UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.05.13 07:31:46 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 107th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 148 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JUNE 3, 2002 No. 70 

House of Representatives 

The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Tuesday, June 4, 2002, at 2 p.m. 

The Senate met at 1 p.m. and was 
called to order by the Hon. CARL LEVIN, 
a Senator from the State of Michigan. 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Lloyd John 
Ogilvie, offered the following prayer: 

Almighty God, who has made politics 
a high calling, we praise You for calling 
the women and men of this Senate 
to the sacred opportunity of developing 
and passing legislation to meet the 
needs of this Nation You have blessed 
so abundantly. As the Senators return 
from recess, renew their sense of mission, 
reignite their passion for patriotism, 
and remind them of their dependence 
on You. Be with them in the demanding 
month ahead. Give them an 
extra measure of endurance as they 
strive for excellence and unity as they 
work together for what’s best for 
America. 

We praise You for the caring friendships 
we develop as we work together 
as a Senate family. Today, we ask for 
comfort and courage for our Sergeant 
at Arms, Al Lenhardt, whose mother, 
Mary Catherine, recently graduated to 
heaven. And we ask for Your healing 
and hope for his sister, Michelle, who is 
undergoing cancer treatment. Thank 
You for hearing our prayers for each 
other. Bless our families and loved 
ones. You are our Lord, our Saviour, 
Healer, Comforter, and Friend. Amen. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
The Honorable CARL LEVIN led the 
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows: 
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Repub-

Senate 

MONDAY, JUNE 3, 2002 

lic for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

APPOINTMENT OF ACTING 

PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will please read a communication 
to the Senate from the President pro 
tempore (Mr. BYRD.) 

The legislative clerk read the following 
letter: 

U.S. SENATE, 
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE, 
Washington, DC, June 3, 2002. 
To the Senate: 

Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3, 
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby 
appoint the Honorable CARL LEVIN, a Senator 
from the State of Michigan, to perform 
the duties of the Chair. 

ROBERT C. BYRD, 

President pro tempore. 

Mr. LEVIN thereupon assumed the 
chair as Acting President pro tempore. 

f 

RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
leadership time is reserved. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE ACTING 
MAJORITY LEADER 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Nevada. 

f 

SCHEDULE 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Further 
Recovery From and Response To Ter


rorist Attacks on the United States is 
now in the Senate, having come from 
the House. Senator BYRD and Senator 
COCHRAN, who will manage this bill 
today, will be here at 2 o’clock to 
present their opening statements. We 
hope Senators who have amendments 
will be in a position to offer those. 

Senator BYRD and Senator STEVENS, 
the two managers of the bill, have suggested 
we have a cutoff time for the offering 
of amendments tomorrow. We 
will work toward that goal after conferring 
more with the two managers of 
the bill. 

Concerning this very important legislation, 
we need to move to it, as we 
will, and also move through it as 
quickly as we can. 

LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT ENHANCEMENT ACT 

This week sometime we will also be 
able to deliberate on S. 625, the Local 
Law Enforcement Enhancement Act, 
which is commonly referred to as the 
hate crimes bill. Senate consideration 
of this legislation is much needed and 
really long overdue. It demonstrates 
once again, I believe, the change that 
has taken place in this body since Senator 
DASCHLE took over as majority 
leader. We are moving this legislation 
for that fact alone. We would not be on 
this legislation but for the fact that 
Senator DASCHLE is the majority leader. 


The present law does not respond to 
hate crimes motivated by a person’s 
gender, sexual orientation, or disability. 
In fact, one of these characteristics, 
sexual orientation, is the third 
leading motivation behind hate crimes. 

By now everyone has heard of some 
of the most egregious cases of hate 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S4883 


S4884 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

crimes, national in scope. Happening 
just a few years ago, the one we still 
talk about is Matthew Shephard, a 
very small man in stature. He was a 
student at the University of Wyoming. 
He was gay. He was severely beaten 
and left for dead, simply because of his 
being gay. 

James Byrd, Jr., an African-American 
man, was dragged to his death behind 
a pickup truck in Texas. This man 
was walking home, simply walking on 
the street, when these evil people 
grabbed him, beat him, tied him to the 
back of a pickup, and dragged him 
through the streets while he was still 
alive. 

Unfortunately, these appalling tragedies 
were not isolated events. Incidents 
continue to be reported all over this 
country. Nevada is a small State population-
wise—big in area—but even in 
the State of Nevada we have witnessed 
acts of hatred. A 20-year-old man from 
Las Vegas struck a Japanese-American 
girl in the head at a skinhead party. 
She just happened to be there. Someone 
set a black family’s home on fire in 
Carson City and wrote the words 
‘‘White Power’’ and other racial slurs 
at the scene. Vandals spray-painted a 
swastika and other graffiti on a Roman 
Catholic church in Henderson, NV. 
Three residents of Las Vegas burned a 
cross on the lawn of a black family’s 
home. Two white men attacked two 
Muslim men with a baseball bat outside 
of a mosque in Sparks. 

Condemning these acts is important, 
but it is not enough. We must act with 
unbending resolve to legislate against 
them. These types of crimes not only 
infringe on the victims’ rights, they 
erode people’s sense of security and 
self-worth and confidence in our system. 


This country was founded on the 
principle that there should be liberty 
and justice for all. When perpetrators 
of hate crimes target anyone, they are 
really targeting against all of us and 
the principles upon which our diverse 
Nation was founded. We need those 
principles to continue to prevail. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, there 
will now be a period for the transaction 
of morning business, not to extend beyond 
the hour of 2 p.m., with Senators 
permitted to speak therein for up to 10 
minutes each. 

Mr. REID. I suggest the absence of a 
quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


RECESS 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Senate stand in 
recess until the hour of 2 p.m. today. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 1:09 p.m., recessed until 2:01 p.m. and 
reassembled when called to order by 
the Acting President pro tempore. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Nevada. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, it is my understanding 
the supplemental appropriations 
bill has been received from 
the House. Is this the appropriate time 
to report the bill? 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Will the Senator withhold for one 
moment. 

f 

CONCLUSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Morning business is closed. 

f 

SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS 
ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2002 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
Senate will now proceed to the consideration 
of H.R. 4775, which the clerk 
will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 4775) making supplemental appropriations 
for further recovery from and 
response to terrorist attacks on the United 
States for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2002, and for other purposes. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
text of S. 2551 is inserted in lieu thereof 
and considered as original text. 

The Senator from Nevada. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, in September 
of 1862, in a sun-drenched cornfield 
near the Mason-Dixon Line, a devastation 
called Antietam happened. 
Twelve thousand young Americans on 
each side perished. Antietam is a name 
forever soaked in blood. It has come to 
symbolize the tragic nature of a domestic 
conflict called the Civil War—or the 
War Between the States. 

Now this Nation is challenged once 
again by war on our own shores. Another 
tragic loss of life on another 
sunny morning in the September of another 
century has recalled for us the 
special trauma of war on our homeland. 
This time the violence on our 
own land has roots in a cultural clash 
of worldwide proportions. It is, at once, 
a war at home and a war abroad. 

While we must fight on both fronts, 
these are conflicts of a very different 
nature. The brave men and women who 
serve in our military volunteer for that 
duty. They have the unquestioned support 
of the American people and, 
through the American people, of their 
Government. They fight aided by technology 
which is the envy of the world. 
Our military personnel accept and understand 
the discipline imposed on 
them while they serve for the cause of 
freedom. The weapons of destruction 
which engage them are easily discernible 
and their lethal potential is well 
understood. 

The war on our own shores is much 
more complex. We know that terrorists 
live among us and that they traverse 
our open borders with relative ease. We 
know the new enemy among us prefers 
weapons fashioned from the ordinary 
infrastructure of modern life—trucks, 
trains, planes, mail delivery systems, 
ports, energy sources, cyberspace, 
spent nuclear material. All of these, we 
are told, can be easily adapted to cause 
death and destruction, fear and panic. 
At home, our technology is deficient, 
with outdated computers in key government 
agencies unable to easily 
transmit vital information back and 
forth. In April and May, the Appropriations 
Committee heard testimony that 
indicate that our adversaries could 
cripple the U.S. economy without great 
difficulty or enormous cost. Yet we do 
not know much more. We do not know 
where this new shadowy enemy will 
strike, or when. 

Within the past few weeks, the concern 
seems to have grown. The Vice 
President has warned that a strike is 
‘‘almost certain.’’ Secretary of Defense 
Donald Rumsfeld has stated that it is 
inevitable that terrorists will acquire 
weapons of mass destruction. Secretary 
of State Colin Powell has warned that 
‘‘terrorists are trying every way they 
can’’ to get nuclear, chemical, or biological 
weapons. Security has been 
tightened around New York City landmarks. 
The FBI has warned that sites, 
such as the Statue of Liberty and 
Brooklyn Bridge, might be attacked. 

With all of these warnings in mind, 
and with a realization of the many 
gaps in our homeland security network, 
the men and women of this Congress 
have an obligation to take immediate 
steps to protect American lives 
and to try to prevent future tragedies 
such as the one we witnessed last September. 


After several days of hearings by the 
Senate Appropriations Committee on 
the urgent supplemental request for defense 
and homeland security, what 
emerges is a picture of a nation conflicted. 
While united in the goal of 
fighting terrorism, we are conflicted 
about how to do so, how to go about it. 

Finite resources must be stretched to 
fulfill the mission of a military on a 
worldwide hunt for terrorists and a less 
defined, but just as urgent, need to protect 
our people here at home, which 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4885 

must be executed by layers of bureaucrats 
responding to hundreds, if not 
thousands, of vulnerabilities. 

When the North wrestled the South 
for the soul of this Nation in the 19th 
century, America stood at a crossroads. 
Then, as now, transcendent and 
solid leadership was essential to our ultimate 
success. 

In the 1860s, this Nation was blessed, 
as it often has been in its brief history, 
with a gifted leader, able to quiet the 
squabbling generals and calm the bureaucratic 
struggles that threatened to 
consume his single-minded effort to 
preserve the Nation and restore the 
peace. Abraham Lincoln was a giant. 
He saved the Nation. 

But what we as leaders are now faced 
with may well be without parallel in 

U.S. history. I say that because the 
events surrounding September 11 have 
underscored a revolutionary blurring of 
the lines between domestic danger and 
international danger for our people. We 
can no longer sit safely in our large 
and prosperous country, confident that 
we need not fear foreign attack. True, 
our military might on the battlefield is 
the envy of the world, but the enemy 
now lives and works among us. 
He is here. He crosses our borders 
with relative ease. He boards our airplanes. 
He rides our trains and hides in 
our ships. No longer is the enemy only 
on a far away and distant foreign 
shore. 

The question for all of the leaders of 
this Government is, Can we adapt? Can 
we restructure where we need to do so? 
Can we even fully comprehend at this 
point the intertwining nature of the 
dual conflict in which we find ourselves? 
Can we sustain military action 
on so many fronts and not shortchange 
a defense of the homeland? Can we be 
steady enough to know that, even if 
public attention strays from the dangers 
here at home, our attention must 
not stray from the dangers here at 
home? In many cases, the answers 
come down to funding questions. 

The Senate Appropriations Committee 
is doing its part. Senator STEVENS 
and I are proud of our record on 
homeland defense. Last fall, we approved 
$10 billion for homeland defense 
programs, $4 billion more than had 
been requested by the President, and 
that $4 billion has made a difference. 

Over 2,200 more INS border agents 
and Customs inspectors are being hired 
on the northern and southern borders; 
the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service is now implementing a system 
for tracking foreign students in this 
country; our police, fire, and medical 
personnel are getting better training, 
better equipment for detecting and responding 
to potential biological, chemical, 
or nuclear attacks; the FBI is hiring 
hundreds of new agents; 750 more 
food inspectors and investigators are 
being hired; the number of ports with 
Food and Drug Administration investigators 
is being doubled; 324 additional 
protective personnel are being hired to 
protect our nuclear weapons complex. 

Additional resources are being spent on 
efforts to destroy or secure nuclear materials 
overseas. 

However, a great deal remains to be 
done. In recent weeks, the Appropriations 
Committee in the Senate held a 
series of hearings on homeland defense. 
Senator STEVENS and I joined in identifying 
and inviting the witnesses. We 
heard from terrorism experts about the 
continuing threat to our Nation. We 
heard from Governors. We heard from 
mayors. We heard from first respond-
ers—our police, fire, and medical personnel. 
They all testified to a continuing 
need for resources to expand 
our capacity to prevent, detect, and respond 
to terrorist attacks. 

We also took testimony from seven 
Cabinet officers and the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency. Our former 
colleagues, Sam Nunn and Warren Rudman, 
testified on the very real threat 
this Nation faces. The compelling message 
from our witnesses was that we 
need to do more and that we need to do 
more now. They also stressed the need 
for better Federal coordination and 
clearer standards for such efforts as securing 
our ports and making sure we 
have interoperable equipment that will 
allow our first responders to communicate 
with each other. 

The legislation before the Senate 
today, which totals $31 billion, fully 
funds the President’s $14 billion request 
for defense programs. It provides 
over $8.3 billion for homeland defense 
programs. It provides $5.5 billion to 
augment the Federal response to New 
York City in response to the events of 
September 11. It approves $1 billion for 
the Pell grant shortfall. It includes $417 
million for veterans’ medical care. In 
addition, the bill includes $1.1 billion of 
mandatory spending for the Veterans 
Compensation and Pension Program. 

This bill contains $8.3 billion for critical 
homeland security efforts, efforts 
that we should not delay until the next 
fiscal year or the next calendar year. 

Within the homeland security package, 
more than $1 billion is directed to 
first responder programs. These are the 
people at the local level. They are the 
people who would be first on the scene. 
This funding will help to address those 
gaps that can endanger lives in case of 
an emergency. 

For instance, the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency has received 
grant requests from 18,000 fire departments 
across the country, requests 
that total more than $3 billion. The 
Senate legislation would begin to address 
this critical need for training and 
equipment. So we have equipment 
funds providing $300 million for our 
firefighters. 

Another $200 million is in the legislation 
to improve the ability for first responders 
to talk with each other. Currently, 
too many local police and fire 
departments have radio systems that 
are incompatible. They simply cannot 
talk with each other when responding 
to a crisis. 

The Appropriations Committee has 
included funding for the National Insti


tute of Standards and Technology to 
establish uniform standards for inter-
operable equipment. We had several 
witnesses who testified to the need for 
such. 

Recently, the Brookings Institution 
released a report critiquing the administration’s 
homeland defense strategy. 
One of the report’s authors, Michael 
O’Hanlon, stated that the threat posed 
by terrorists using cargo containers entering 
our seaports ‘‘may be our single 
greatest vulnerability that we have not 
yet made much progress towards addressing 
in this country.’’ We heard 
from several witnesses to this need. 

To take steps to address this danger, 
the committee has provided $666 million 
for the Coast Guard for port and 
maritime security. This funding would 
expedite vulnerability assessments at 
our Nation’s ports. It would expand the 
number of port strike teams trained to 
respond to biological, chemical, and radiation 
incidents. It would create two 
new maritime safety and security 
teams and purchase homeland security 
response boats, and it would expand 
surface and aviation assets, as well as 
the shore facilities to support them. 

Two hundred million dollars is included 
for port security grants. Fifty 
seven million dollars is provided to the 
Customs Service to improve cargo container 
inspections overseas, and $28 
million is included to improve our 
technology on inspecting cargo containers. 


We cannot ignore looming gaps in 
our homeland security efforts. These 
gaps were exposed during those hearings. 
The committee listened. The 
committee has acted. The committee is 
going to do something about the problems 
that were brought to our attention 
by the witnesses who came before 
the Senate Appropriations Committee. 

That is why this legislation provides 
$387 million for bioterrorism, including 
funds to improve our toxicology and infectious 
disease lab capacity at the 
Centers for Disease Control. 

Our committee, the Senate Appropriations 
Committee, is responding to 
the needs of the country as expressed 
by the men and women who appeared 
recently before the Senate Appropriations 
Committee in those very important 
hearings. Congress has approved a 
$3 billion bioterrorism response authorization 
bill. This funding will move us 
toward meeting that bill’s goal. 

The supplemental bill provides $200 
million for security at our nuclear 
weapons facilities and nuclear labs. 
The bill provides $154 million for cybersecurity 
with a special emphasis on 
helping the private sector defend itself 
from attack. 

No witness before that committee 
was more impressive than the distinguished 
Senator from Utah, BOB BENNETT, 
who testified as to the need for 
the private sector to be prepared 
against attack. He emphasized the dangers 
that confront the Nation. So the 
committee has responded by, as I say, 
appropriating $154 million for cyber-security. 



S4886 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

Then there is in the bill $125 million 
for border security, including resources 
for Immigration and Naturalization 
Service facilities on the borders of the 
Nation, and for deploying the system 
for rapid response criminal background 
checks to 30 more ports. 

The bill provides $100 million for nuclear 
nonproliferation programs. The 
bill provides $265 million for airport security, 
including $100 million to help 
airports meet the new Federal standards 
for airport security. 

The bill before the Senate provides 
$200 million to the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture for food safety labs, additional 
food inspectors, and for vulnerability 
assessments for rural water systems. 


The bill before the Senate provides 
$100 million for the EPA to complete 
vulnerability assessments on the security 
of our water systems. 

The bill before the Senate today provides 
$286 million for other homeland 
defense items such as Secret Service 
efforts to combat electronic crime, FBI 
counterterrorism efforts, and funds for 
the Justice Department to develop an 
integrated information system. 

The bill fully funds the President’s 
$4.4 billion request for the new transportation 
security administration. 

The bill includes $1.95 billion for 
international programs. We have included 
$200 million for Israel and $50 
million for disaster assistance for the 
Palestinians. 

The legislation contains $1.069 billion 
for nonemergency programs, with offsets 
to pay for them. The major items 
include $450 million for election reform 
grants, $100 million for the global AIDS 
trust fund, and $75 million for WIC. The 
bill also provides $110 million for flood 
relief and $55 million for Amtrak repairs 
and security. 

I could go on, but Senators and the 
American people already know we are 
vulnerable, and in many instances they 
know where we are vulnerable: Anthrax, 
smallpox, dirty bombs, border 
security, nuclear labs, powerplants, 
cyber-security, food safety, airport security, 
drinking water. 

So we do understand the gaps in our 
security structures. If we know where 
those gaps are, we can be sure terrorists 
know where they are. 

Many decisions, large and small, lie 
ahead. One thing is certain: We cannot 
afford delay. So I urge Senators to 
offer amendments, debate, vote, and 
help members of the Appropriations 
Committee expedite this much-needed 
assistance for our Nation. We say, 
‘‘May God bless America,’’ but we can 
do a lot to help God to bless America. 

We must quickly enact this bipartisan 
effort to bolster our weaknesses, 
address our shortfalls, and protect 
American lives. 

I yield the floor and suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. DORGAN). 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent the order for the 
quorum call be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent the Senate now proceed 
to a period of morning business with 
Senators allowed to speak therein for a 
period not to exceed 10 minutes each. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

CONGRATULATIONS TO JUDE 

LILLY 
S Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire. Mr. 
President, today I congratulate Mrs. 
Jude Lilly for receiving the Wildwood 
Programs Volunteer of the Year 
Award. 

Jude has worked for Wildwood programs 
for more than fourteen years. In 
that time she has selflessly dedicated 
herself to help enable children and 
adults with neurologically-based learning 
disabilities, autism, and other developmental 
disorders to lead independent, 
productive and fulfilling lives. 

The presentation of this award recognizes 
Jude for all that she does outside 
of the office as a volunteer. Two years 
ago she began the Pet Therapy Program. 
The program involves disabled 
young adults taking dogs to nursing 
homes to visit with senior citizens. As 
the creator of the program, Jude has 
created a means by which these young 
adults can give back to their community. 
The program brings immense 
value to all parties involved as they 
benefit from the time they spend with 
one another. 

Jude’s hard work is a tribute to her 
profession. Her ability, dedication, and 
desire to serve all members of the community 
is commendable. It is an honor 
and a privilege for me to congratulate 
her for receiving this award.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO RADIO HOST MIKE 

MARTEL 
S Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire. Mr. 
President, today I honor a veteran of 
the radio broadcast industry, Mr. Mike 
Martel. He will be sorely missed on the 
‘‘WOKQ Morning Waking Crew.’’ 

As a Dover native, Mike has been in 
the New Hampshire broadcasting field 
for 30 years. The WOKQ morning show 
has received two nominations in as 
many years from the Country Music 
Association in the small market category 
for best on air personalities. The 
award winning WOKQ is heard daily in 
New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts, 
Vermont and Canada. Mike’s witty 
humor and sense for broadcasting lead 
him to the creation of the wildly famous 
‘‘Joke du Jour.’’ Mike’s program 
is at the top of my list for radio listening; 
the great music and great conversation 
make for a favorite. The airwaves 
of New Hampshire will never be 
the same without Mike. 

After retiring on May 31 this year, 
Mike plans on spending more time with 

his wife Joanne and will continue serving 
the community by volunteering for 
local charities and organizations. It is 
truly an honor to serve Mike Martel in 
the U.S. Senate.S 

f 

STUDENTS OF MOULTONBOROUGH 
ACADEMY 

S Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire. Mr. 
President, today I honor the ingenuity 
of the ten member biology team from 
Moultonborough Academy upon wining 
the national portion of a three-part 
competition in the ‘‘Future Car Congress’’ 
event. 

The direction these students are taking 
is exactly what is needed to ensure 
the conservation of our environment. 
These new forms of fuel that are being 
developed will be in high demand in the 
near future. 

These 10 bright students are following 
and perhaps even forging the future 
of fuel technology. The pressing 
issues that face us as a civilization will 
be drastically and positively affected 
by the advancements from young people 
like these. It is a wonderful thing 
to see students working so diligently 
on projects that have the potential to 
benefit all of humanity. I commend 
these young people on a great accomplishment 
and encourage them to continue 
in their pursuit of a better technology. 


It is an honor representing Michelle 
Merritz, Jackie Carr, Kristen Berry, 
Christine Adamczyk, Sarah Nelson, 
MaryAnn Remson, Jeff Pelligrino, 
Bryan Burbank, Casey Doyle, Katelyn 
Adams, and teacher Dave Severance in 
the U.S. Senate.S 

f 

VETERAN MAJOR MAURICE 
DINNERMAN RECEIVES HONORS 

S Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire. Mr. 
President, today I pay tribute to Major 
Maurice Dinnerman for his service in 
the United States Armed Forces. The 
Major’s bravery and dedication to this 
country are examples of his exemplary 
character and worthiness for recognition. 


For his outstanding service in the 
Army, from January 10, 1942 until February 
4, 1946, Major Dinnerman will be 
receiving the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign 
Medal with one bronze star, World War 
II Victory Medal, Philippine Liberation 
Ribbon, and Honorable Service Lapel 
Button. It is doubtless that without 
the efforts of men like Major 
Dinnerman Americans would be living 
a vastly different life. The dedication 
and heroism displayed is a small indication 
of the character of this man. 
We, as a nation, are indebted to Major 
Dinnerman. We enjoy many freedoms 
and an enriching life because of the 
sacrifices he made. It is seldom that we 
take the time to honor these forgotten 
heroes. America is what it is today because 
of the bravery of this man. 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4887 

It is my distinct honor and privilege 
to thank and commend Major Maurice 
Dinnerman on his many accomplishments 
in serving the U.S. Army.S 

f 

VETERAN JAMES COSTA HONORED 

FOR SERVICE 
S Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire. Mr. 
President, today I pay a very deserved 
tribute to Veteran James Costa for his 
service in the U.S. Army. The courage 
and bravery shown in the face of battle 
exemplify the spirit of a true American 
hero. 

James Costa entered the service in 
July of 1943 and fought in the Asiatic 
Pacific Theater where he was wounded 
in the line of duty by Japanese rifle 
fire while sweeping caves. His heroic 
service was concluded in January of 
1946 at the conclusion of the war. The 
freedom Costa gave while defending his 
country is commendable and worthy of 
praise. It is doubtless that the sacrifices 
he made changed the outcome of 
the war and the future of the world. 

Veteran Costa received many awards 
while serving in the Armed Forces including 
a Combat Infantry Badge, Purple 
Heart, Bronze Star, American Defense, 
American Campaign, Asiatic Pacific 
Campaign, World War II Victory 
Medal, Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle, 
and Good Conduct to name just a few. 
Although many years removed from 
service, Costa still remains active in 
the support of his fellow comrades as 
seen by his life membership in the Disabled 
American Veterans, Veterans of 
Foreign Wars, and past Commander of 
Post 31 Penacook American Legion. 

I commend Veteran James Costa on 
his selfless service in the United States 
Army and on his bravery during a Japanese 
attack in which he was wounded. 
America is indebted to you and your 
family. It is truly an honor to serve 
you in the U.S. Senate.S 

f 

VETERAN PHILIP J. PLOURDE 

RECEIVES HONORS 
S Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire. Mr. 
President, today I pay tribute to Philip 

J. Plourde, a veteran of the United 
States Armed Forces. His outstanding 
service is what has provided Americans 
with the freedom we now enjoy. 
While serving in the U.S. Army, Mr. 
Plourde received a certificate of recognition 
for his service during the Cold 
War. His dedication to the freedom and 
protection of our nation deserves the 
praise of every person in the U.S. Giving 
of himself for the benefit of those 
he never met is only an indication of 
his exemplary character. It is seldom 
that we take the time to thank and 
honor those who serve us. Without the 
heroism and selflessness of Plourde and 
others like him Americans would be 
living very differently today. We live 
today because of his service then. The 
time is long past to individually honor 
this man. 

I commend Mr. Philip J. Plourde on 
his many achievements in receiving 

the Good Conduct Medal, Sharpshooter 
Badge with Carbine, and Marksman 
Badge with Rifle. Thank you Mr. 
Plourde, with heartfelt appreciation 
for your personal sacrifice in the U.S. 
Armed Services. 

It is a great honor to represent you 
in the U.S. Senate.S 

f 

VETERAN JOSEPH EDWARD 

SCHULLERY RECEIVES HONORS 
S Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire. Mr. 
President, today I honor Staff Sergeant 
Joseph Edward Schullery for his bravery 
and sacrifice of his own life in the 
Pacific Theater. His offering of life is 
more than anyone can ask of another 
human being. 

Making the ultimate sacrifice to die 
for his country Staff Sergeant 
Schullery is a man worthy of the greatest 
honor. Serving from October 6, 1941 
to July 11, 1945, Staff Sergeant 
Schullery’s sister will be receiving a 
certificate of Service, a copy of the 
American Battle Monuments, and a list 
of casualties on behalf of her fallen 
brother. 

The outstanding conduct and character 
Staff Sergeant Schullery displayed 
is recognized with a Purple 
Heart, Good Conduct Medal, American 
Defense Service Medal, Asiatic-Pacific 
Campaign Medal with one bronze service 
star, World War II Victory Medal, 
and Honorable Service Lapel Button. 
There is no doubt in my mind that 
Americans would be living a vastly different 
life had it not been for men like 
Staff Sergeant Schullery. The nation 
honors and thanks this man for making 
a positive impact on the lives of so 
many Americans. It is doubtless that 
the suffering he endured was purely for 
our gain. 

It is my honor to have the privilege 
to commend and thank Staff Sergeant 
Joseph Schullery for his outstanding 
sacrifice on behalf of all Americans.S 

f 

NEW HAMPSHIRE EXCELLENCE IN 

EDUCATION AWARDS 
S Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire. Mr. 
President, today I pay tribute to the 
outstanding successes of the recipients 
of the New Hampshire Excellence in 
Education Awards. This annual event, 
which began in 1994, recognizes the 
hard work of teachers from throughout 
the State. 

This serves as one of the largest ceremonies 
acknowledging the positive difference 
these professionals are making 
in the lives of students. Praiseworthy 
public schools, programs, and educators 
are used as incentives for others. 
These individuals demonstrate 
their worthiness in six areas: curriculum, 
teaching/learning process, 
student achievement, community/parental 
involvement, leadership/decision-
making, and climate. 

Teachers with these qualities are exactly 
what is needed to guide our 
youth today. With the attitude and 
hard work brought to the table by 

these individuals I am confident that 
they will provide the best education 
possible lending to a spectacular future 
for our children. It is an honor and 
privilege to serve these individuals in 
the United States Senate. 

I commend the following recipients: 
Art Educator of the Year—Trina Wick-
Patnaude; NH Business Education Association 
Achievement Award—Patricia 
Tucker; Middle School Principal of 
the Year—Linda Raines; Elementary 
School Principal of the Year—Kenneth 
Williams; Assistant Principal of the 
Year—Carol Mack; NH Teacher of the 
Year—Nancy B. Molver; NH Technology 
Education Association Teacher 
of the Year—Mark Romano; NH Technology 
Education Assoc. Program Excellence 
Award—Hudson Memorial 
School; NH Association of World Languages 
Teacher of Excellence Award— 
Peter L. Lallberte; NH School Nurse of 
the Year—Maureen Krustapentus; 
Treat Award—Katherine R. Morgan; 
Christa McAuliffe Sabbatical Award— 
Katherine R. Morgan; NH Education 
Media Association Service Award— 
Nancy J. Keane; Driver Education 
Teachers’ Association Teacher of the 
Year—Thomas Alello; NH School Psychologist 
of the Year—Barbara 
Cascadden; D.A.R.E. Officer of the 
Year—Ronald W. Ketchle; D.A.R.E. Officer 
of the Year—Howard J. Beaudry, 
Jr.; NH Assn. of School Administrators 
Outstanding Service Award-Mark R. 
Masterson; Superintendent of the 
Year—Darrell J. Lockwood; English 
Teacher of the Year—Mark Holding. 

NH Environmental Teachers of the 
Year: Elementary Level—Constance 
Roberge; Secondary Level—Kathe 
Cusson; Informal Science Category— 
Sandra W. Martin. 

Presidential Award for Excellence in 
Mathematics: Elementary Level— 
Catherine A. Stavenger; Secondary 
Level—Catherine Brownrigg Burns. 

Presidential Award for Excellence in 
Science: Secondary Level—Diane B. 
Savage. 

NH Council for the Social Studies: 
Elementary Level—Susan M. Frost; 
Secondary Level—Theodore R. Miller; 
NH School Counselor of the Year— 
Allan LaFleur; NH Assoc. for Supervision 
& Curriculum Development 
Award—Mary Elizabeth McNeil; NH 
School Board Association School Board 
Excellence Award—Laconia School 
Board; Special Education Administrator 
of the Year—Colleen Bovi; Distinguished 
Music Educator of the 
Year—Benjamin Greene; Distinguished 
Music Educator of the Year—Carole 
Blake; Educator of the Gifted Award— 
Francia Barksdale; Pat Keyes Technology 
Educator of the Year—Joshua 
Gajowski; NH Society for Technology 
in Education Impact Award—Daniel F. 
Hudkins; NH Elementary School of Excellence 
Award—Belmont Elementary 
School; NH Middle School of Excellence 
Award—Merricmack Valley Middle 
School; NH Secondary School of 
Excellence Award—Hillsboro-Deering 
High School.S 


S4888 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

TRIBUTE TO 20 YEARS OF 
MILITARY SERVICE 

S Mr. MILLER. Mr. President, I rise to 
recognize Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth 

A. Judge, U.S. Marine Corps, on her upcoming 
retirement from active duty. 
Upon her retirement on August 31, 2002, 
Lieutenant Colonel Judge will have 
served our great Nation and the Marine 
Corps for more than 20 years. 
Lieutenant Colonel Judge is a career 
public affairs officer, and is known as 
the preeminent expert within her field. 
She has been assigned to various locations, 
bases, and stations in the United 
States and overseas, to include an extended 
tour as the 31st Commandant’s 
personal public affairs officer. Most recently, 
she served as the deputy director 
of public affairs for the entire Marine 
Corps, a position normally filled 
by a full-bird colonel. Lieutenant Colonel 
Judge’s straightforward, no-nonsense 
approach and uncanny media instincts 
are renowned throughout the 
Headquarters Marine Corps Staff, and 
the Department of Defense public affairs 
office. There is no doubt that her 
efforts over the years have been instrumental 
in helping the news media and 
the public to better understand the Marine 
Corps’ roles and missions. Although 
she would be too humble to 
make this claim, Lieutenant Colonel 
Judge should justifiably receive a degree 
of credit for the positive image 
the Corps enjoys today. 

The Marine Corps will sorely miss 
Lieutenant Colonel Judge’s unrivaled 
professional knowledge and superior 
work ethic. Her steadfast dedication to 
Corps and country is uncompromising 
and impressive, and her unique talents 
will not be easily replaced. 

I wish Betsy and her husband, Marine 
Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Judge, all 
the best as they embark on a new life 
chapter. Semper Fidelis.S 

f 

MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE 

Under the authority of the Senate of 
January 3, 2001, the Secretary of the 
Senate, on May 29, 2002, during the recess 
of the Senate, received a message 
from the House of Representatives announcing 
that the House has agreed to 
the following concurrent resolution, 
without amendment: 

S. Con. Res. 118. Concurrent resolution providing 
for a conditional adjournment or recess 
of the Senate and a conditional adjournment 
of the House of Representatives. 
f 

ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED 

The message also announced that the 
Speaker has signed the following enrolled 
bills: 

H.R. 4592. An act to name the chapel located 
in the national cemetery in Los Angeles, 
California, as the ‘‘Bob Hope Veterans 
Chapel’’. 
H.R. 4608. An act to name the Department 
of Veterans Affairs Medical and Regional Office 
Center in Wichita, Kansas, as the ‘‘Robert 
J. Dole Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical and Regional Office Center’’. 
H.R. 4782. An act to extend the authority of 
the Export-Import Bank until June 14, 2002. 
Under the authority of the Senate of 
January 3, 2001, the enrolled bills were 
signed by the President pro tempore 
(Mr. BYRD) on May 29, 2002. 
At 1:04 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Ms. Niland, one of its reading clerks 
announced that the House has passed 
the following bill, in which it requests 
the concurrence of the Senate: 

H.R. 4775. An act making supplemental appropriations 
for further recovery from and 
response to terrorist attacks on the United 
States for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2002, and for other purposes. 
f 

MEASURES PLACED ON THE 
CALENDAR 

The following bill was read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and placed on the calendar: 

H.R. 4775. An act making supplemental appropriations 
for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2002, and for other purposes: 
f 

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
which were referred as indicated: 


EC–7209. A communication from the Regulatory 
Specialist, Executive Secretariat, Office 
of Hearings and Appeals, Department of 
the Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Trust Management 
Reform: Probate of Indian Trust Estates’’ 
(RIN1090–AA78) received on May 22, 
2002; to the Committee on Indian Affairs. 

EC–7210. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Surface Mining, Department of 
the Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘West Virginia 
Regulatory Program’’ (WV–094–FOR) received 
on May 23, 2002; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–7211. A communication from the Director, 
Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the Annual Wiretap Report for 2001; to 
the Committee on the Judiciary. 

EC–7212. A communication from the Administrator, 
Tobacco Programs, Agricultural 
Marketing Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Tobacco Inspection; 
Mandatory Grading’’ (Doc. No. TB–02– 

11) received on May 23, 2002; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 
EC–7213. A communication from the Principal 
Deputy Associate Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Fludiozonil; Re-establishment of Tolerance 
for Emergency Exemptions’’ 
(FRL7176–8) received on May 23, 2002; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–7214. A communication from the Fiscal 
Assistant Secretary, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
2001 annual report on material violations or 
suspected material violations of regulations 
relating to Treasury auctions and other offerings 
of securities upon the issuance of 
such securities by Treasury; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–7215. A communication from the Fiscal 
Assistant Secretary, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, a 
report relative to any significant modifications 
to the auction process for issuing 
United States Treasury obligations; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–7216. A communication from the Deputy 
Chief Counsel, Foreign Assets Control, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Western Balkans Transactions Regulations’’ 
received on May 24, 2002; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–7217. A communication from the Fiscal 
Assistant Secretary, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
2001 annual report to provide that no government 
securities broker or dealer may receive 
any advantage, favorable treatment, or other 
benefit in connection with the purchase upon 
issuance of securities issued by the Secretary 
of the Treasury; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–7218. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and 
Parks, Fish and Wildlife Service, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered 
and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 
Designation of Critical Habitat for 
Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens (Monterey 
Spineflower)’’ (RIN1018–AH04) received on 
May 22, 2002; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–7219. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and 
Parks, Fish and Wildlife Service, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered 
and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 
Critical Habitat Designation for Chorizanthe 
robusta var. hartwegii (Scotts Valley 
Spineflower)’’ (RIN1018–AH82) received on 
May 22, 2002; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–7220. A communication from the Principal 
Deputy Associate Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Fiscal 
Year 2003 Chesapeake Bay Program Activity 
Grants’’; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–7221. A communication from the Principal 
Deputy Associate Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air 
Quality Implementation Plans; State of 
Maryland; Revised Definitions and Record-
keeping of Provisions’’ (FRL7210–1) received 
on May 23, 2002; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–7222. A communication from the Principal 
Deputy Associate Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Implementation 
Plans and Operating Permit Program; 
State of Nebraska’’ (FRL7218–2) received 
on May 23, 2002; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–7223. A communication from the Principal 
Deputy Associate Administrator of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Implementation 
Plans; Illinois’’ (FRL7212–9) received 
on May 23, 2002; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–7224. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Kanawha River 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4889 

Miles 56.0 to 57.0, Charleston, West Virginia’’ 
((RIN2115–AA97)(2002–0081)) received on May 
23, 2002; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7225. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Port of St. Petersburg, 
St. Petersburg Florida’’ ((RIN2115– 
AA97)(2002–0080)) received on May 23, 2002; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–7226. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Sandy Hook Bay, 
Highlands, NJ’’ ((RIN2115–AA97)(2002–0079)) 
received on May 23, 2002; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7227. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Lake Champlain 
Challenge, Cumberland Bay, NY’’ ((RIN2115– 
AA97)(2002–0078)) received on May 23, 2002; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–7228. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Oceanside Harbor, 
CA’’ ((RIN2115–AA97)(2002–0077)) received on 
May 23, 2002; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7229. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Chelsea River Safety 
Zone for McArdle Bridge Repairs, Chelsea 
River, East Boston, Massachusetts’’ 
((RIN2115–AA97)(2002–0076)) received on May 
23, 2002; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7230. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Portland Rose Festival 
on Willamette River’’ ((RIN2115– 
AA97)(2002–0075)) received on May 23, 2002 ; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–7231. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Ohio River Miles 

307.0 to 308.0, Huntington, West Virginia’’ 
((RIN2115–AA97)(2002–0074)) received on May 
23, 2002; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 
EC–7232. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Ohio River Miles 

355.5 to 356.5, Portsmouth, Ohio’’ ((RIN2115– 
AA97)(2002–0073)) received on May 23, 2002; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 
EC–7233. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Draw


bridge Regulations: Long Island, New York 
Inland Waterway from East Rockaway Inlet 
to Shinnecock Canal, NY’’ ((RIN2115– 
AE47)(2002–0047)) received on May 23, 2002; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–7234. A communication from the Attorney-
Advisor, National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Technical Amendments 
on Air Brake Systems; Final Rule’’ 
(RIN2127–AI48) received on May 23, 2002; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–7235. A communication from the Chief 
of Regulations and Administrative Law, 
United States Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Special 
Anchorage Areas/Anchorage Grounds Regulations; 
Chicago Harbor, Chicago, Illinois’’ 
((RIN2115–AA98)(2002–0001)) received on May 
23, 2002; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7236. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or services sold commercially 
under a contract in the amount of 
$50,000,000 or more to Egypt; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7237. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to Russia; to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7238. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to Russia, 
Ukraine, Norway and Cayman Islands; to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7239. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract for the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to Japan and 
South Korea; to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations. 

EC–7240. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed manufacturing license 
agreement with Italy; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7241. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles to India; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7242. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles to India; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7243. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 

certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to Japan; to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7244. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to Mexico; to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7245. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to the United 
Kingdom; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–7246. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed Manufacturing 
License Agreement with Japan; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7247. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to Japan; to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7248. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles to Pakistan; to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7249. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to the Dominican 
Republic; to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations. 

EC–7250. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to Japan; to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7251. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles to India; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7252. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles to India; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7253. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles to India; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7254. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 


S4890 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles to India; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7255. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to the United 
Kingdom; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–7256. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to the 
Arms Export Control Act, the report of a 
certification of a proposed license for the export 
of defense articles or defense services 
sold commercially under a contract in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more to Denmark; to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–7257. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Coordinated Issue: United Kingdom 
Windfall Tax’’ (UILN 901.12–00) received on 
May 17, 2002; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7258. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Bureau of Labor Statistics Price 
Indexes for Department Stores—April 2002’’ 
(Rev. Rul. 2002–37) received on May 17, 2002; 
to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7259. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Special Deemed Substantiation 
Rule for Employers in the Pipeline Construction 
Industry’’ (Rev. Proc. 2002–41) received 
on May 17, 2002; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–7260. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Payments to Employees for Equipment 
They Are Required to Provide as a 
Condition of Employment Are Wages for 
Federal Employment Tax Purposes, Unless 
Paid Under an Accountable Plan’’ (Rev. Rul. 
2002–35) received on May 17, 2002; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–7261. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Notice 2002–41’’ (NOT–160700–01) received 
on May 17, 2002; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–7262. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Certain Transfers of Property to 
Regulated Investment Companies [RICs] and 
Real Estate Investment Trusts [REITs]’’ 
(RIN1545–BA21; TD8975) received on May 17, 
2002; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7263. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Rev. Rul. 2002–9; Impact Fees’’ 
(RR–154808–01) received on May 17, 2002; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7264. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Modification of Rev. Rul. 98–1’’ 
(Rev. Rul. 2001–51) received on May 23, 2002; 
to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7265. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Determination of Interest Rates, 
Quarter Beginning January 1, 2002’’ (Rev. 
Rul. 2001–63) received on May 23, 2002; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–7266. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Recordkeeping and Reporting for 
Qualified Tuition Plans’’ (Notice 2001–81) received 
on May 23, 2002; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–7267. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘2002–2003 Guidance Priority List 
Comments’’ (Notice 2002–22) received on May 
23, 2002; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7268. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Applicable Federal Rates—April 
2002’’ (Rev. Rul. 2002–17) received on May 23, 
2002; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7269. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Undivided Fractional Interest in 
Real Estate’’ (Rev. Proc. 2002–22) received on 
May 23, 2002; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7270. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Five-year Net Operating Loss 
Carryback’’ (Rev. Proc. 2002–40) received on 
May 23, 2002; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7271. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Taxpayer Identification Number 
Rule where Taxpayer Claims Treaty Rate 
and is Entitled to an Unexpected Payment’’ 
((RIN1545–BA38)(REG 159079–01)) received on 
May 23, 2002; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7272. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Notice and Opportunity for Hearing 
before Levy’’ (RIN1545–AW90; TD8980) received 
on May 23, 2002; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–7273. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Taxpayer Identification Number 
Rule where Taxpayer Claims Treaty Rate 
and is Entitled to an Unexpected Payment’’ 
(RIN1545–BA39; TD8977) received on May 23, 
2002; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7274. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Applicable Federal Rates—February 
2002’’ (Rev. Rul. 2002–5) received on 
May 23, 2002; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7275. A communication from the Chief 
of the Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue 
Service, Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Notice and Opportunity for Hearing 
upon Filing of Notice of Lien’’ (RIN1545– 
AW91; TD8979) received on May 23, 2002; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES 

The following reports of committees 
were submitted: 

By Mr. BIDEN, from the Committee on 
Foreign Relations, with an amendment in 
the nature of a substitute and with an 
amended preamble: 

S. Res. 252: A resolution expressing the 
sense of the Senate regarding human rights 
violations in Tibet, the Panchen Lama, and 
the need for dialogue between the Chinese 
leadership and the Dalai Lama or his representatives. 
f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. ALLARD: 

S. 2574. A bill to amend the Clear Creek 
County, Colorado, Public Lands Transfer Act 
of 1993 to provide additional time for Clear 
Creek County to dispose of certain lands 
transferred to the county under the Act; to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 
f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 940 

At the request of Mr. DODD, the name 
of the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. 
TORRICELLI) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 940, a bill to leave no child behind. 

S. 1000 

At the request of Mr. REED, the name 
of the Senator from Louisiana (Ms. 
LANDRIEU) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 1000, a bill to amend the Child Care 
and Development Block Grant Act of 
1990 to provide incentive grants to improve 
the quality of child care. 
S. 1549 

At the request of Mr. LIEBERMAN, the 
name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. CARNAHAN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1549, a bill to provide for 
increasing the technically trained 
workforce in the United States. 

S. 1651 

At the request of Mr. DORGAN, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1651, a bill to establish the United 
States Consensus Council to provide 
for a consensus building process in addressing 
national public policy issues, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 1678 

At the request of Mr. MCCAIN, the 
name of the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
KYL) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1678, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide that a 
member of the uniformed services or 
the Foreign Service shall be treated as 
using a principal residence while away 
from home on qualified official extended 
duty in determining the exclusion 
of gain from the sale of such residence. 


S. 1991 
At the request of Mr. HOLLINGS, the 
name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. DAYTON) was added as a cosponsor 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4891 

of S. 1991, to establish a national rail 
passenger transportation system, reauthorize 
Amtrak, improve security and 
service on Amtrak, and for other purposes. 


S. 2010 
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. LEVIN) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 2010, a bill to provide for criminal 
prosecution of persons who alter or destroy 
evidence in certain Federal investigations 
or defraud investors of 
publicly traded securities, to disallow 
debts incurred in violation of securities 
fraud laws from being discharged in 
bankruptcy, to protect whistleblowers 
against retaliation by their employers, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 2025 

At the request of Mr. HUTCHINSON, 
the name of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. SNOWE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2025, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to increase the 
rate of special pension for recipients of 
the Medal of Honor and to make that 
special pension effective from the date 
of the act for which the recipient is 
awarded the medal of Honor and to 
amend title 18, United States Code, to 
increase the criminal penalties associated 
with misuse or fraud relating to 
the Medal of Honor. 

S. 2049 

At the request of Mr. DEWINE, the 
name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2049, a bill to amend the Federal 
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act to 
include a 12 month notification period 
before discontinuing a biological product, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 2051 
At the request of Mr. REID, the 
names of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. WELLSTONE) and the Senator from 
Maine (Ms. SNOWE) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 2051, a bill to remove a 
condition preventing authority for concurrent 
receipt of military retired pay 
and veterans’ disability compensation 
from taking affect, and for other purposes. 
S. 2057 
At the request of Mrs. LINCOLN, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2057, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to permit expansion 
of medical residency training programs 
in geriatric medicine and to provide 
for reimbursement of care coordination 
and assessment services provided 
under the medicare program. 
S. 2117 
At the request of Mr. DODD, the name 
of the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. 
JOHNSON) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 2117, a bill to amend the Child Care 
and Development Block Grant Act of 
1990 to reauthorize the Act, and for 
other purposes. 
S. 2215 
At the request of Mr. SANTORUM, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 

SNOWE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2215, a bill to halt Syrian support for 
terrorism, end its occupation of Lebanon, 
stop its development of weapons 
of mass destruction, cease its illegal 
importation of Iraqi oil, and by so 
doing hold Syria accountable for its 
role in the Middle East, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 2250 
At the request of Mr. CORZINE, the 
names of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. TORRICELLI) and the Senator from 
Minnesota (Mr. DAYTON) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2250, a bill to amend 
title 10, United States Code, to reduce 
the age for receipt of military retired 
pay for nonregular service from 60 to 
55. 
S. 2480 
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. TORRICELLI) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2480, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to exempt 
qualified current and former law enforcement 
officers from state laws pro


hibiting the carrying of concealed 
handguns. 
S. 2490 

At the request of Mr. TORRICELLI, the 
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
COLLINS) and the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. WELLSTONE) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2490, a bill to amend 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act 
to ensure the quality of, and access to, 
skilled nursing facility services under 
the medicare program. 

S. 2570 
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the 
name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2570, a bill to temporarily increase 
the Federal medical assistance 
percentage for the medicaid program, 
and for other purposes. 
S. RES. 185 
At the request of Mr. ALLEN, the 
names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. ENZI), the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. HUTCHINSON), the Senator from 
Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) and the Senator 
from Maine (Ms. SNOWE) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Res. 185, a resolution 
recognizing the historical significance 
of the 100th anniversary of Korean immigration 
to the United States. 
S. RES. 248 
At the request of Mr. CORZINE, the 
name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Ms. LANDRIEU) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Res. 248, A resolution concerning 
the rise of anti-Semitism in 
Europe. 
S. RES. 275 
At the request of Mr. SMITH of Oregon, 
the name of the Senator from 
Maine (Ms. COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Res. 275, a resolution expressing 
the sense of the Senate that 
the United States should renew its 
commitment to the world’s mothers 
and children by increasing funding for 
basic child survival and maternal 
health programs of the United States 

Agency for International Development, 
and for other purposes. 

S. CON. RES. 110 
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the 
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
MILLER) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Con. Res. 110, a concurrent resolution 
honoring the heroism and courage displayed 
by airline flight attendants on a 
daily basis. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3459 

At the request of Mr. HARKIN, the 
names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Ms. MIKULSKI), the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. WELLSTONE) and the Senator 
from Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY) 
were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 3459 proposed to H.R. 
3009, a bill to extend the Andean Trade 
Preference Act, to grant additional 
trade benefits under that Act, and for 
other purposes. 

f 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mr. ALLARD: 

S. 2574. A bill to amend the Clear 
Creek County, Colorado, Public Lands 
Transfer Act of 1993 to provide additional 
time for Clear Creek county to 
dispose of certain lands transferred to 
the county under the Act; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 
S. 2574 

Mr. ALLARD. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the text of the 
bill be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

S. 2574 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

Section 5(c)(2) of the Clear Creek County, 
Colorado, Public Lands Transfer Act of 1993 
(Public Law 103–253; 108 Stat. 677) is amended 
by striking ‘‘the date 10 years after the date 
of enactment of this Act’’ and by inserting 
‘‘May 19, 2015’’. 

f 

AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND 
PROPOSED 

SA 3549. Mr. SANTORUM submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill H.R. 4775, making supplemental 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2002, and for other purposes; 
which was ordered to lie on the table. 

SA 3550. Mr. LEAHY submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the 
bill H.R. 4775, supra; which was ordered to lie 
on the table. 

SA 3551. Mr. LEAHY submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him to the 
bill H.R. 4775, supra; which was ordered to lie 
on the table. 

f 

TEXT OF AMENDMENTS 
SA 3549. Mr. SANTORUM submitted 
an amendment intended to be proposed 
by him to the bill H.R. 4775, making 
supplemental appropriations for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2002, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows: 


S4892 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

On page 101, strike lines 4 through 8. 

SA 3550. Mr. LEAHY submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 4775, making supplemental 
appropriations for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2002, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to 
lie on the table; as follows: 

On page 37, between lines 2 and 3, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 307. Of the amount available under 
this chapter for the Defense Emergency Response 
Fund, $6,000,000 shall be available for 
the Army National Guard for information 
operations, information assurance operations, 
and training for such operations. 

SA 3551. Mr. LEAHY submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 4775, making supplemental 
appropriations for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2002, and for 
other purposes; which was ordered to 
lie on the table; as follows: 

On page 37, between lines 2 and 3, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 307. Of the amount available under 
this chapter for the Defense Emergency Response 
Fund, $1,000,000 shall be available for 
the Air National Guard for information operations, 
information assurance operations, 
and training for such operations. 

f 

PRIVILEGE OF THE FLOOR 
Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that Roger Cockrell and 
Scott Burnison, Appropriations Committee 
detailees from the U.S. Corps of 
Engineers and the Department of Energy, 
respectively, be granted privileges 
of the floor for the duration of 
the consideration of the bill now before 
the Senate. 
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

ANDEAN TRADE PREFERENCE ACT 

On May 23rd, the Senate amended 
and passed H.R. 3009, as follows: 
Resolved, That the bill from the House of 
Representatives (H.R. 3009) entitled ‘‘An Act 
to extend the Andean Trade Preference Act, 
to grant additional trade benefits under that 
Act, and for other purposes.’’, do pass with 
the following amendment: 
Strike out all after the enacting clause and 
insert: 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Trade Act of 
2002’’. 

SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; 
TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

(a) DIVISIONS.—This Act is organized into 4 
divisions as follows: 
(1) DIVISION A.—Trade Adjustment Assistance. 
(2) DIVISION B.—Bipartisan Trade Promotion 
Authority. 
(3) DIVISION C.—Andean Trade Preference 
Act. 
(4) DIVISION D.—Extension of Certain Preferential 
Trade Treatment and Other Provisions. 
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for this Act is as follows: 
Sec. 1. Short title. 
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table 

of contents. 
DIVISION A—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE 
Sec. 101. Short title. 
TITLE I—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR WORKERS 
Sec. 111. Adjustment assistance for workers. 

Sec. 112. Displaced worker self-employment 

training pilot program. 
TITLE II—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR FIRMS 
Sec. 201. Reauthorization of program. 
TITLE III—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR COMMUNITIES 
Sec. 301. Purpose. 
Sec. 302. Trade adjustment assistance for communities. 


TITLE IV—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR FARMERS 
Sec. 401. Trade adjustment assistance for farm


ers. 

TITLE V—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR FISHERMEN 
Sec. 501. Trade adjustment assistance for fish


ermen. 
TITLE VI—HEALTH CARE COVERAGE OPTIONS 
FOR WORKERS ELIGIBLE FOR 
TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 
Sec. 601. Trade adjustment assistance health 
insurance credit. 
Sec. 602. Advance payment of trade adjustment 
assistance health insurance credit. 
Sec. 603. Health insurance coverage for eligible 
individuals. 
TITLE VII—CONFORMING AMENDMENTS 
AND EFFECTIVE DATE 
Sec. 701. Conforming amendments. 
TITLE VIII—SAVINGS PROVISIONS AND 
EFFECTIVE DATE 
Sec. 801. Savings provisions. 
Sec. 802. Effective date. 
TITLE IX—REVENUE PROVISIONS 
Sec. 901. Custom user fees. 
TITLE X—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
Sec. 1001. Country of origin labeling of fish and 
shellfish products. 
Sec. 1002. Sugar policy. 
TITLE XI—CUSTOMS REAUTHORIZATION 
Sec. 1101. Short title. 
Subtitle A—United States Customs Service 

CHAPTER 1—DRUG ENFORCEMENT AND OTHER 
NONCOMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS 
Sec. 1111. Authorization of appropriations for 

noncommercial operations, commercial 
operations, and air and 
marine interdiction. 

Sec. 1112. Antiterrorist and illicit narcotics detection 
equipment for the United 
States-Mexico border, United 
States-Canada border, and Flor


ida and the Gulf Coast seaports. 
Sec. 1113. Compliance with performance plan 
requirements. 
CHAPTER 2—CHILD CYBER-SMUGGLING CENTER 
OF THE CUSTOMS SERVICE 
Sec. 1121. Authorization of appropriations for 
program to prevent child pornography/
child sexual exploitation. 
CHAPTER 3—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
Sec. 1131. Additional Customs Service officers 
for United States-Canada border. 
Sec. 1132. Study and report relating to personnel 
practices of the Customs 
Service. 
Sec. 1133. Study and report relating to accounting 
and auditing procedures of 
the Customs Service. 
Sec. 1134. Establishment and implementation of 
cost accounting system; reports. 
Sec. 1135. Study and report relating to timeliness 
of prospective rulings. 
Sec. 1136. Study and report relating to customs 
user fees. 
Sec. 1137. Authorization of appropriations for 
Customs staffing. 
CHAPTER 4—ANTITERRORISM PROVISIONS 
Sec. 1141. Emergency adjustments to offices, 
ports of entry, or staffing of the 
Customs Service. 
Sec. 1142. Mandatory advanced electronic information 
for cargo and passengers. 


Sec. 1143. Border search authority for certain 
contraband in outbound mail. 

Sec. 1144. Authorization of appropriations for 
reestablishment of Customs operations 
in New York City. 

CHAPTER 5—TEXTILE TRANSSHIPMENT 
PROVISIONS 
Sec. 1151. GAO audit of textile transshipment 
monitoring by Customs Service. 

Sec. 1152. Authorization of appropriations for 
textile transshipment enforcement 
operations. 

Sec. 1153. Implementation of the African 
Growth and Opportunity Act. 
Subtitle B—Office of the United States Trade 
Representative 
Sec. 1161. Authorization of appropriations. 
Subtitle C—United States International Trade 
Commission 
Sec. 1171. Authorization of appropriations. 
Subtitle D—Other Trade Provisions 

Sec. 1181. Increase in aggregate value of articles 
exempt from duty acquired 
abroad by United States residents. 

Sec. 1182. Regulatory audit procedures. 
Subtitle E—Sense of Senate 

Sec. 1191. Sense of Senate. 
DIVISION B—BIPARTISAN TRADE 
PROMOTION AUTHORITY 
TITLE XXI—TRADE PROMOTION 

AUTHORITY 
Sec. 2101. Short title; findings. 
Sec. 2102. Trade negotiating objectives. 
Sec. 2103. Trade agreements authority. 
Sec. 2104. Consultations and assessment. 
Sec. 2105. Implementation of trade agreements. 
Sec. 2106. Treatment of certain trade agreements 
for which negotiations have 
already begun. 
Sec. 2107. Congressional Oversight Group. 
Sec. 2108. Additional implementation and enforcement 
requirements. 
Sec. 2109. Committee staff. 
Sec. 2110. Conforming amendments. 
Sec. 2111. Report on impact of trade promotion 
authority. 
Sec. 2112. Identification of small business advocate 
at WTO. 

Sec. 2113. Definitions. 

DIVISION C—ANDEAN TRADE PREFERENCE 
ACT 
TITLE XXXI—ANDEAN TRADE 
PREFERENCE 
Sec. 3101. Short title; findings. 
Sec. 3102. Temporary provisions. 
Sec. 3103. Termination. 
TITLE XXXII—MISCELLANEOUS TRADE 
BENEFITS 
Sec. 3201. Wool provisions. 
Sec. 3202. Duty suspension on wool. 
Sec. 3203. Ceiling fans. 
Sec. 3204. Certain steam or other vapor generating 
boilers used in nuclear facilities. 
DIVISION D—EXTENSION OF CERTAIN 
PREFERENTIAL TRADE TREATMENT AND 
OTHER PROVISIONS 
TITLE XLI—EXTENSION OF GENERALIZED 
SYSTEM OF PREFERENCES 
Sec. 4101. Generalized system of preferences. 
Sec. 4102. Amendments to generalized system of 
preferences. 
TITLE XLII—OTHER PROVISIONS 
Sec. 4201. Transparency in NAFTA tribunals. 
Sec. 4202. Expression of solidarity with Israel in 
its fight against terrorism. 
Sec. 4203. Limitation on use of certain revenue. 
Sec. 4204. Sense of the Senate regarding the 
United States-Russian Federation 
summit meeting, May 2002. 
Sec. 4205. No appropriations. 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4893 

DIVISION A—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE 

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE. 

This division may be cited as the ‘‘Trade Adjustment 
Assistance Reform Act of 2002’’. 

TITLE I—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR WORKERS 

SEC. 111. ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR WORKERS. 


Chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2271 et seq.) is amended to read as follows: 


‘‘CHAPTER 2—ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 

FOR WORKERS 

‘‘Subchapter A—General Provisions 
‘‘SEC. 221. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION.—The term 
‘additional compensation’ has the meaning 
given that term in section 205(3) of the Federal-
State Extended Unemployment Compensation 
Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note). 

‘‘(2) ADVERSELY AFFECTED EMPLOYMENT.—The 
term ‘adversely affected employment’ means employment 
in a firm or appropriate subdivision of 
a firm, if workers of that firm or subdivision are 
eligible to apply for adjustment assistance under 
this chapter. 

‘‘(3) ADVERSELY AFFECTED WORKER.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘adversely affected 
worker’ means a worker who is a member 
of a group of workers certified by the Secretary 
under section 231(a)(1) as eligible for trade adjustment 
assistance. 

‘‘(B) ADVERSELY AFFECTED SECONDARY WORK-
ER.—The term ‘adversely affected worker’ includes 
an adversely affected secondary worker 
who is a member of a group of workers employed 
at a downstream producer or a supplier, that is 
certified by the Secretary under section 231(a)(2) 
as eligible for trade adjustment assistance. 

‘‘(4) AVERAGE WEEKLY HOURS.—The term ‘average 
weekly hours’ means the average hours 
worked by a worker (excluding overtime) in the 
employment from which the worker has been or 
claims to have been separated in the 52 weeks 
(excluding weeks during which the worker was 
on leave for purposes of vacation, sickness, maternity, 
military service, or any other employer-
authorized leave) preceding the week specified 
in paragraph (5)(B)(ii). 

‘‘(5) AVERAGE WEEKLY WAGE.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘average weekly 
wage’ means 1/13 of the total wages paid to an 
individual in the high quarter. 

‘‘(B) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of computing 
the average weekly wage— 

‘‘(i) the term ‘high quarter’ means the quarter 
in which the individual’s total wages were highest 
among the first 4 of the last 5 completed calendar 
quarters immediately preceding the quarter 
in which occurs the week with respect to 
which the computation is made; and 

‘‘(ii) the term ‘week’ means the week in which 
total separation occurred, or, in cases where 
partial separation is claimed, an appropriate 
week, as defined in regulations prescribed by 
the Secretary. 

‘‘(6) BENEFIT PERIOD.—The term ‘benefit period’ 
means, with respect to an individual, the 
following: 

‘‘(A) STATE LAW.—The benefit year and any 
ensuing period, as determined under applicable 
State law, during which the individual is eligible 
for regular compensation, additional compensation, 
or extended compensation. 

‘‘(B) FEDERAL LAW.—The equivalent to the 
benefit year or ensuing period provided for 
under the applicable Federal unemployment insurance 
law. 

‘‘(7) BENEFIT YEAR.—The term ‘benefit year’ 
has the same meaning given that term in the 
Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation 
Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note). 

‘‘(8) CONTRIBUTED IMPORTANTLY.—The term 
‘contributed importantly’ means a cause that is 

important but not necessarily more important 
than any other cause. 

‘‘(9) COOPERATING STATE.—The term ‘cooperating 
State’ means any State that has entered 
into an agreement with the Secretary under section 
222. 

‘‘(10) CUSTOMIZED TRAINING.—The term ‘customized 
training’ means training that is designed 
to meet the special requirements of an 
employer (including a group of employers) and 
that is conducted with a commitment by the employer 
to employ an individual on successful 
completion of the training. 

‘‘(11) DOWNSTREAM PRODUCER.—The term 
‘downstream producer’ means a firm that performs 
additional, value-added production processes 
for a firm or subdivision, including a firm 
that performs final assembly or finishing, directly 
for another firm (or subdivision), for articles 
that were the basis for a certification of eligibility 
under section 231(a)(1) of a group of 
workers employed by such other firm, if the certification 
of eligibility under section 231(a)(1) is 
based on an increase in imports from, or a shift 
in production to, Canada or Mexico. 

‘‘(12) EXTENDED COMPENSATION.—The term 
‘extended compensation’ has the meaning given 
that term in section 205(4) of the Federal-State 
Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 
1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note). 

‘‘(13) JOB FINDING CLUB.—The term ‘job finding 
club’ means a job search workshop which 
includes a period of structured, supervised activity 
in which participants attempt to obtain 
jobs. 

‘‘(14) JOB SEARCH PROGRAM.—The term ‘job 
search program’ means a job search workshop or 
job finding club. 

‘‘(15) JOB SEARCH WORKSHOP.—The term ‘job 
search workshop’ means a short (1- to 3-day) 
seminar, covering subjects such as labor market 
information, re´sume´ writing, interviewing techniques, 
and techniques for finding job openings, 
that is designed to provide participants with 
knowledge that will enable the participants to 
find jobs. 

‘‘(16) ON-THE-JOB TRAINING.—The term ‘onthe-
job training’ has the same meaning as that 
term has in section 101(31) of the Workforce Investment 
Act. 

‘‘(17) PARTIAL SEPARATION.—A partial separation 
shall be considered to exist with respect to 
an individual if— 

‘‘(A) the individual has had a 20-percent or 
greater reduction in the average weekly hours 
worked by that individual in adversely affected 
employment; and 

‘‘(B) the individual has had a 20-percent or 
greater reduction in the average weekly wage of 
the individual with respect to adversely affected 
employment. 

‘‘(18) REGULAR COMPENSATION.—The term 
‘regular compensation’ has the meaning given 
that term in section 205(2) of the Federal-State 
Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 
1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note). 

‘‘(19) REGULAR STATE UNEMPLOYMENT.—The 
term ‘regular State unemployment’ means unemployment 
insurance benefits other than an extension 
of unemployment insurance by a State 
using its own funds beyond either the 26-week 
period mandated by Federal law or any additional 
period provided for under the Federal-
State Extended Unemployment Compensation 
Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note). 

‘‘(20) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ means 
the Secretary of Labor. 

‘‘(21) STATE.—The term ‘State’ includes each 
State of the United States, the District of Columbia, 
and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 

‘‘(22) STATE AGENCY.—The term ‘State agency’ 
means the agency of the State that administers 
the State law. 

‘‘(23) STATE LAW.—The term ‘State law’ means 
the unemployment insurance law of the State 
approved by the Secretary under section 3304 of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 

‘‘(24) SUPPLIER.—The term ‘supplier’ means a 
firm that produces and supplies directly to an


other firm (or subdivision) component parts for 
articles that were the basis for a certification of 
eligibility under section 231(a)(1) of a group of 
workers employed by such other firm. 

‘‘(25) TOTAL SEPARATION.—The term ‘total 
separation’ means the layoff or severance of an 
individual from employment with a firm in 
which or in a subdivision of which, adversely 
affected employment exists. 

‘‘(26) UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.—The term 
‘unemployment insurance’ means the unemployment 
compensation payable to an individual 
under any State law or Federal unemployment 
compensation law, including chapter 85 of title 
5, United States Code, and the Railroad Unemployment 
Insurance Act (45 U.S.C. 351 et seq.). 

‘‘(27) WEEK.—Except as provided in paragraph 
5(B)(ii), the term ‘week’ means a week as 
defined in the applicable State law. 

‘‘(28) WEEK OF UNEMPLOYMENT.—The term 
‘week of unemployment’ means a week of total, 
part-total, or partial unemployment as determined 
under the applicable State law or Federal 
unemployment insurance law. 

‘‘SEC. 222. AGREEMENTS WITH STATES. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary is authorized 
on behalf of the United States to enter into 
an agreement with any State or with any State 
agency (referred to in this chapter as ‘cooperating 
State’ and ‘cooperating State agency’, respectively) 
to facilitate the provision of services 
under this chapter. 

‘‘(b) PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENTS.—Under an 
agreement entered into under subsection (a)— 

‘‘(1) the cooperating State agency as an agent 
of the United States shall— 

‘‘(A) facilitate the early filing of petitions 
under section 231(b) for any group of workers 
that the State considers is likely to be eligible 
for benefits under this chapter; 

‘‘(B) assist the Secretary in the review of any 
petition submitted from that State by verifying 
the information and providing other assistance 
as the Secretary may request; 

‘‘(C) advise each worker who applies for unemployment 
insurance of the available benefits 
under this chapter and the procedures and 
deadlines for applying for those benefits and of 
the worker’s potential eligibility for assistance 
with health care coverage through the trade adjustment 
assistance health insurance credit 
under section 6429 of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 or under funds made available to the 
State to carry out section 173(f) of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998; 

‘‘(D) receive applications for services under 
this chapter; 

‘‘(E) provide payments on the basis provided 
for in this chapter; 

‘‘(F) advise each adversely affected worker to 
apply for training under section 240, and of the 
deadlines for benefits related to enrollment in 
training under this chapter; 

‘‘(G) ensure that the State employees with responsibility 
for carrying out an agreement entered 
into under subsection (a)— 

‘‘(i) inform adversely affected workers covered 
by a certification issued under section 231(c) of 
the workers’ (and individual member’s of the 
worker’s family) potential eligibility for— 

‘‘(I) medical assistance under the medicaid 
program established under title XIX of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a et seq.); 

‘‘(II) child health assistance under the State 
children’s health insurance program established 
under title XXI of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et 
seq.); 

‘‘(III) child care services for which assistance 
is provided under the Child Care and Development 
Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et 
seq.); 

‘‘(IV) the trade adjustment assistance health 
insurance credit under section 6429 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 and health care coverage 
assistance under funds made available to 
the State to carry out section 173(f) of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998; and 


S4894 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

‘‘(V) other Federal- and State-funded health 
care, child care, transportation, and assistance 
programs for which the workers may be eligible; 
and 

‘‘(ii) provide such workers with information 
regarding how to apply for such assistance, 
services, and programs, including notification 
that the election period for COBRA continuation 
may be extended for certain workers under 
section 603 of the Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Reform Act of 2002; 

‘‘(H) provide adversely affected workers referral 
to training services approved under title I of 
the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 
2801 et seq.), and any other appropriate Federal 
or State program designed to assist dislocated 
workers or unemployed individuals, consistent 
with the requirements of subsection (b)(2); 

‘‘(I) collect and transmit to the Secretary any 
data as the Secretary shall reasonably require to 
assist the Secretary in assuring the effective and 
efficient performance of the programs carried 
out under this chapter; and 

‘‘(J) otherwise actively cooperate with the Secretary 
and with other Federal and State agencies 
in providing payments and services under 
this chapter, including participation in the performance 
measurement system established by the 
Secretary under section 224. 

‘‘(2) the cooperating State shall— 

‘‘(A) arrange for the provision of services 
under this chapter through the one-stop delivery 
system established in section 134(c) of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 
2864(c)) where available; 

‘‘(B) provide to adversely affected workers 
statewide rapid response activities under section 
134(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce Investment Act of 
1998 (29 U.S.C. 2864(a)(2)(A)) in the same manner 
and to the same extent as any other worker 
eligible for those activities; 

‘‘(C) afford adversely affected workers the 
services provided under section 134(d) of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 
92864(d)) in the same manner and to the same 
extent as any other worker eligible for those 
services; and 

‘‘(D) provide training services under this 
chapter using training providers approved 
under title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 
1998 (29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.) which may include 
community colleges, and other effective providers 
of training services. 

‘‘(c) OTHER PROVISIONS.— 

‘‘(1) APPROVAL OF TRAINING PROVIDERS.—The 
Secretary shall ensure that the training services 
provided by cooperating States are provided by 
organizations approved by the Secretary to effectively 
assist workers eligible for assistance 
under this chapter. 

‘‘(2) AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION, OR TERMINATION 
OF AGREEMENTS.—Each agreement entered 
into under this section shall provide the 
terms and conditions upon which the agreement 
may be amended, suspended, or terminated. 

‘‘(3) EFFECT ON UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.— 
Each agreement entered into under this section 
shall provide that unemployment insurance otherwise 
payable to any adversely affected worker 
will not be denied or reduced for any week by 
reason of any right to payments under this 
chapter. 

‘‘(4) COORDINATION OF WORKFORCE INVESTMENT 
ACTIVITIES.—In order to promote the coordination 
of Workforce Investment Act activities 
in each State with activities carried out 
under this chapter, each agreement entered into 
under this section shall provide that the State 
shall submit to the Secretary, in such form as 
the Secretary may require, the description and 
information described in paragraphs (8) and (14) 
of section 112(b) of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2822(b) (8) and (14)). 

‘‘(d) REVIEW OF STATE DETERMINATIONS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A determination by a cooperating 
State regarding entitlement to program 
benefits under this chapter is subject to review 
in the same manner and to the same extent 

as determinations under the applicable State 
law. 

‘‘(2) APPEAL.—A review undertaken by a cooperating 
State under paragraph (1) may be appealed 
to the Secretary pursuant to such regulations 
as the Secretary may prescribe. 

‘‘SEC. 223. ADMINISTRATION ABSENT STATE 
AGREEMENT. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In any State in which 
there is no agreement in force under section 222, 
the Secretary shall arrange, under regulations 
prescribed by the Secretary, for the performance 
of all necessary functions under this chapter, 
including providing a hearing for any worker 
whose application for payment is denied. 

‘‘(b) FINALITY OF DETERMINATION.—A final 
determination under subsection (a) regarding 
entitlement to program benefits under this chapter 
is subject to review by the courts in the same 
manner and to the same extent as is provided by 
section 205(g) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 405(g)). 

‘‘SEC. 224. DATA COLLECTION; EVALUATIONS; REPORTS. 


‘‘(a) DATA COLLECTION.—The Secretary shall, 
pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary, 
collect any data necessary to meet the 
requirements of this chapter. 

‘‘(b) PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS.—The Secretary 
shall establish an effective performance 
measuring system to evaluate the following: 

‘‘(1) PROGRAM PERFORMANCE.— 

‘‘(A) speed of petition processing; 

‘‘(B) quality of petition processing; 

‘‘(C) cost of training programs; 

‘‘(D) coordination of programs under this title 
with programs under the Workforce Investment 
Act (29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.); 

‘‘(E) length of time participants take to enter 
and complete training programs; 

‘‘(F) the effectiveness of individual contractors 
in providing appropriate retraining information; 


‘‘(G) the effectiveness of individual approved 
training programs in helping workers obtain employment; 


‘‘(H) best practices related to the provision of 
benefits and retraining; and 

‘‘(I) other data to evaluate how individual 
States are implementing the requirements of this 
title. 

‘‘(2) PARTICIPANT OUTCOMES.— 

‘‘(A) reemployment rates; 

‘‘(B) types of jobs in which displaced workers 
have been placed; 

‘‘(C) wage and benefit maintenance results; 

‘‘(D) training completion rates; and 

‘‘(E) other data to evaluate how effective programs 
under this chapter are for participants, 
taking into consideration current economic conditions 
in the State. 

‘‘(3) PROGRAM PARTICIPATION DATA.— 

‘‘(A) the number of workers receiving benefits 
and the type of benefits being received; 

‘‘(B) the number of workers enrolled in, and 
the duration of, training by major types of 
training; 

‘‘(C) earnings history of workers that reflects 
wages before separation and wages in any job 
obtained after receiving benefits under this Act; 

‘‘(D) the cause of dislocation identified in 
each certified petition; 

‘‘(E) the number of petitions filed and workers 
certified in each United States congressional 
district; and 

‘‘(F) the number of workers who received 
waivers under each category identified in section 
235(c)(1) and the average duration of such 
waivers. 

‘‘(c) STATE PARTICIPATION.—The Secretary 
shall ensure, to the extent practicable, through 
oversight and effective internal control measures 
the following: 

‘‘(1) STATE PARTICIPATION.—Participation by 
each State in the performance measurement system 
established under subsection (b). 

‘‘(2) MONITORING.—Monitoring by each State 
of internal control measures with respect to per


formance measurement data collected by each 
State. 

‘‘(3) RESPONSE.—The quality and speed of the 
rapid response provided by each State under 
section 134(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2864(a)(2)(A)). 

‘‘(d) REPORTS.— 

‘‘(1) REPORTS BY THE SECRETARY.— 

‘‘(A) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 
months after the date of enactment of the Trade 
Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Finance 
of the Senate and the Committee on Ways 
and Means of the House of Representatives a report 
that— 

‘‘(i) describes the performance measurement 
system established under subsection (b); 

‘‘(ii) includes analysis of data collected 
through the system established under subsection 
(b); 

‘‘(iii) includes information identifying the 
number of workers who received waivers under 
section 235(c) and the average duration of those 
during the preceding year; 

‘‘(iv) describes and analyzes State participation 
in the system; 

‘‘(v) analyzes the quality and speed of the 
rapid response provided by each State under 
section 134(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2864(a)(2)(A)); and 

‘‘(vi) provides recommendations for program 
improvements. 

‘‘(B) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 1 year 
after the date the report is submitted under subparagraph 
(A), and annually thereafter, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Finance 
of the Senate and the Committee on Ways 
and Means of the House of Representatives a report 
that includes the information collected 
under clauses (ii) through (v) of subparagraph 
(A). 

‘‘(2) STATE REPORTS.—Pursuant to regulations 
prescribed by the Secretary, each State shall 
submit to the Secretary a report that details its 
participation in the programs established under 
this chapter, and that contains the data necessary 
to allow the Secretary to submit the report 
required under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(3) PUBLICATION.—The Secretary shall make 
available to each State, and other public and 
private organizations as determined by the Secretary, 
the data gathered and evaluated 
through the performance measurement system 
established under paragraph (1). 
‘‘SEC. 225. STUDY BY SECRETARY OF LABOR WHEN 

INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMIS


SION BEGINS INVESTIGATION. 

‘‘(a) NOTIFICATION OF INVESTIGATION.—Whenever 
the International Trade Commission begins 
an investigation under section 202 with respect 
to an industry, the Commission shall immediately 
notify the Secretary of that investigation, 
and the Secretary shall immediately begin 
a study of— 

‘‘(1) the number of workers in the domestic industry 
producing the like or directly competitive 
article who have been or are likely to be certified 
as eligible for adjustment assistance under 
this chapter; and 

‘‘(2) the extent to which the adjustment of 
those workers to the import competition may be 
facilitated through the use of existing programs. 

‘‘(b) REPORT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide 
a report based on the study conducted under 
subsection (a) to the President not later than 15 
days after the day on which the Commission 
makes its report under section 202(f). 

‘‘(2) PUBLICATION.—The Secretary shall 
promptly make public the report provided to the 
President under paragraph (1) (with the exception 
of information which the Secretary determines 
to be confidential) and shall have a summary 
of the report published in the Federal Register. 
‘‘SEC. 226. REPORT BY SECRETARY OF LABOR ON 

LIKELY IMPACT OF TRADE AGREE


MENTS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—At least 90 calendar days 
before the day on which the President enters 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4895 

into a trade agreement under section 2103(b) of 
the Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority Act 
of 2002, the President shall provide the Secretary 
with details of the agreement as it exists 
at that time and direct the Secretary to prepare 
and submit the assessment described in subsection 
(b). Between the time the President instructs 
the Secretary to prepare the assessment 
under this section and the time the Secretary 
submits the assessment to Congress, the President 
shall keep the Secretary current with respect 
to the details of the agreement. 

‘‘(b) ASSESSMENT.—Not later than 90 calendar 
days after the President enters into the agreement, 
the Secretary shall submit to the President, 
the Committee on Finance of the Senate, 
the Committee on Ways and Means of the House 
of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations 
of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives, a report assessing the likely impact 
of the agreement on employment in the 
United States economy as a whole and in specific 
industrial sectors, including the extent of 
worker dislocations likely to result from implementation 
of the agreement. The report shall include 
an estimate of the financial and administrative 
resources necessary to provide trade adjustment 
assistance to all potentially adversely 
affected workers. 

‘‘Subchapter B—Certifications 
‘‘SEC. 231. CERTIFICATION AS ADVERSELY AFFECTED 
WORKERS. 

‘‘(a) ELIGIBILITY FOR CERTIFICATION.— 

‘‘(1) GENERAL RULE.—A group of workers (including 
workers in any agricultural firm or subdivision 
of an agricultural firm) shall be certified 
by the Secretary as adversely affected 
workers and eligible for trade adjustment assistance 
benefits under this chapter pursuant to a 
petition filed under subsection (b) if the Secretary 
determines that a significant number or 
proportion of the workers in the workers’ firm or 
an appropriate subdivision of the firm have become 
totally or partially separated, or are 
threatened to become totally or partially separated, 
and that either— 

‘‘(A)(i) the sales or production, or both, of 
such firm or subdivision have decreased absolutely; 


‘‘(ii) the value or volume of imports of articles 
like or directly competitive with articles produced 
by that firm or subdivision have increased; 
and 

‘‘(iii) the increase in the value or volume of 
imports described in clause (ii) contributed importantly 
to the workers’ separation or threat of 
separation and to the decline in the sales or production 
of such firm or subdivision; or 

‘‘(B) there has been a shift in production by 
the workers’ firm or subdivision to a foreign 
country of articles like or directly competitive 
with articles which are produced by that firm or 
subdivision and the shift in production contributed 
importantly to the workers’ separation or 
threat of separation. 

‘‘(2) ADVERSELY AFFECTED SECONDARY WORKER.—
A group of workers (including workers in 
any agricultural firm or subdivision of an agricultural 
firm) shall be certified by the Secretary 
as adversely affected and eligible for trade adjustment 
assistance benefits under this chapter 
pursuant to a petition filed under subsection (b) 
if the Secretary determines that— 

‘‘(A) a significant number or proportion of the 
workers in the workers’ firm or an appropriate 
subdivision of the firm have become totally or 
partially separated, or are threatened to become 
totally or partially separated; 

‘‘(B) the workers’ firm (or subdivision) is a 
supplier or downstream producer to a firm (or 
subdivision) that employed a group of workers 
who received a certification of eligibility under 
paragraph (1), and such supply or production is 
related to the article that was the basis for such 
certification (as defined in section 221 (11) and 
(24)); and 

‘‘(C) a loss of business by the workers’ firm 
with the firm (or subdivision) described in sub


paragraph (B) contributed importantly to the 
workers’ separation or threat of separation determined 
under subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR SECONDARY WORKERS.—
Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the Secretary 
may, pursuant to standards established 
by the Secretary and for good cause shown, certify 
as eligible for trade adjustment assistance 
under this chapter a group of workers who meet 
the requirements for certification as adversely 
affected secondary workers in paragraph (2), except 
that the Secretary has not received a petition 
under paragraph (1) on behalf of workers 
at a firm to which the petitioning workers’ firm 
is a supplier or downstream producer as defined 
in section 221 (11) and (24). 

‘‘(4) SPECIAL PROVISIONS.— 

‘‘(A) OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCERS.—For 
purposes of this section, any firm, or appropriate 
subdivision of a firm, that engages in exploration 
or drilling for oil or natural gas shall 
be considered to be a firm producing oil or natural 
gas. 

‘‘(B) OIL AND NATURAL GAS IMPORTS.—For 
purposes of this section, any firm, or appropriate 
subdivision of a firm, that engages in exploration 
or drilling for oil or natural gas, or 
otherwise produces oil or natural gas, shall be 
considered to be producing articles directly competitive 
with imports of oil and with imports of 
natural gas. 

‘‘(C) TACONITE.—For purposes of this section, 
taconite pellets produced in the United States 
shall be considered to be an article that is like 
or directly competitive with imports of semi-
finished steel slab. 

‘‘(b) PETITIONS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A petition for certification 
of eligibility for trade adjustment assistance 
under this chapter for a group of adversely affected 
workers shall be filed simultaneously 
with the Secretary and with the Governor of the 
State in which the firm or subdivision of the 
firm employing the workers is located. 

‘‘(2) PERSONS WHO MAY FILE A PETITION.—A 
petition under paragraph (1) may be filed by 
any of the following: 

‘‘(A) WORKERS.—A group of workers (including 
workers in an agricultural firm or subdivision 
of any agricultural firm). 

‘‘(B) WORKER REPRESENTATIVES.—The certified 
or recognized union or other duly appointed 
representative of the workers. 

‘‘(C) WORKER ADJUSTMENT AND RETRAINING 
NOTIFICATION.—Any entity to which notice of a 
plant closing or mass layoff must be given under 
section 3 of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining 
Notification Act (29 U.S.C. 2102). 

‘‘(D) OTHER.—Employers of workers described 
in subparagraph (A), one-stop operators or one-
stop partners (as defined in section 101 of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 
2801)), or State employment agencies, on behalf 
of the workers. 

‘‘(E) REQUEST TO INITIATE CERTIFICATION.— 
The President, or the Committee on Finance of 
the Senate or the Committee on Ways and 
Means of the House of Representatives (by resolution), 
may petition the Secretary to initiate a 
certification process under this chapter to determine 
the eligibility for trade adjustment assistance 
of a group of workers. 

‘‘(3) ACTIONS BY GOVERNOR.— 

‘‘(A) COOPERATING STATE.—Upon receipt of a 
petition, the Governor of a cooperating State 
shall ensure that the requirements of the agreement 
entered into under section 222 are met. 

‘‘(B) OTHER STATES.—Upon receipt of a petition, 
the Governor of a State that has not entered 
into an agreement under section 222 shall 
coordinate closely with the Secretary to ensure 
that workers covered by a petition are— 

‘‘(i) provided with all available services, including 
rapid response activities under section 
134 of the Workforce Investment Act (29 U.S.C. 
2864); 

‘‘(ii) informed of the workers’ (and individual 
member’s of the worker’s family) potential eligibility 
for— 

‘‘(I) medical assistance under the medicaid 
program established under title XIX of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a et seq.); 

‘‘(II) child health assistance under the State 
children’s health insurance program established 
under title XXI of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et 
seq.); 

‘‘(III) child care services for which assistance 
is provided under the Child Care and Development 
Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et 
seq.); 

‘‘(IV) the trade adjustment assistance health 
insurance credit under section 6429 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 and health care coverage 
assistance under funds made available to 
the State to carry out section 173(f) of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998; and 

‘‘(V) other Federal and State funded health 
care, child care, transportation, and assistance 
programs that the workers may be eligible for; 
and 

‘‘(iii) provided with information regarding 
how to apply for the assistance, services, and 
programs described in clause (ii). 

‘‘(c) ACTIONS BY SECRETARY.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as possible after 
the date on which a petition is filed under subsection 
(b), but not later than 40 days after that 
date, the Secretary shall determine whether the 
petitioning group meets the requirements of subsection 
(a), and if warranted, shall issue a certification 
of eligibility for trade adjustment assistance 
pursuant to this subchapter. In making 
the determination, the Secretary shall consult 
with all petitioning entities. 

‘‘(2) PUBLICATION OF DETERMINATION.—Upon 
making a determination under paragraph (1), 
the Secretary shall promptly publish a summary 
of the determination in the Federal Register together 
with the reasons for making that determination. 


‘‘(3) DATE SPECIFIED IN CERTIFICATION.—Each 
certification made under this subsection shall 
specify the date on which the total or partial 
separation began or threatened to begin with respect 
to a group of certified workers. 

‘‘(4) PROJECTED TRAINING NEEDS.—The Secretary 
shall inform the State Workforce Investment 
Board or equivalent agency, and other 
public or private agencies, institutions, employers, 
and labor organizations, as appropriate, of 
each certification issued under section 231 and 
of projections, if available, of the need for training 
under section 240 as a result of that certification. 


‘‘(d) SCOPE OF CERTIFICATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A certification issued under 
subsection (c) shall cover adversely affected 
workers in any group that meets the requirements 
of subsection (a), whose total or partial 
separation occurred on or after the date on 
which the petition was filed under subsection 
(b). 

‘‘(2) WORKERS SEPARATED PRIOR TO CERTIFICATION.—
A certification issued under subsection 

(c) shall cover adversely affected workers whose 
total or partial separation occurred not more 
than 1 year prior to the date on which the petition 
was filed under subsection (b). 
‘‘(e) TERMINATION OF CERTIFICATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary determines, 
with respect to any certification of eligibility, 
that workers separated from a firm or subdivision 
covered by a certification of eligibility are 
no longer adversely affected workers, the Secretary 
shall terminate the certification. 

‘‘(2) PUBLICATION OF TERMINATION.—The Secretary 
shall promptly publish notice of any termination 
made under paragraph (1) in the Federal 
Register together with the reasons for making 
that determination. 

‘‘(3) APPLICATION.—Any determination made 
under paragraph (1) shall apply only to total or 
partial separations occurring after the termination 
date specified by the Secretary. 

‘‘SEC. 232. BENEFIT INFORMATION TO WORKERS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, in accordance 
with the provisions of section 222 or 


S4896 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

223, as appropriate, provide prompt and full information 
to adversely affected workers covered 
by a certification issued under section 231(c), including 
information regarding— 

‘‘(1) benefit allowances, training, and other 
employment services available under this chapter; 


‘‘(2) petition and application procedures 
under this chapter; 

‘‘(3) appropriate filing dates for the allowances, 
training, and services available under 
this chapter; and 

‘‘(4) procedures for applying for and receiving 
all other Federal benefits and services available 
to separated workers during a period of unemployment. 


‘‘(b) ASSISTANCE TO GROUPS OF WORKERS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide 
any necessary assistance to enable groups of 
workers to prepare petitions or applications for 
program benefits. 

‘‘(2) ASSISTANCE FROM STATES.—The Secretary 
shall ensure that cooperating States fully comply 
with the agreements entered into under section 
222 and shall periodically review that compliance. 


‘‘(c) NOTICE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later that 15 days after 
a certification is issued under section 231 (or as 
soon as practicable after separation), the Secretary 
shall provide written notice of the benefits 
available under this chapter to each worker 
whom the Secretary has reason to believe is covered 
by the certification. 

‘‘(2) PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.—The Secretary 
shall publish notice of the benefits available 
under this chapter to workers covered by each 
certification made under section 231 in newspapers 
of general circulation in the areas in 
which those workers reside. 

‘‘(3) NOTICE TO OTHER PARTIES AFFECTED BY 
THESE PROVISIONS REGARDING HEALTH ASSISTANCE.—
The Secretary shall notify each provider 
of health insurance within the meaning of section 
7527 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
of the availability of health care coverage assistance 
under title VI of the Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Reform Act of 2002 and of the temporary 
extension of the election period for 
COBRA continuation coverage for certain workers 
under section 603 of that Act. 

‘‘Subchapter C—Program Benefits 

‘‘PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS 
‘‘SEC. 234. COMPREHENSIVE ASSISTANCE. 

‘‘Workers covered by a certification issued by 
the Secretary under section 231 shall be eligible 
for the following: 

‘‘(1) Trade adjustment allowances as described 
in sections 235 through 238. 

‘‘(2) Employment services as described in section 
239. 

‘‘(3) Training as described in section 240. 

‘‘(4) Job search allowances as described in section 
241. 

‘‘(5) Relocation allowances as described in 
section 242. 

‘‘(6) Supportive services and wage insurance 
as described in section 243. 

‘‘(7) Health care coverage assistance under 
title VI of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform 
Act of 2002. 

‘‘PART II—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ALLOWANCES 

‘‘SEC. 235. QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR 
WORKERS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Payment of a trade adjustment 
allowance shall be made to an adversely 
affected worker covered by a certification under 
section 231 who files an application for the allowance 
for any week of unemployment that begins 
more than 60 days after the date on which 
the petition that resulted in the certification 
was filed under section 231, if the following conditions 
are met: 

‘‘(1) TIME OF TOTAL OR PARTIAL SEPARATION 
FROM EMPLOYMENT.—The adversely affected 

worker’s total or partial separation before the 
worker’s application under this chapter 
occurred— 

‘‘(A) within the period specified in either section 
231 (d) (1) or (2); 

‘‘(B) before the expiration of the 2-year period 
beginning on the date on which the certification 
under section 231 was issued; and 

‘‘(C) before the termination date (if any) determined 
pursuant to section 231(e). 

‘‘(2) EMPLOYMENT REQUIRED.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The adversely affected 
worker had, in the 52-week period ending with 
the week in which the total or partial separation 
occurred, at least 26 weeks of employment 
at wages of $30 or more a week with a single 
firm or subdivision of a firm. 

‘‘(B) UNAVAILABILITY OF DATA.—If data with 
respect to weeks of employment with a firm are 
not available, the worker had equivalent 
amounts of employment computed under regulations 
prescribed by the Secretary. 

‘‘(C) WEEK OF EMPLOYMENT.—For the purposes 
of this paragraph any week shall be treated 
as a week of employment at wages of $30 or 
more, if an adversely affected worker— 

‘‘(i) is on employer-authorized leave for purposes 
of vacation, sickness, injury, or maternity, 
or inactive duty training or active duty for 
training in the Armed Forces of the United 
States; 

‘‘(ii) does not work because of a disability that 
is compensable under a workmen’s compensation 
law or plan of a State or the United States; 

‘‘(iii) had employment interrupted in order to 
serve as a full-time representative of a labor organization 
in that firm or subdivision; or 

‘‘(iv) is on call-up for purposes of active duty 
in a reserve status in the Armed Forces of the 
United States, provided that active duty is ‘Federal 
service’ as defined in section 8521(a)(1) of 
title 5, United States Code. 

‘‘(D) EXCEPTIONS.— 

‘‘(i) In the case of weeks described in clause 

(i) or (iii) of subparagraph (C), or both, not 
more than 7 weeks may be treated as weeks of 
employment under subparagraph (C). 
‘‘(ii) In the case of weeks described in clause 

(ii) or (iv) of subparagraph (C), not more than 
26 weeks may be treated as weeks of employment 
under subparagraph (C). 
‘‘(3) UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.—The adversely 
affected worker meets all of the following 
requirements: 

‘‘(A) ENTITLEMENT TO UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.—
The worker was entitled to (or would be 
entitled to if the worker applied for) unemployment 
insurance for a week within the benefit 
period— 

‘‘(i) in which total or partial separation took 
place; or 

‘‘(ii) which began (or would have begun) by 
reason of the filing of a claim for unemployment 
insurance by the worker after total or partial 
separation. 

‘‘(B) EXHAUSTION OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.—
The worker has exhausted all rights to 
any regular State unemployment insurance to 
which the worker was entitled (or would be entitled 
if the worker had applied for any regular 
State unemployment insurance). 

‘‘(C) NO UNEXPIRED WAITING PERIOD.—The 
worker does not have an unexpired waiting period 
applicable to the worker for any unemployment 
insurance. 

‘‘(4) EXTENDED UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.—
The adversely affected worker, with respect 
to a week of unemployment, would not be 
disqualified for extended compensation payable 
under the Federal-State Extended Unemployment 
Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 
note) by reason of the work acceptance and job 
search requirements in section 202(a)(3) of that 
Act. 

‘‘(5) TRAINING.—The adversely affected worker 
is enrolled in a training program approved by 
the Secretary under section 240(a), and the enrollment 
occurred not later than the latest of the 

periods described in subparagraph (A), (B), or 
(C). 

‘‘(A) 16 WEEKS.—The worker enrolled not later 
than the last day of the 16th week after the 
worker’s most recent total separation that meets 
the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2). 

‘‘(B) 8 WEEKS.—The worker enrolled not later 
than the last day of the 8th week after the week 
in which the Secretary issues a certification covering 
the worker. 

‘‘(C) EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES.—Notwithstanding 
subparagraphs (A) and (B), the adversely 
affected worker is eligible for trade adjustment 
assistance if the worker enrolled not 
later than 45 days after the later of the dates 
specified in subparagraph (A) or (B), and the 
Secretary determines there are extenuating circumstances 
that justify an extension in the enrollment 
period. 

‘‘(b) FAILURE TO PARTICIPATE IN TRAINING.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Until the adversely affected 
worker begins or resumes participation in a 
training program approved under section 240(a), 
no trade adjustment allowance may be paid 
under subsection (a) to an adversely affected 
worker for any week or any succeeding week in 
which— 

‘‘(A) the Secretary determines that— 

‘‘(i) the adversely affected worker— 

‘‘(I) has failed to begin participation in a 
training program the enrollment in which meets 
the requirement of subsection (a)(5); or 

‘‘(II) has ceased to participate in such a training 
program before completing the training program; 
and 

‘‘(ii) there is no justifiable cause for the failure 
or cessation; or 

‘‘(B) the waiver issued to that worker under 
subsection (c)(1) is revoked under subsection 
(c)(2). 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—The provisions of subsection 
(a)(5) and paragraph (1) shall not apply with 
respect to any week of unemployment that begins 
before the first week following the week in 
which the certification is issued under section 
231. 

‘‘(c) WAIVERS OF TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) ISSUANCE OF WAIVERS.—The Secretary 
may issue a written statement to an adversely 
affected worker waiving the requirement to be 
enrolled in training described in subsection (a) 
if the Secretary determines that the training requirement 
is not feasible or appropriate for the 
worker, because of 1 or more of the following 
reasons: 

‘‘(A) RECALL.—The worker has been notified 
that the worker will be recalled by the firm from 
which the separation occurred. 

‘‘(B) MARKETABLE SKILLS.—The worker possesses 
marketable skills for suitable employment 
(as determined pursuant to an assessment of the 
worker, which may include the profiling system 
under section 303(j) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 503(j)), carried out in accordance 
with guidelines issued by the Secretary) and 
there is a reasonable expectation of employment 
at equivalent wages in the foreseeable future. 

‘‘(C) RETIREMENT.—The worker is within 2 
years of meeting all requirements for entitlement 
to either— 

‘‘(i) old-age insurance benefits under title II 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) 
(except for application therefore); or 

‘‘(ii) a private pension sponsored by an employer 
or labor organization. 

‘‘(D) HEALTH.—The worker is unable to participate 
in training due to the health of the 
worker, except that a waiver under this subparagraph 
shall not be construed to exempt a 
worker from requirements relating to the availability 
for work, active search for work, or refusal 
to accept work under Federal or State unemployment 
compensation laws. 

‘‘(E) ENROLLMENT UNAVAILABLE.—The first 
available enrollment date for the approved 
training of the worker is within 60 days after 
the date of the determination made under this 
paragraph, or, if later, there are extenuating 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4897 

circumstances for the delay in enrollment, as determined 
pursuant to guidelines issued by the 
Secretary. 

‘‘(F) TRAINING NOT AVAILABLE.—Training approved 
by the Secretary is not reasonably available 
to the worker from either governmental 
agencies or private sources (which may include 
area vocational education schools, as defined in 
section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and 
Technical Education Act of 1998 (20 U.S.C. 
2302), and employers), no training that is suitable 
for the worker is available at a reasonable 
cost, or no training funds are available. 

‘‘(G) OTHER.—The Secretary may, at his discretion, 
issue a waiver if the Secretary determines 
that a worker has set forth in writing reasons 
other than those provided for in subparagraphs 
(A) through (F) justifying the grant of 
such waiver. 

‘‘(2) DURATION OF WAIVERS.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A waiver issued under 
paragraph (1) shall be effective for not more 
than 6 months after the date on which the waiver 
is issued, unless the Secretary determines otherwise. 


‘‘(B) REVOCATION.—The Secretary shall revoke 
a waiver issued under paragraph (1) if the 
Secretary determines that the basis of a waiver 
is no longer applicable to the worker. 

‘‘(3) AMENDMENTS UNDER SECTION 222.— 

‘‘(A) ISSUANCE BY COOPERATING STATES.—Pursuant 
to an agreement under section 222, the 
Secretary may authorize a cooperating State to 
issue waivers as described in paragraph (1). 

‘‘(B) SUBMISSION OF STATEMENTS.—An agreement 
under section 222 shall include a requirement 
that the cooperating State submit to the 
Secretary the written statements provided under 
paragraph (1) and a statement of the reasons for 
the waiver. 

‘‘SEC. 236. WEEKLY AMOUNTS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsections (b) 
and (c), the trade adjustment allowance payable 
to an adversely affected worker for a week of 
total unemployment shall be an amount equal to 
the most recent weekly benefit amount of the 
unemployment insurance payable to the worker 
for a week of total unemployment preceding the 
worker’s first exhaustion of unemployment insurance 
(as determined for purposes of section 
235(a)(3)(B)) reduced (but not below zero) by— 

‘‘(1) any training allowance deductible under 
subsection (c); and 

‘‘(2) any income that is deductible from unemployment 
insurance under the disqualifying income 
provisions of the applicable State law or 
Federal unemployment insurance law. 

‘‘(b) ADJUSTMENT FOR WORKERS RECEIVING 
TRAINING.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Any adversely affected 
worker who is entitled to a trade adjustment allowance 
and who is receiving training approved 
by the Secretary, shall receive for each week in 
which the worker is undergoing that training, a 
trade adjustment allowance in an amount (computed 
for such week) equal to the greater of— 

‘‘(A) the amount computed under subsection 
(a); or 

‘‘(B) the amount of any weekly allowance for 
that training to which the worker would be entitled 
under any other Federal law for the training 
of workers, if the worker applied for that allowance. 


‘‘(2) ALLOWANCE PAID IN LIEU OF.—Any trade 
adjustment allowance calculated under paragraph 
(1) shall be paid in lieu of any training 
allowance to which the worker would be entitled 
under any other Federal law. 

‘‘(3) COORDINATION WITH UNEMPLOYMENT IN-
SURANCE.—Any week in which a worker undergoing 
training approved by the Secretary receives 
payments from unemployment insurance 
shall be subtracted from the total number of 
weeks for which a worker may receive trade adjustment 
allowance under this chapter. 

‘‘(c) ADJUSTMENT FOR WORKERS RECEIVING 
ALLOWANCES UNDER OTHER FEDERAL LAW.— 

‘‘(1) REDUCTION IN WEEKS FOR WHICH ALLOWANCE 
WILL BE PAID.—If a training allowance 
under any Federal law (other than this Act) is 
paid to an adversely affected worker for any 
week of unemployment with respect to which 
the worker would be entitled (determined without 
regard to any disqualification under section 
235(b)) to a trade adjustment allowance if the 
worker applied for that allowance, each week of 
unemployment shall be deducted from the total 
number of weeks of trade adjustment allowance 
otherwise payable to that worker under section 
235(a) when the worker applies for a trade adjustment 
allowance and is determined to be entitled 
to the allowance. 

‘‘(2) PAYMENT OF DIFFERENCE.—If the training 
allowance paid to a worker for any week of unemployment 
is less than the amount of the trade 
adjustment allowance to which the worker 
would be entitled if the worker applied for the 
trade adjustment allowance, the worker shall 
receive, when the worker applies for a trade adjustment 
allowance and is determined to be entitled 
to the allowance, a trade adjustment allowance 
for that week equal to the difference between 
the training allowance and the trade adjustment 
allowance computed under subsection 
(b). 

‘‘SEC. 237. LIMITATIONS ON TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ALLOWANCES. 

‘‘(a) AMOUNT PAYABLE.—The maximum 
amount of trade adjustment allowance payable 
to an adversely affected worker, with respect to 
the period covered by any certification, shall be 
the amount that is the product of 104 multiplied 
by the trade adjustment allowance payable to 
the worker for a week of total unemployment (as 
determined under section 236) reduced by the 
total sum of the regular State unemployment insurance 
to which the worker was entitled (or 
would have been entitled if the worker had applied 
for unemployment insurance) in the worker’s 
first benefit period described in section 
235(a)(3)(A). 

‘‘(b) DURATION OF PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph 
(2), a trade adjustment allowance shall 
not be paid for any week occurring after the 
close of the 104-week period that begins with the 
first week following the week in which the adversely 
affected worker was most recently totally 
separated— 

‘‘(A) within the period that is described in section 
235(a)(1); and 

‘‘(B) with respect to which the worker meets 
the requirements of section 235(a)(2). 

‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULES.— 

‘‘(A) BREAK IN TRAINING.—For purposes of 
this chapter, a worker shall be treated as participating 
in a training program approved by 
the Secretary under section 240(a) during any 
week that is part of a break in a training that 
does not exceed 30 days if— 

‘‘(i) the worker was participating in a training 
program approved under section 240(a) before 
the beginning of the break in training; and 

‘‘(ii) the break is provided under the training 
program. 

‘‘(B) ON-THE-JOB TRAINING.—No trade adjustment 
allowance shall be paid to a worker under 
this chapter for any week during which the 
worker is receiving on-the-job training, except 
that a trade adjustment allowance shall be paid 
if a worker is enrolled in a non-paid customized 
training program. 

‘‘(C) SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION PILOT 
PROGRAM.—An adversely affected worker who is 
participating in a self-employment training program 
established by the Director of the Small 
Business Administration pursuant to section 102 
of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act 
of 2002, shall not be ineligible to receive benefits 
under this chapter. 

‘‘(D) ADDITIONAL WEEKS FOR REMEDIAL EDU-
CATION.—Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this section, in order to assist an adversely 
affected worker to complete training approved 
for the worker under section 240, if the program 

is a program of remedial education in accordance 
with regulations prescribed by the Secretary, 
payments may be made as trade adjustment 
allowances for up to 26 additional weeks 
in the 26-week period that follows the last week 
of entitlement to trade adjustment allowances 
otherwise payable under this chapter. 

‘‘(c) ADJUSTMENT OF AMOUNTS PAYABLE.— 
Amounts payable to an adversely affected worker 
under this chapter shall be subject to adjustment 
on a week-to-week basis as may be required 
by section 236. 

‘‘(d) YEAR-END ADJUSTMENT.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act or any other provision of 
law, if the benefit year of a worker ends within 
an extended benefit period, the number of weeks 
of extended benefits that the worker would, but 
for this subsection, be entitled to in that extended 
benefit period shall not be reduced by 
the number of weeks for which the worker was 
entitled, during that benefit year, to trade adjustment 
allowances under this part. 

‘‘(2) EXTENDED BENEFITS PERIOD.—For the 
purpose of this section the term ‘extended benefit 
period’ has the same meaning given that 
term in the Federal-State Extended Unemployment 
Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 
note). 
‘‘SEC. 238. APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except where inconsistent 
with the provisions of this chapter and subject 
to such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, 
the availability and disqualification provisions 
of the State law under which an adversely 
affected worker is entitled to unemployment 
insurance (whether or not the worker has 
filed a claim for such insurance), or, if the 
worker is not so entitled to unemployment insurance, 
of the State in which the worker was totally 
or partially separated, shall apply to a 
worker that files an application for trade adjustment 
assistance. 

‘‘(b) DURATION OF APPLICABILITY.—The State 
law determined to be applicable with respect to 
a separation of an adversely affected worker 
shall remain applicable for purposes of subsection 
(a), with respect to a separation until 
the worker becomes entitled to unemployment 
insurance under another State law (whether or 
not the worker has filed a claim for that insurance). 


‘‘PART III—EMPLOYMENT SERVICES, 
TRAINING, AND OTHER ALLOWANCES 
‘‘SEC. 239. EMPLOYMENT SERVICES. 

‘‘The Secretary shall, in accordance with section 
222 or 223, as applicable, make every reasonable 
effort to secure for adversely affected 
workers covered by a certification under section 
231, counseling, testing, placement, and other 
services provided for under any other Federal 
law. 

‘‘SEC. 240. TRAINING. 

‘‘(a) APPROVED TRAINING PROGRAMS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall approve 
training programs that include— 

‘‘(A) on-the-job training or customized training; 


‘‘(B) any employment or training activity provided 
through a one-stop delivery system under 
chapter 5 of subtitle B of title I of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2861 et seq.); 

‘‘(C) any program of adult education; 

‘‘(D) any training program (other than a 
training program described in paragraph (3)) for 
which all, or any portion, of the costs of training 
the worker are paid— 

‘‘(i) under any Federal or State program other 
than this chapter; or 

‘‘(ii) from any source other than this section; 
and 

‘‘(E) any other training program that the Secretary 
determines is acceptable to meet the needs 
of an adversely affected worker. 

In making the determination under subparagraph 
(E), the Secretary shall consult with interested 
parties. 


S4898 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

‘‘(2) TRAINING AGREEMENTS.—Before approving 
any training to which subsection (f)(1)(C) 
may apply, the Secretary may require that the 
adversely affected worker enter into an agreement 
with the Secretary under which the Secretary 
will not be required to pay under subsection 
(b) the portion of the costs of the training 
that the worker has reason to believe will be 
paid under the program, or by the source, described 
in clause (i) or (ii) of subsection 
(f)(1)(C). 

‘‘(3) LIMITATION ON APPROVALS.—The Secretary 
shall not approve a training program if 
all of the following apply: 

‘‘(A) PAYMENT BY PLAN.—Any portion of the 
costs of the training program are paid under 
any nongovernmental plan or program. 

‘‘(B) RIGHT TO OBTAIN.—The adversely affected 
worker has a right to obtain training or 
funds for training under that plan or program. 

‘‘(C) REIMBURSEMENT.—The plan or program 
requires the worker to reimburse the plan or 
program from funds provided under this chapter, 
or from wages paid under the training program, 
for any portion of the costs of that training 
program paid under the plan or program. 

‘‘(b) PAYMENT OF TRAINING COSTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Upon approval of a training 
program under subsection (a), and subject to 
the limitations imposed by this section, an adversely 
affected worker covered by a certification 
issued under section 231 may be eligible 
to have payment of the costs of that training, 
including any costs of an approved training 
program incurred by a worker before a certification 
was issued under section 231, made on behalf 
of the worker by the Secretary directly or 
through a voucher system. 

‘‘(2) ON-THE-JOB TRAINING AND CUSTOMIZED 
TRAINING.— 

‘‘(A) PROVISION OF TRAINING ON THE JOB OR 
CUSTOMIZED TRAINING.—If the Secretary approves 
training under subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall, insofar as possible, provide or assure 
the provision of that training on the job or 
customized training, and any training on the 
job or customized training that is approved by 
the Secretary under subsection (a) shall include 
related education necessary for the acquisition 
of skills needed for a position within a particular 
occupation. 

‘‘(B) MONTHLY INSTALLMENTS.—If the Secretary 
approves payment of any on-the-job 
training or customized training under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall pay the costs of 
that training in equal monthly installments. 

‘‘(C) LIMITATIONS.—The Secretary may pay 
the costs of on-the-job training or customized 
training only if— 

‘‘(i) no employed worker is displaced by the 
adversely affected worker (including partial displacement 
such as a reduction in the hours of 
nonovertime work, wages, or employment benefits); 


‘‘(ii) the training does not impair contracts for 
services or collective bargaining agreements; 

‘‘(iii) in the case of training that would affect 
a collective bargaining agreement, the written 
concurrence of the labor organization concerned 
has been obtained; 

‘‘(iv) no other individual is on layoff from the 
same, or any substantially equivalent, job for 
which the adversely affected worker is being 
trained; 

‘‘(v) the employer has not terminated the employment 
of any regular employee or otherwise 
reduced the workforce of the employer with the 
intention of filling the vacancy so created by 
hiring the adversely affected worker; 

‘‘(vi) the job for which the adversely affected 
worker is being trained is not being created in a 
promotional line that will infringe in any way 
upon the promotional opportunities of employed 
individuals; 

‘‘(vii) the training is not for the same occupation 
from which the worker was separated and 
with respect to which the worker’s group was 
certified pursuant to section 231; 

‘‘(viii) the employer is provided reimbursement 
of not more than 50 percent of the wage rate of 
the participant, for the cost of providing the 
training and additional supervision related to 
the training; 

‘‘(ix) the employer has not received payment 
under subsection (b)(1) with respect to any other 
on-the-job training provided by the employer or 
customized training that failed to meet the requirements 
of clauses (i) through (vi); and 

‘‘(x) the employer has not taken, at any time, 
any action that violated the terms of any certification 
described in clause (viii) made by that 
employer with respect to any other on-the-job 
training provided by the employer or customized 
training for which the Secretary has made a 
payment under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(c) CERTAIN WORKERS ELIGIBLE FOR TRAINING 
BENEFITS.—An adversely affected worker 
covered by a certification issued under section 
231, who is not qualified to receive a trade adjustment 
allowance under section 235, may be eligible 
to have payment of the costs of training 
made under this section, if the worker enters a 
training program approved by the Secretary not 
later than 6 months after the date on which the 
certification that covers the worker is issued or 
the Secretary determines that one of the following 
applied: 

‘‘(1) Funding was not available at the time at 
which the adversely affected worker was required 
to enter training under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(2) The adversely affected worker was covered 
by a waiver issued under section 235(c). 

‘‘(d) EXHAUSTION OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 
NOT REQUIRED.—The Secretary may approve 
training, and pay the costs thereof, for 
any adversely affected worker who is a member 
of a group certified under section 231 at any 
time after the date on which the group is certified, 
without regard to whether the worker has 
exhausted all rights to any unemployment insurance 
to which the worker is entitled. 

‘‘(e) SUPPLEMENTAL ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraphs (2) 
and (3), when training is provided under a 
training program approved by the Secretary 
under subsection (a) in facilities that are not 
within commuting distance of a worker’s regular 
place of residence, the Secretary may authorize 
supplemental assistance to defray reasonable 
transportation and subsistence expenses for separate 
maintenance. 

‘‘(2) TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES.—The Secretary 
may not authorize payments for travel 
expenses exceeding the prevailing mileage rate 
authorized under the Federal travel regulations. 

‘‘(3) SUBSISTENCE EXPENSES.—The Secretary 
may not authorize payments for subsistence that 
exceed the lesser of— 

‘‘(A) the actual per diem expenses for subsistence 
of the worker; or 

‘‘(B) an amount equal to 50 percent of the prevailing 
per diem allowance rate authorized 
under Federal travel regulations. 

‘‘(f) SPECIAL PROVISIONS; LIMITATIONS.— 

‘‘(1) LIMITATION ON MAKING PAYMENTS.— 

‘‘(A) DISALLOWANCE OF OTHER PAYMENT.—If 
the costs of training an adversely affected worker 
are paid by the Secretary under subsection 
(b), no other payment for those training costs 
may be made under any other provision of Federal 
law. 

‘‘(B) NO PAYMENT OF REIMBURSABLE COSTS.— 
No payment for the costs of approved training 
may be made under subsection (b) if those 
costs— 

‘‘(i) have already been paid under any other 
provision of Federal law; or 

‘‘(ii) are reimbursable under any other provision 
of Federal law and a portion of those costs 
has already been paid under that other provision 
of Federal law. 

‘‘(C) NO PAYMENT OF COSTS PAID ELSEWHERE.—
The Secretary is not required to pay 
the costs of any training approved under subsection 
(a) to the extent that those costs are 
paid under any Federal or State program other 
than this chapter. 

‘‘(D) EXCEPTION.—The provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply to, or take into account, 
any funds provided under any other provision 
of Federal law that are used for any purpose 
other than the direct payment of the costs 
incurred in training a particular adversely affected 
worker, even if the use of those funds has 
the effect of indirectly paying for or reducing 
any portion of the costs involved in training the 
adversely affected worker. 

‘‘(2) UNEMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY.—A worker 
may not be determined to be ineligible or disqualified 
for unemployment insurance or program 
benefits under this subchapter because the 
individual is in training approved under subsection 
(a), because of leaving work which is not 
suitable employment to enter the training, or because 
of the application to any week in training 
of provisions of State law or Federal unemployment 
insurance law relating to availability for 
work, active search for work, or refusal to accept 
work. 

‘‘(3) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section 
the term ‘suitable employment’ means, with respect 
to a worker, work of a substantially equal 
or higher skill level than the worker’s past adversely 
affected employment, and wages for 
such work at not less than 80 percent of the 
worker’s average weekly wage. 

‘‘(4) PAYMENTS AFTER REEMPLOYMENT.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of an adversely 
affected worker who secures reemployment, the 
Secretary may approve and pay the costs of 
training (or shall continue to pay the costs of 
training previously approved) for that adversely 
affected worker, for the completion of the training 
program or up to 26 weeks, whichever is less, 
after the date the adversely affected worker becomes 
reemployed. 

‘‘(B) TRADE ADJUSTMENT ALLOWANCE.—An adversely 
affected worker who is reemployed and 
is undergoing training approved by the Secretary 
pursuant to subparagraph (A) may continue 
to receive a trade adjustment allowance, 
subject to the income offsets provided for in the 
worker’s State unemployment compensation law 
in accordance with the provisions of section 237. 

‘‘(5) FUNDING.—The total amount of payments 
that may be made under this section for any fiscal 
year shall not exceed $300,000,000. 

‘‘SEC. 240A. JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS. 

‘‘(a) GRANT PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary 
is authorized to award grants to community 
colleges (as defined in section 202 of the 
Tech-Prep Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2371)) on a 
competitive basis to establish job training programs 
for adversely affected workers. 

‘‘(b) APPLICATION.— 

‘‘(1) SUBMISSION.—To receive a grant under 
this section, a community college shall submit 
an application to the Secretary at such time and 
in such manner as the Secretary shall require. 

‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—The application submitted 
under paragraph (1) shall provide a description 
of— 

‘‘(A) the population to be served with grant 
funds received under this section; 

‘‘(B) how grant funds received under this section 
will be expended; and 

‘‘(C) the job training programs that will be established 
with grant funds received under this 
section, including a description of how such 
programs relate to workforce needs in the area 
where the community college is located. 

‘‘(c) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible to receive a 
grant under this section, a community college 
shall be located in an eligible community (as defined 
in section 271). 

‘‘(d) DECISION ON APPLICATIONS.—Not later 
than 30 days after submission of an application 
under subsection (b), the Secretary shall approve 
or disapprove the application. 

‘‘(e) USE OF FUNDS.—A community college 
that receives a grant under this section shall use 
the grant funds to establish job training programs 
for adversely affected workers. 

‘‘SEC. 241. JOB SEARCH ALLOWANCES. 

‘‘(a) JOB SEARCH ALLOWANCE AUTHORIZED.— 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4899 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An adversely affected 
worker covered by a certification issued under 
section 231 may file an application with the Secretary 
for payment of a job search allowance. 

‘‘(2) APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS.—The Secretary 
may grant an allowance pursuant to an 
application filed under paragraph (1) when all 
of the following apply: 

‘‘(A) ASSIST ADVERSELY AFFECTED WORKER.— 
The allowance is paid to assist an adversely affected 
worker who has been totally separated in 
securing a job within the United States. 

‘‘(B) LOCAL EMPLOYMENT NOT AVAILABLE.— 
The Secretary determines that the worker cannot 
reasonably be expected to secure suitable 
employment in the commuting area in which the 
worker resides. 

‘‘(C) APPLICATION.—The worker has filed an 
application for the allowance with the Secretary 
before— 

‘‘(i) the later of— 

‘‘(I) the 365th day after the date of the certification 
under which the worker is certified as eligible; 
or 

‘‘(II) the 365th day after the date of the worker’s 
last total separation; or 

‘‘(ii) the date that is the 182d day after the 
date on which the worker concluded training, 
unless the worker received a waiver under section 
235(c). 

‘‘(b) AMOUNT OF ALLOWANCE.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An allowance granted 
under subsection (a) shall provide reimbursement 
to the worker of 90 percent of the cost of 
necessary job search expenses as prescribed by 
the Secretary in regulations. 

‘‘(2) MAXIMUM ALLOWANCE.—Reimbursement 
under this subsection may not exceed $1,250 for 
any worker. 

‘‘(3) ALLOWANCE FOR SUBSISTENCE AND TRANSPORTATION.—
Reimbursement under this subsection 
may not be made for subsistence and 
transportation expenses at levels exceeding 
those allowable under section 240(e). 

‘‘(c) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding subsection 
(b), the Secretary shall reimburse any adversely 
affected worker for necessary expenses incurred 
by the worker in participating in a job search 
program approved by the Secretary. 

‘‘SEC. 242. RELOCATION ALLOWANCES. 

‘‘(a) RELOCATION ALLOWANCE AUTHORIZED.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Any adversely affected 
worker covered by a certification issued under 
section 231 may file an application for a relocation 
allowance with the Secretary, and the Secretary 
may grant the relocation allowance, subject 
to the terms and conditions of this section. 

‘‘(2) CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING ALLOWANCE.— 
A relocation allowance may be granted if all of 
the following terms and conditions are met: 

‘‘(A) ASSIST AN ADVERSELY AFFECTED WORK-
ER.—The relocation allowance will assist an adversely 
affected worker in relocating within the 
United States. 

‘‘(B) LOCAL EMPLOYMENT NOT AVAILABLE.— 
The Secretary determines that the worker cannot 
reasonably be expected to secure suitable 
employment in the commuting area in which the 
worker resides. 

‘‘(C) TOTAL SEPARATION.—The worker is totally 
separated from employment at the time relocation 
commences. 

‘‘(D) SUITABLE EMPLOYMENT OBTAINED.—The 
worker— 

‘‘(i) has obtained suitable employment affording 
a reasonable expectation of long-term duration 
in the area in which the worker wishes to 
relocate; or 

‘‘(ii) has obtained a bona fide offer of such 
employment. 

‘‘(E) APPLICATION.—The worker filed an application 
with the Secretary before— 

‘‘(i) the later of— 

‘‘(I) the 425th day after the date of the certification 
under section 231; or 

‘‘(II) the 425th day after the date of the worker’s 
last total separation; or 

‘‘(ii) the date that is the 182d day after the 
date on which the worker concluded training, 
unless the worker received a waiver under section 
235(c). 

‘‘(b) AMOUNT OF ALLOWANCE.—The relocation 
allowance granted to a worker under subsection 

(a) includes— 
‘‘(1) 90 percent of the reasonable and necessary 
expenses (including, but not limited to, 
subsistence and transportation expenses at levels 
not exceeding those allowable under section 
240(e)) specified in regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary, incurred in transporting the worker, 
the worker’s family, and household effects; and 

‘‘(2) a lump sum equivalent to 3 times the 
worker’s average weekly wage, up to a maximum 
payment of $1,250. 

‘‘(c) LIMITATIONS.—A relocation allowance 
may not be granted to a worker unless— 

‘‘(1) the relocation occurs within 182 days 
after the filing of the application for relocation 
assistance; or 

‘‘(2) the relocation occurs within 182 days 
after the conclusion of training, if the worker 
entered a training program approved by the Secretary 
under section 240(a). 

‘‘SEC. 243. SUPPORTIVE SERVICES; WAGE INSURANCE. 


‘‘(a) SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.— 

‘‘(1) APPLICATION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The State may, on behalf 
of any adversely affected worker or group of 
workers covered by a certification issued under 
section 231— 

‘‘(i) file an application with the Secretary for 
services under section 173 of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (relating to National Emergency 
Grants); and 

‘‘(ii) provide other services under title I of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998. 

‘‘(B) SERVICES.—The services available under 
this paragraph include transportation, child 
care, and dependent care that are necessary to 
enable a worker to participate in activities authorized 
under this chapter. 

‘‘(2) CONDITIONS.—The Secretary may approve 
an application filed under paragraph (1)(A)(i) 
and provide supportive services to an adversely 
affected worker only if the Secretary determines 
that all of the following apply: 

‘‘(A) NECESSITY.—Providing services is necessary 
to enable the worker to participate in or 
complete training. 

‘‘(B) CONSISTENT WITH WORKFORCE INVESTMENT 
ACT.—The services are consistent with the 
supportive services provided to participants 
under the provisions relating to dislocated worker 
employment and training activities set forth 
in chapter 5 of subtitle B of title I of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2861 et 
seq.). 

‘‘(b) WAGE INSURANCE PROGRAM.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after 
the date of enactment of the Trade Adjustment 
Assistance Reform Act of 2002, the Secretary 
shall establish, and the States shall implement, 
a Wage Insurance Program under which a State 
shall use the funds provided to the State for 
trade adjustment allowances to pay to an adversely 
affected worker certified under section 
231 a wage subsidy of up to 50 percent of the 
difference between the wages received by the adversely 
affected worker from reemployment and 
the wages received by the adversely affected 
worker at the time of separation for a period not 
to exceed 2 years. 

‘‘(2) AMOUNT OF PAYMENT.— 

‘‘(A) WAGES UNDER $40,000.—If the wages the 
worker receives from reemployment are less than 
$40,000 a year, the wage subsidy shall be 50 percent 
of the difference between the amount of the 
wages received by the worker from reemployment 
and the amount of the wages received by 
the worker at the time of separation. 

‘‘(B) WAGES BETWEEN $40,000 AND $50,000.—If 
the wages received by the worker from reemployment 
are greater than $40,000 a year but less 
than $50,000 a year, the wage subsidy shall be 25 

percent of the difference between the amount of 
the wages received by the worker from reemployment 
and the amount of the wages received by 
the worker at the time of separation. 

‘‘(3) ELIGIBILITY.—An adversely affected 
worker may be eligible to receive a wage subsidy 
under this subsection if the worker— 

‘‘(A) enrolls in the Wage Insurance Program; 

‘‘(B) obtains reemployment not more than 26 
weeks after the date of separation from the adversely 
affected employment; 

‘‘(C) is at least 50 years of age; 

‘‘(D) earns not more than $50,000 a year in 
wages from reemployment; 

‘‘(E) is employed on a full-time basis as defined 
by State law in the State in which the 
worker is employed; and 

‘‘(F) does not return to the employment from 
which the worker was separated. 

‘‘(4) AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS.—The payments 
made under paragraph (1) to an adversely affected 
worker may not exceed $5,000 a year for 
each year of the 2-year period. 

‘‘(5) LIMITATION ON OTHER BENEFITS.—At the 
time a worker begins to receive a wage subsidy 
under this subsection the worker shall not be eligible 
to receive any benefits under this Act 
other than the wage subsidy unless the Secretary 
determines, pursuant to standards established 
by the Secretary, that the worker has 
shown circumstances that warrant eligibility for 
training benefits under section 240. 

‘‘(6) FUNDING.—The total amount of payments 
that may be made under this subsection for any 
fiscal year shall not exceed $50,000,000. 

‘‘(7) TERMINATION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph 
(B), no payments may be made under 
this subsection after the date that is 2 years 
after the date on which the program under this 
subsection is implemented in the State under 
paragraph (1). 

‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding subparagraph 
(A), a worker receiving payments under 
this subsection on the date described in subparagraph 
(A) shall continue to receive such 
payments for as long as the worker meets the 
eligibility requirements of this subsection. 

‘‘(c) STUDIES OF ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE TO 
ECONOMICALLY DISTRESSED WORKERS.— 

‘‘(1) STUDY BY THE GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE.— 


‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General of 
the United States shall conduct a study of all 
assistance provided by the Federal Government 
for workers facing job loss and economic distress. 


‘‘(B) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of the Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Reform Act of 2002, the Comptroller 
General shall submit to the Committee on Finance 
of the Senate and the Committee on Ways 
and Means of the House of Representatives a report 
on the study conducted under subparagraph 
(A). The report shall include a description 
of— 

‘‘(i) all Federal programs designed to assist 
workers facing job loss and economic distress, 
including all benefits and services; 

‘‘(ii) eligibility requirements for each of the 
programs; and 

‘‘(iii) procedures for applying for and receiving 
benefits and services under each of the programs. 


‘‘(C) DISTRIBUTION OF GAO REPORT.—The report 
described in subparagraph (B) shall be distributed 
to all one-stop partners authorized 
under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998. 

‘‘(2) STUDIES BY THE STATES.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each State may conduct a 
study of its assistance programs for workers facing 
job loss and economic distress. 

‘‘(B) GRANTS.—The Secretary may award to 
each State a grant, not to exceed $50,000, to enable 
the State to conduct the study described in 
subparagraph (A). Each study shall be undertaken 
in consultation with affected parties. 

‘‘(C) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the 
date of the grant, each State that receives a 


S4900 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

grant under subparagraph (B) shall submit to 
the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives the report described in subparagraph 
(A). 

‘‘(D) DISTRIBUTION OF STATE REPORTS.—A report 
prepared by a State under this paragraph 
shall be distributed to all the one-stop partners 
in the State. 

‘‘Subchapter D—Payment and Enforcement 
Provisions 
‘‘SEC. 244. PAYMENTS TO STATES. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, from time to 
time, shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury 
for payment to each cooperating State, the 
sums necessary to enable that State as agent of 
the United States to make payments provided 
for by this chapter. 

‘‘(b) LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—All money paid to a cooperating 
State under this section shall be used solely 
for the purposes for which it is paid. 

‘‘(2) RETURN OF FUNDS NOT SO USED.—Money 
paid that is not used for the purpose for which 
it is paid under subsection (a) shall be returned 
to the Secretary of the Treasury at the time 
specified in the agreement entered into under 
section 222. 

‘‘(c) SURETY BOND.—Any agreement under 
section 222 may require any officer or employee 
of the cooperating State certifying payments or 
disbursing funds under the agreement or otherwise 
participating in the performance of the 
agreement, to give a surety bond to the United 
States in an amount the Secretary deems necessary, 
and may provide for the payment of the 
cost of that bond from funds for carrying out 
the purposes of this chapter. 

‘‘SEC. 245. LIABILITIES OF CERTIFYING AND DISBURSING 
OFFICERS. 

‘‘(a) LIABILITY OF CERTIFYING OFFICIALS.—No 
person designated by the Secretary, or designated 
pursuant to an agreement entered into 
under section 222, as a certifying officer, in the 
absence of gross negligence or intent to defraud 
the United States, shall be liable with respect to 
any payment certified by that person under this 
chapter. 

‘‘(b) LIABILITY OF DISBURSING OFFICERS.—No 
disbursing officer, in the absence of gross negligence 
or intent to defraud the United States, 
shall be liable with respect to any payment by 
that officer under this chapter if the payment 
was based on a voucher signed by a certifying 
officer designated according to subsection (a). 

‘‘SEC. 246. FRAUD AND RECOVERY OF OVERPAYMENTS. 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(1) OVERPAYMENT.—If a cooperating State, 
the Secretary, or a court of competent jurisdiction 
determines that any person has received 
any payment under this chapter to which the 
person was not entitled, including a payment 
referred to in subsection (b), that person shall be 
liable to repay that amount to the cooperating 
State or the Secretary, as the case may be. 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—The cooperating State or 
the Secretary may waive repayment if the cooperating 
State or the Secretary determines, in 
accordance with guidelines prescribed by the 
Secretary, that all of the following apply: 

‘‘(A) NO FAULT.—The payment was made 
without fault on the part of the person. 

‘‘(B) REPAYMENT CONTRARY TO EQUITY.—Requiring 
repayment would be contrary to equity 
and good conscience. 

‘‘(3) PROCEDURE FOR RECOVERY.— 

‘‘(A) RECOVERY FROM OTHER ALLOWANCES AUTHORIZED.—
Unless an overpayment is otherwise 
recovered or waived under paragraph (2), the 
cooperating State or the Secretary shall recover 
the overpayment by deductions from any sums 
payable to that person under this chapter, 
under any Federal unemployment compensation 
law administered by the cooperating State or the 
Secretary, or under any other Federal law administered 
by the cooperating State or the Sec


retary that provides for the payment of assistance 
or an allowance with respect to unemployment. 


‘‘(B) RECOVERY FROM STATE ALLOWANCES AU-
THORIZED.—Notwithstanding any other provision 
of Federal or State law, the Secretary may 
require a cooperating State to recover any overpayment 
under this chapter by deduction from 
any unemployment insurance payable to that 
person under State law, except that no single 
deduction under this paragraph shall exceed 50 
percent of the amount otherwise payable. 

‘‘(b) INELIGIBILITY FOR FURTHER PAYMENTS.— 
Any person, in addition to any other penalty 
provided by law, shall be ineligible for any further 
payments under this chapter if a cooperating 
State, the Secretary, or a court of competent 
jurisdiction determines that one of the 
following applies: 

‘‘(1) FALSE STATEMENT.—The person knowingly 
made, or caused another to make, a false 
statement or representation of a material fact, 
and as a result of the false statement or representation, 
the person received any payment 
under this chapter to which the person was not 
entitled. 

‘‘(2) FAILURE TO DISCLOSE.—The person knowingly 
failed, or caused another to fail, to disclose 
a material fact, and as a result of the nondisclosure, 
the person received any payment 
under this chapter to which the person was not 
entitled. 

‘‘(c) HEARING.—Except for overpayments determined 
by a court of competent jurisdiction, 
no repayment may be required, and no deduction 
may be made, under this section until a determination 
under subsection (a) by the cooperating 
State or the Secretary, as the case may be, 
has been made, notice of the determination and 
an opportunity for a fair hearing has been given 
to the person concerned, and the determination 
has become final. 

‘‘(d) RECOVERED FUNDS.—Any amount recovered 
under this section shall be returned to the 
Treasury of the United States. 

‘‘SEC. 247. CRIMINAL PENALTIES. 

‘‘Whoever makes a false statement of a material 
fact knowing it to be false, or knowingly 
fails to disclose a material fact, for the purpose 
of obtaining or increasing for that person or for 
any other person any payment authorized to be 
furnished under this chapter or pursuant to an 
agreement under section 222 shall be fined not 
more than $10,000, imprisoned for not more than 
1 year, or both. 

‘‘SEC. 248. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Department of Labor, for the period beginning 
October 1, 2001, and ending September 30, 
2007, such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the purposes of this chapter, including such 
additional sums for administrative expenses as 
may be necessary for the department to meet the 
increased workload created by the Trade Adjustment 
Assistance Reform Act of 2002, provided 
that funding provided for training services 
shall not be used for expenses of administering 
the trade adjustment assistance for workers program. 
Amounts appropriated under this section 
shall remain available until expended. 

‘‘SEC. 249. REGULATIONS. 

‘‘The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations 
as may be necessary to carry out the provisions 
of this chapter. 

‘‘SEC. 250. SUBPOENA POWER. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may require 
by subpoena the attendance of witnesses and 
the production of evidence necessary to make a 
determination under the provisions of this chapter. 


‘‘(b) COURT ORDER.—If a person refuses to 
obey a subpoena issued under subsection (a), a 
competent United States district court, upon petition 
by the Secretary, may issue an order requiring 
compliance with such subpoena.’’. 

SEC. 112. DISPLACED WORKER SELF-EMPLOYMENT 
TRAINING PILOT PROGRAM. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 6 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
of the Small Business Administration 
(in this section referred to as the ‘‘Administrator’’) 
shall establish a self-employment training 
program (in this section referred to as the 
‘‘Program’’) for adversely affected workers (as 
defined in chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act 
of 1974), to be administered by the Small Business 
Administration. 
(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE.—If an adversely 
affected worker seeks or receives assistance 
through the Program, such action shall 
not affect the eligibility of that worker to receive 
benefits under chapter 2 of title II of the Trade 
Act of 1974. 
(c) TRAINING ASSISTANCE.—The Program shall 
include, at a minimum, training in— 
(1) pre-business startup planning; 
(2) awareness of basic credit practices and 
credit requirements; and 
(3) developing business plans, financial packages, 
and credit applications. 
(d) OUTREACH.—The Program should include 
outreach to adversely affected workers and 
counseling and lending partners of the Small 
Business Administration. 
(e) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—Beginning not 
later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall submit quarterly 
reports to the Committee on Finance and 
the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
of the Senate and the Committee on 
Ways and Means and the Committee on Small 
Business of the House of Representatives regarding 
the implementation of the Program, including 
Program delivery, staffing, and administrative 
expenses related to such implementation. 
(f) GUIDELINES.—Not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
shall issue such guidelines as the Administrator 
determines to be necessary to carry out 
the Program. 
(g) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The Program shall terminate 
3 years after the date of final publication 
of guidelines under subsection (f). 
TITLE II—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR FIRMS 
SEC. 201. REAUTHORIZATION OF PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 256(b) of chapter 3 
of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2346(b)) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(b) There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary $16,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2002 through 2007, to carry out the Secretary’s 
functions under this chapter in connection 
with furnishing adjustment assistance to 
firms. Amounts appropriated under this subsection 
shall remain available until expended.’’. 

(b) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.—Section 251(c) of 
chapter 3 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 
U.S.C. 2341(c)) is amended— 
(1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows: 
‘‘(1) The Secretary shall certify a firm (including 
any agricultural firm) as eligible to apply 
for adjustment assistance under this chapter if 
the Secretary determines that a significant number 
or proportion of the workers in such firm 
have become totally or partially separated, or 
are threatened to become totally or partially 
separated, and that either— 

‘‘(A)(i)(I) sales or production, or both, of the 
firm have decreased absolutely, or 

‘‘(II) sales or production, or both, of an article 
that accounted for not less than 25 percent of 
the total production or sales of the firm during 
the 12-month period for which data are available 
have decreased absolutely; and 

‘‘(ii) increases in the value or volume of imports 
of articles like or directly competitive with 
articles which are produced by such firm contributed 
importantly to such total or partial separation, 
or threat thereof, and to such decline 
in sales or production; or 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4901 

‘‘(B) a shift in production by the workers’ 
firm or subdivision to a foreign country of articles 
like or directly competitive with articles 
which are produced by that firm or subdivision 
contributed importantly to the workers’ separation 
or threat of separation.’’; and 

(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘paragraph 
(1)(C)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (1)’’. 
TITLE III—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 

ASSISTANCE FOR COMMUNITIES 
SEC. 301. PURPOSE. 

The purpose of this title is to assist communities 
with economic adjustment through the integration 
of political and economic organizations, 
the coordination of Federal, State, and 
local resources, the creation of community-based 
development strategies, and the provision of economic 
transition assistance. 

SEC. 302. TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR 
COMMUNITIES. 

Chapter 4 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2371 et seq.) is amended to read as follows: 


‘‘CHAPTER 4—COMMUNITY ECONOMIC 
ADJUSTMENT 
‘‘SEC. 271. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) CIVILIAN LABOR FORCE.—The term ‘civilian 
labor force’ has the meaning given that term 
in regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
Labor. 

‘‘(2) COMMUNITY.—The term ‘community’ 
means a county or equivalent political subdivision 
of a State. 

‘‘(A) RURAL COMMUNITY.—The term ‘rural 
community’ means a community that has a 
rural-urban continuum code of 4 through 9. 

‘‘(B) URBAN COMMUNITY.—The term ‘urban 
community’ means a community that has a 
rural-urban continuum code of 0 through 3. 

‘‘(3) COMMUNITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COORDINATING 
COMMITTEE.—The term ‘Community 
Economic Development Coordinating Committee’ 
means a community group established under 
section 274 that consists of major groups significantly 
affected by an increase in imports or a 
shift in production, including local, regional, 
tribal, and State governments, regional councils 
of governments and economic development, and 
business, labor, education, health, religious, 
and other community-based organizations. 

‘‘(4) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘Director’ means 
the Director of the Office of Community Trade 
Adjustment. 

‘‘(5) ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY.—The term ‘eligible 
community’ means a community certified under 
section 273 as eligible for assistance under this 
chapter. 

‘‘(6) JOB LOSS.—The term ‘job loss’ means the 
total or partial separation of an individual, as 
those terms are defined in section 221. 

‘‘(7) OFFICE.—The term ‘Office’ means the Office 
of Community Trade Adjustment established 
under section 272. 

‘‘(8) RURAL-URBAN CONTINUUM CODE.—The 
term ‘rural-urban continuum code’ means a code 
assigned to a community according to the rural-
urban continuum code system, as defined by the 
Economic Research Service of the Department of 
Agriculture. 

‘‘(9) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ means 
the Secretary of Commerce. 

‘‘SEC. 272. OFFICE OF COMMUNITY TRADE ADJUSTMENT. 


‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Within 6 months of the 
date of enactment of the Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Reform Act of 2002, there shall be established 
in the Office of Economic Adjustment of 
the Economic Development Administration of 
the Department of Commerce an Office of Community 
Trade Adjustment. 

‘‘(b) PERSONNEL.—The Office shall be headed 
by a Director, and shall have such staff as may 
be necessary to carry out the responsibilities described 
in this chapter. 

‘‘(c) COORDINATION OF FEDERAL RESPONSE.— 
The Office shall— 

‘‘(1) provide leadership, support, and coordination 
for a comprehensive management program 
to address economic dislocation in eligible 
communities; 

‘‘(2) establish an easily accessible, one-stop 
clearinghouse for States and eligible communities 
to obtain information regarding economic 
development assistance available under Federal 
law; 

‘‘(3) coordinate the Federal response to an eligible 
community— 

‘‘(A) by identifying all Federal, State, and 
local resources that are available to assist the 
eligible community in recovering from economic 
distress; 

‘‘(B) by ensuring that all Federal agencies offering 
assistance to an eligible community do so 
in a targeted, integrated manner that ensures 
that an eligible community has access to all 
available Federal assistance; 

‘‘(C) by assuring timely consultation and cooperation 
between Federal, State, and regional 
officials concerning community economic adjustment; 


‘‘(D) by identifying and strengthening existing 
agency mechanisms designed to assist communities 
in economic adjustment and workforce 
reemployment; 

‘‘(E) by applying consistent policies, practices, 
and procedures in the administration of Federal 
programs that are used to assist communities 
adversely impacted by an increase in imports or 
a shift in production; 

‘‘(F) by creating, maintaining, and using a 
uniform economic database to analyze community 
adjustment activities; and 

‘‘(G) by assigning a community economic adjustment 
advisor to work with each eligible community; 


‘‘(4) provide comprehensive technical assistance 
to any eligible community in the efforts of 
that community to— 

‘‘(A) identify serious economic problems in the 
community that result from an increase in imports 
or shift in production; 

‘‘(B) integrate the major groups and organizations 
significantly affected by the economic adjustment; 


‘‘(C) organize a Community Economic Development 
Coordinating Committee; 

‘‘(D) access Federal, State, and local resources 
designed to assist in economic development and 
trade adjustment assistance; 

‘‘(E) diversify and strengthen the community 
economy; and 

‘‘(F) develop a community-based strategic 
plan to address workforce dislocation and economic 
development; 

‘‘(5) establish specific criteria for submission 
and evaluation of a strategic plan submitted 
under section 276(d); 

‘‘(6) administer the grant programs established 
under sections 276 and 277; and 

‘‘(7) establish an interagency Trade Adjustment 
Assistance Working Group, consisting of 
the representatives of any Federal department 
or agency with responsibility for economic adjustment 
assistance, including the Department 
of Agriculture, the Department of Defense, the 
Department of Education, the Department of 
Labor, the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development, the Department of Health and 
Human Services, the Small Business Administration, 
the Department of the Treasury, the Department 
of Commerce, the Office of the United 
States Trade Representative, and the National 
Economic Council. 

‘‘(d) WORKING GROUP.—The working group 
established under subsection (c)(7) shall examine 
other options for addressing trade impacts 
on communities, such as: 

‘‘(1) Seeking legislative language directing the 
Foreign Trade Zone (‘FTZ’) Board to expedite 
consideration of FTZ applications from communities 
or businesses that have been found eligible 
for trade adjustment assistance. 

‘‘(2) Seeking legislative language to make new 
markets tax credits available in communities impacted 
by trade. 

‘‘(3) Seeking legislative language to make 
work opportunity tax credits available for hiring 
unemployed workers who are certified eligible 
for trade adjustment assistance. 

‘‘(4) Examining ways to assist trade impacted 
rural communities and industries take advantage 
of the Department of Agriculture’s rural 
development program. 

‘‘SEC. 273. NOTIFICATION AND CERTIFICATION AS 
AN ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY. 

‘‘(a) NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary of Labor, 
not later than 15 days after making a determination 
that a group of workers is eligible for 
trade adjustment assistance under section 231, 
shall notify the Governor of the State in which 
the community in which the worker’s firm is located 
and the Director, of the Secretary’s determination. 


‘‘(b) CERTIFICATION.—Not later than 30 days 
after notification by the Secretary of Labor described 
in subsection (a), the Director shall certify 
as eligible for assistance under this chapter 
a community in which both of the following 
conditions applies: 

‘‘(1) NUMBER OF JOB LOSSES.—The Director 
finds that— 

‘‘(A) in an urban community, at least 500 
workers have been certified for assistance under 
section 231 in the most recent 36-month period 
preceding the date of certification under this 
section for which data are available; or 

‘‘(B) in a rural community, at least 300 workers 
have been certified for assistance under section 
231 in the most recent 36-month period preceding 
the date of certification under this section 
for which data are available. 

‘‘(2) PERCENT OF WORKFORCE UNEMPLOYED.— 
The Director finds that the unemployment rate 
for the community is at least 1 percent greater 
than the national unemployment rate for the 
most recent 12-month period for which data are 
available. 

‘‘(c) NOTIFICATION TO ELIGIBLE COMMU-
NITIES.—Not later than 15 days after the Director 
certifies a community as eligible under subsection 
(b), the Director shall notify the 
community— 

‘‘(1) of its determination under subsection (b); 

‘‘(2) of the provisions of this chapter; 

‘‘(3) how to access the clearinghouse established 
under section 272(c)(2); and 

‘‘(4) how to obtain technical assistance provided 
under section 272(c)(4). 

‘‘SEC. 274. COMMUNITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
COORDINATING COMMITTEE. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—In order to apply for 
and receive benefits under this chapter, an eligible 
community shall establish a Community Economic 
Development Coordinating Committee certified 
by the Director as meeting the requirements 
of subsection (b)(1). 

‘‘(b) COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE.— 

‘‘(1) LOCAL PARTICIPATION.—The Community 
Economic Development Coordinating Committee 
established by an eligible community under subsection 
(a) shall include representatives of those 
groups significantly affected by economic dislocation, 
such as local, regional, tribal, and 
State governments, regional councils of governments 
and economic development, business, 
labor, education, health organizations, religious, 
and other community-based groups providing 
assistance to workers, their families, and 
communities. 

‘‘(2) FEDERAL PARTICIPATION.—Pursuant to 
section 275(b)(3), the community economic adjustment 
advisor, assigned by the Director to assist 
an eligible community, shall serve as an ex 
officio member of the Community Economic Development 
Coordinating Committee, and shall 
arrange for participation by representatives of 
other Federal agencies on that Committee as 
necessary. 

‘‘(3) EXISTING ORGANIZATION.—An eligible 
community may designate an existing organization 
in that community as the Community Economic 
Development Coordinating Committee if 


S4902 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

that organization meets the requirements of 
paragraph (1) for the purposes of this chapter. 

‘‘(c) DUTIES.—The Community Economic Development 
Coordinating Committee shall— 

‘‘(1) ascertain the severity of the community 
economic adjustment required as a result of the 
increase in imports or shift in production; 

‘‘(2) assess the capacity of the community to 
respond to the required economic adjustment 
and the needs of the community as it undertakes 
economic adjustment, taking into consideration 
such factors as the number of jobs lost, the size 
of the community, the diversity of industries, 
the skills of the labor force, the condition of the 
current labor market, the availability of financial 
resources, the quality and availability of 
educational facilities, the adequacy and availability 
of public services, and the existence of a 
basic and advanced infrastructure in the community; 


‘‘(3) facilitate a dialogue between concerned 
interests in the community, represent the impacted 
community, and ensure all interests in 
the community work collaboratively toward collective 
goals without duplication of effort or resources; 


‘‘(4) oversee the development of a strategic 
plan for community economic development, taking 
into consideration the factors mentioned 
under paragraph (2), and consistent with the 
criteria established by the Secretary for the strategic 
plan developed under section 276; 

‘‘(5) create an executive council of members of 
the Community Economic Development Coordinating 
Committee to promote the strategic plan 
within the community and ensure coordination 
and cooperation among all stakeholders; and 

‘‘(6) apply for any grant, loan, or loan guarantee 
available under Federal law to develop or 
implement the strategic plan, and be an eligible 
recipient for funding for economic adjustment 
for that community. 

‘‘SEC. 275. COMMUNITY ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT 
ADVISORS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Pursuant to section 
272(c)(3)(G), the Director shall assign a community 
economic adjustment advisor to each eligible 
community. 

‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The community economic adjustment 
advisor shall— 

‘‘(1) provide technical assistance to the eligible 
community, assist in the development and 
implementation of a strategic plan, including 
applying for any grant available under this or 
any other Federal law to develop or implement 
that plan; 

‘‘(2) at the local and regional level, coordinate 
the response of all Federal agencies offering assistance 
to the eligible community; 

‘‘(3) serve as an ex officio member of the Community 
Economic Development Coordinating 
Committee established by an eligible community 
under section 274; 

‘‘(4) act as liaison between the Community 
Economic Development Coordinating Committee 
established by the eligible community and all 
other Federal agencies that offer assistance to 
eligible communities, including the Department 
of Agriculture, the Department of Defense, the 
Department of Education, the Department of 
Labor, the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development, the Department of Health and 
Human Services, the Small Business Administration, 
the Department of the Treasury, the National 
Economic Council, and other offices or 
agencies of the Department of Commerce; 

‘‘(5) report regularly to the Director regarding 
the progress of development activities in the 
community to which the community economic 
adjustment advisor is assigned; and 

‘‘(6) perform other duties as directed by the 
Secretary or the Director. 

‘‘SEC. 276. STRATEGIC PLANS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—With the assistance of the 
community economic adjustment advisor, an eligible 
community may develop a strategic plan 
for community economic adjustment and diversification. 


‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR STRATEGIC PLAN.—A 
strategic plan shall contain, at a minimum, the 
following: 

‘‘(1) A description and justification of the capacity 
for economic adjustment, including the 
method of financing to be used, the anticipated 
management structure of the Community Economic 
Development Coordinating Committee, 
and the commitment of the community to the 
strategic plan over the long term. 

‘‘(2) A description of, and a plan to accomplish, 
the projects to be undertaken by the eligible 
community. 

‘‘(3) A description of how the plan and the 
projects to be undertaken by the eligible community 
will lead to job creation and job retention 
in the community. 

‘‘(4) A description of any alternative development 
plans that were considered, particularly 
less costly alternatives, and why those plans 
were rejected in favor of the proposed plan. 

‘‘(5) A description of any additional steps the 
eligible community will take to achieve economic 
adjustment and diversification, including how 
the plan and the projects will contribute to establishing 
or maintaining a level of public services 
necessary to attract and retain economic investment. 


‘‘(6) A description and justification for the 
cost and timing of proposed basic and advanced 
infrastructure improvements in the eligible community. 


‘‘(7) A description of the occupational and 
workforce conditions in the eligible community, 
including but not limited to existing levels of 
workforce skills and competencies, and educational 
programs available for workforce training 
and future employment needs. 

‘‘(8) A description of how the plan will adapt 
to changing markets, business cycles, and other 
variables. 

‘‘(9) A graduation strategy through which the 
eligible community demonstrates that the community 
will terminate the need for Federal assistance. 


‘‘(c) GRANTS TO DEVELOP STRATEGIC PLANS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director, upon receipt 
of an application from a Community Economic 
Development Coordinating Committee on behalf 
of an eligible community, shall award a grant to 
that community to be used to develop the strategic 
plan. 

‘‘(2) AMOUNT.—The amount of a grant made 
under paragraph (1) shall be determined by the 
Secretary, but may not exceed $50,000 to each 
community. 

‘‘(3) LIMIT.—Each community can only receive 
1 grant under this subsection for the purpose of 
developing a strategic plan in any 5-year period. 

‘‘(d) SUBMISSION OF PLAN.—A strategic plan 
developed under subsection (a) shall be submitted 
to the Director for evaluation and approval. 


‘‘SEC. 277. GRANTS FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. 


‘‘The Director, upon receipt of an application 
from the Community Economic Development Coordinating 
Committee on behalf of an eligible 
community, may award a grant to that community 
to carry out any project or program included 
in the strategic plan approved under section 
276(d) that— 

‘‘(1) will be located in, or will create or preserve 
high-wage jobs, in that eligible community; 
and 

‘‘(2) implements the strategy of that eligible 
community to create high-wage jobs in sectors 
that are expected to expand, including projects 
that— 

‘‘(A) encourage industries to locate in that eligible 
community, if such funds are not used to 
encourage the relocation of any employer in a 
manner that causes the dislocation of employees 
of that employer at another facility in the 
United States; 

‘‘(B) leverage resources to create or improve 
Internet or telecommunications capabilities to 
make the community more attractive for business; 


‘‘(C) establish a funding pool for job creation 
through entrepreneurial activities; 

‘‘(D) assist existing firms in that community to 
restructure or retool to become more competitive 
in world markets and prevent job loss; or 

‘‘(E) assist the community in acquiring the resources 
and providing the level of public services 
necessary to meet the objectives set out in the 
strategic plan. 

‘‘SEC. 278. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Department of Commerce, for the period beginning 
October 1, 2001, and ending September 
30, 2007, such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out the purposes of this chapter. 

‘‘SEC. 279. GENERAL PROVISIONS. 

‘‘(a) REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR.—Not later 
than 6 months after the date of enactment of the 
Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 
2002, and annually thereafter, the Director shall 
submit to the Committee on Finance of the Senate 
and the Committee on Ways and Means of 
the House of Representatives a report regarding 
the programs established under this title. 

‘‘(b) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall prescribe 
such regulations as are necessary to carry 
out the provisions of this chapter. 

‘‘(c) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.—Funds appropriated 
under this chapter shall be used to 
supplement and not supplant other Federal, 
State, and local public funds expended to provide 
economic development assistance for communities.’’. 


TITLE IV—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR FARMERS 
SEC. 401. TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR 
FARMERS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title II of the Trade Act of 
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new chapter: 
‘‘CHAPTER 6—ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 
FOR FARMERS 
‘‘SEC. 291. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY.—The term 
‘agricultural commodity’ means any agricultural 
commodity (including livestock), except 
fish as defined in section 299(1) of this Act, in its 
raw or natural state. 

‘‘(2) AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY PRODUCER.— 
The term ‘agricultural commodity producer’ has 
the same meaning as the term ‘person’ as prescribed 
by regulations promulgated under section 
1001(5) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 

U.S.C. 1308(5)). The term does not include any 
person described in section 299(2) of this Act. 

‘‘(3) CONTRIBUTED IMPORTANTLY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘contributed importantly’ 
means a cause which is important but 
not necessarily more important than any other 
cause. 

‘‘(B) DETERMINATION OF CONTRIBUTED IMPOR-
TANTLY.—The determination of whether imports 
of articles like or directly competitive with an 
agricultural commodity with respect to which a 
petition under this chapter was filed contributed 
importantly to a decline in the price of the agricultural 
commodity shall be made by the Secretary. 


‘‘(4) DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.—The 
term ‘duly authorized representative’ means an 
association of agricultural commodity producers. 


‘‘(5) NATIONAL AVERAGE PRICE.—The term ‘national 
average price’ means the national average 
price paid to an agricultural commodity producer 
for an agricultural commodity in a marketing 
year as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ means 
the Secretary of Agriculture. 

‘‘SEC. 292. PETITIONS; GROUP ELIGIBILITY. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A petition for a certification 
of eligibility to apply for adjustment assistance 
under this chapter may be filed with 
the Secretary by a group of agricultural commodity 
producers or by their duly authorized 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4903 

representative. Upon receipt of the petition, the 
Secretary shall promptly publish notice in the 
Federal Register that the Secretary has received 
the petition and initiated an investigation. 

‘‘(b) HEARINGS.—If the petitioner, or any 
other person found by the Secretary to have a 
substantial interest in the proceedings, submits 
not later than 10 days after the date of the Secretary’s 
publication under subsection (a) a request 
for a hearing, the Secretary shall provide 
for a public hearing and afford such interested 
person an opportunity to be present, to produce 
evidence, and to be heard. 

‘‘(c) GROUP ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.—The 
Secretary shall certify a group of agricultural 
commodity producers as eligible to apply for adjustment 
assistance under this chapter if the 
Secretary determines— 

‘‘(1) that the national average price for the 
agricultural commodity, or a class of goods 
within the agricultural commodity, produced by 
the group for the most recent marketing year for 
which the national average price is available is 
less than 80 percent of the average of the national 
average price for such agricultural commodity, 
or such class of goods, for the 5 marketing 
years preceding the most recent marketing 
year; and 

‘‘(2) that increases in imports of articles like 
or directly competitive with the agricultural 
commodity, or class of goods within the agricultural 
commodity, produced by the group contributed 
importantly to the decline in price described 
in paragraph (1). 

‘‘(d) SPECIAL RULE FOR QUALIFIED SUBSEQUENT 
YEARS.—A group of agricultural commodity 
producers certified as eligible under section 
293 shall be eligible to apply for assistance 
under this chapter in any qualified year after 
the year the group is first certified, if the Secretary 
determines that— 

‘‘(1) the national average price for the agricultural 
commodity, or class of goods within the 
agricultural commodity, produced by the group 
for the most recent marketing year for which the 
national average price is available is equal to or 
less than the price determined under subsection 
(c)(1); and 

‘‘(2) the requirements of subsection (c)(2) are 
met. 

‘‘(e) DETERMINATION OF QUALIFIED YEAR AND 
COMMODITY.—In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) QUALIFIED YEAR.—The term ‘qualified 
year’, with respect to a group of agricultural 
commodity producers certified as eligible under 
section 293, means each consecutive year after 
the year in which the group is certified that the 
Secretary makes the determination under subsection 
(c) or (d), as the case may be. 

‘‘(2) CLASSES OF GOODS WITHIN A COM-
MODITY.—In any case in which there are separate 
classes of goods within an agricultural commodity, 
the Secretary shall treat each class as a 
separate commodity in determining group eligibility, 
the national average price, and level of 
imports under this section and section 296. 

‘‘SEC. 293. DETERMINATIONS BY SECRETARY OF 
AGRICULTURE. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable 
after the date on which a petition is filed under 
section 292, but in any event not later than 40 
days after that date, the Secretary shall determine 
whether the petitioning group meets the 
requirements of section 292 (c) or (d), as the case 
may be, and shall, if the group meets the requirements, 
issue a certification of eligibility to 
apply for assistance under this chapter covering 
agricultural commodity producers in any group 
that meets the requirements. Each certification 
shall specify the date on which eligibility under 
this chapter begins. 

‘‘(b) NOTICE.—Upon making a determination 
on a petition, the Secretary shall promptly publish 
a summary of the determination in the Federal 
Register, together with the Secretary’s reasons 
for making the determination. 

‘‘(c) TERMINATION OF CERTIFICATION.—Whenever 
the Secretary determines, with respect to 

any certification of eligibility under this chapter, 
that the decline in price for the agricultural 
commodity covered by the certification is no 
longer attributable to the conditions described in 
section 292, the Secretary shall terminate such 
certification and promptly cause notice of such 
termination to be published in the Federal Register, 
together with the Secretary’s reasons for 
making such determination. 

‘‘SEC. 294. STUDY BY SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE 
WHEN INTERNATIONAL 
TRADE COMMISSION BEGINS INVESTIGATION. 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Whenever the International 
Trade Commission (in this chapter referred 
to as the ‘Commission’) begins an investigation 
under section 202 with respect to an agricultural 
commodity, the Commission shall immediately 
notify the Secretary of the investigation. 
Upon receipt of the notification, the Secretary 
shall immediately conduct a study of— 

‘‘(1) the number of agricultural commodity 
producers producing a like or directly competitive 
agricultural commodity who have been or 
are likely to be certified as eligible for adjustment 
assistance under this chapter, and 

‘‘(2) the extent to which the adjustment of 
such producers to the import competition may be 
facilitated through the use of existing programs. 

‘‘(b) REPORT.—Not later than 15 days after 
the day on which the Commission makes its report 
under section 202(f), the Secretary shall 
submit a report to the President setting forth the 
findings of the study described in subsection (a). 
Upon making the report to the President, the 
Secretary shall also promptly make the report 
public (with the exception of information which 
the Secretary determines to be confidential) and 
shall have a summary of the report published in 
the Federal Register. 

‘‘SEC. 295. BENEFIT INFORMATION TO AGRICULTURAL 
COMMODITY PRODUCERS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide 
full information to producers about the 
benefit allowances, training, and other employment 
services available under this title and 
about the petition and application procedures, 
and the appropriate filing dates, for such allowances, 
training, and services. The Secretary 
shall provide whatever assistance is necessary to 
enable groups to prepare petitions or applications 
for program benefits under this title. 

‘‘(b) NOTICE OF BENEFITS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall mail 
written notice of the benefits available under 
this chapter to each agricultural commodity producer 
that the Secretary has reason to believe is 
covered by a certification made under this chapter. 


‘‘(2) OTHER NOTICE.—The Secretary shall publish 
notice of the benefits available under this 
chapter to agricultural commodity producers 
that are covered by each certification made 
under this chapter in newspapers of general circulation 
in the areas in which such producers 
reside. 

‘‘(3) OTHER FEDERAL ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary 
shall also provide information concerning 
procedures for applying for and receiving all 
other Federal assistance and services available 
to workers facing economic distress. 
‘‘SEC. 296. QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR AG


RICULTURAL COMMODITY PRO


DUCERS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(1) REQUIREMENTS.—Payment of a trade adjustment 
allowance shall be made to an adversely 
affected agricultural commodity producer 
covered by a certification under this 
chapter who files an application for such allowance 
within 90 days after the date on which the 
Secretary makes a determination and issues a 
certification of eligibility under section 293, if 
the following conditions are met: 

‘‘(A) The producer submits to the Secretary 
sufficient information to establish the amount of 
agricultural commodity covered by the application 
filed under subsection (a) that was produced 
by the producer in the most recent year. 

‘‘(B) The producer certifies that the producer 
has not received cash benefits under any provision 
of this title other than this chapter. 

‘‘(C) The producer’s net farm income (as determined 
by the Secretary) for the most recent 
year is less than the producer’s net farm income 
for the latest year in which no adjustment assistance 
was received by the producer under this 
chapter. 

‘‘(D) The producer certifies that the producer 
has met with an Extension Service employee or 
agent to obtain, at no cost to the producer, information 
and technical assistance that will assist 
the producer in adjusting to import competition 
with respect to the adversely affected agricultural 
commodity, including— 

‘‘(i) information regarding the feasibility and 
desirability of substituting 1 or more alternative 
commodities for the adversely affected agricultural 
commodity; and 

‘‘(ii) technical assistance that will improve the 
competitiveness of the production and marketing 
of the adversely affected agricultural commodity 
by the producer, including yield and marketing 
improvements. 

‘‘(2) LIMITATION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this chapter, an agricultural commodity 
producer shall not be eligible for assistance 
under this chapter in any year in which 
the average adjusted gross income of the producer 
exceeds $2,500,000. 

‘‘(B) CERTIFICATION.—To comply with the limitation 
under subparagraph (A), an individual 
or entity shall provide to the Secretary— 

‘‘(i) a certification by a certified public accountant 
or another third party that is acceptable 
to the Secretary that the average adjusted 
gross income of the producer does not exceed 
$2,500,000; or 

‘‘(ii) information and documentation regarding 
the adjusted gross income of the producer 
through other procedures established by the Secretary. 


‘‘(C) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection: 

‘‘(i) ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—The term ‘adjusted 
gross income’ means adjusted gross income 
of an agricultural commodity producer— 

‘‘(I) as defined in section 62 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 and implemented in accordance 
with procedures established by the 
Secretary; and 

‘‘(II) that is earned directly or indirectly from 
all agricultural and nonagricultural sources of 
an individual or entity for a fiscal or corresponding 
crop year. 

‘‘(ii) AVERAGE ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘average adjusted 
gross income’ means the average adjusted gross 
income of a producer for each of the 3 preceding 
taxable years. 

‘‘(II) EFFECTIVE ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—In 
the case of a producer that does not have an adjusted 
gross income for each of the 3 preceding 
taxable years, the Secretary shall establish rules 
that provide the producer with an effective adjusted 
gross income for the applicable year. 

‘‘(b) AMOUNT OF CASH BENEFITS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the provisions of 
section 298, an adversely affected agricultural 
commodity producer described in subsection (a) 
shall be entitled to adjustment assistance under 
this chapter in an amount equal to the product 
of— 

‘‘(A) one-half of the difference between— 

‘‘(i) an amount equal to 80 percent of the average 
of the national average price of the agricultural 
commodity covered by the application 
described in subsection (a) for the 5 marketing 
years preceding the most recent marketing year, 
and 

‘‘(ii) the national average price of the agricultural 
commodity for the most recent marketing 
year, and 

‘‘(B) the amount of the agricultural commodity 
produced by the agricultural commodity 
producer in the most recent marketing year. 

‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR SUBSEQUENT QUALIFIED 
YEARS.—The amount of cash benefits for a 


S4904 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

qualified year shall be determined in the same 
manner as cash benefits are determined under 
paragraph (1) except that the average national 
price of the agricultural commodity shall be determined 
under paragraph (1)(A)(i) by using the 
5-marketing-year period used to determine the 
amount of cash benefits for the first certification. 


‘‘(c) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF CASH ASSISTANCE.—
The maximum amount of cash benefits 
an agricultural commodity producer may receive 
in any 12-month period shall not exceed $10,000. 

‘‘(d) LIMITATIONS ON OTHER ASSISTANCE.—An 
agricultural commodity producer entitled to receive 
a cash benefit under this chapter— 

‘‘(1) shall not be eligible for any other cash 
benefit under this title, and 

‘‘(2) shall be entitled to employment services 
and training benefits under part III of sub-
chapter C of chapter 2. 

‘‘SEC. 297. FRAUD AND RECOVERY OF OVERPAYMENTS. 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(1) REPAYMENT.—If the Secretary, or a court 
of competent jurisdiction, determines that any 
person has received any payment under this 
chapter to which the person was not entitled, 
such person shall be liable to repay such 
amount to the Secretary, except that the Secretary 
may waive such repayment if the Secretary 
determines, in accordance with guidelines 
prescribed by the Secretary, that— 

‘‘(A) the payment was made without fault on 
the part of such person; and 

‘‘(B) requiring such repayment would be contrary 
to equity and good conscience. 

‘‘(2) RECOVERY OF OVERPAYMENT.—Unless an 
overpayment is otherwise recovered, or waived 
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall recover 
the overpayment by deductions from any sums 
payable to such person under this chapter. 

‘‘(b) FALSE STATEMENT.—A person shall, in 
addition to any other penalty provided by law, 
be ineligible for any further payments under 
this chapter— 

‘‘(1) if the Secretary, or a court of competent 
jurisdiction, determines that the person— 

‘‘(A) knowingly has made, or caused another 
to make, a false statement or representation of 
a material fact; or 

‘‘(B) knowingly has failed, or caused another 
to fail, to disclose a material fact; and 

‘‘(2) as a result of such false statement or representation, 
or of such nondisclosure, such person 
has received any payment under this chapter 
to which the person was not entitled. 

‘‘(c) NOTICE AND DETERMINATION.—Except for 
overpayments determined by a court of competent 
jurisdiction, no repayment may be required, 
and no deduction may be made, under 
this section until a determination under subsection 
(a)(1) by the Secretary has been made, 
notice of the determination and an opportunity 
for a fair hearing thereon has been given to the 
person concerned, and the determination has 
become final. 

‘‘(d) PAYMENT TO TREASURY.—Any amount recovered 
under this section shall be returned to 
the Treasury of the United States. 

‘‘(e) PENALTIES.—Whoever makes a false 
statement of a material fact knowing it to be 
false, or knowingly fails to disclose a material 
fact, for the purpose of obtaining or increasing 
for himself or for any other person any payment 
authorized to be furnished under this chapter 
shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned 
for not more than 1 year, or both. 

‘‘SEC. 298. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be 
appropriated and there are appropriated to the 
Department of Agriculture not to exceed 
$90,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2002 
through 2007 to carry out the purposes of this 
chapter. 

‘‘(b) PROPORTIONATE REDUCTION.—If in any 
year, the amount appropriated under this chapter 
is insufficient to meet the requirements for 

adjustment assistance payable under this chapter, 
the amount of assistance payable under this 
chapter shall be reduced proportionately.’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made 
by this title shall take effect on the date that is 
180 days after the date of enactment of this Act. 
TITLE V—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR FISHERMEN 
SEC. 501. TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR 
FISHERMEN. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title II of the Trade Act of 
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.), as amended by title 
IV of this Act, is amended by adding at the end 
the following new chapter: 
‘‘CHAPTER 7—ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 
FOR FISHERMEN 
‘‘SEC. 299. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) COMMERCIAL FISHING, FISH, FISHERY, 
FISHING, FISHING VESSEL, PERSON, AND UNITED 
STATES FISH PROCESSOR.—The terms ‘commercial 
fishing’, ‘fish’, ‘fishery’, ‘fishing’, ‘fishing vessel’, 
‘person’, and ‘United States fish processor’ 
have the same meanings as such terms have in 
the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation 
and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802). 

‘‘(2) PRODUCER.—The term ‘producer’ means 
any person who— 

‘‘(A) is engaged in commercial fishing; or 

‘‘(B) is a United States fish processor. 

‘‘(3) CONTRIBUTED IMPORTANTLY.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘contributed importantly’ 
means a cause which is important but 
not necessarily more important than any other 
cause. 

‘‘(B) DETERMINATION OF CONTRIBUTED IMPOR-
TANTLY.—The determination of whether imports 
of articles like or directly competitive with a fish 
caught through commercial fishing or processed 
by a United States fish processor with respect to 
which a petition under this chapter was filed 
contributed importantly to a decline in the price 
of the fish shall be made by the Secretary. 

‘‘(4) DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.—The 
term ‘duly authorized representative’ means an 
association of producers. 

‘‘(5) NATIONAL AVERAGE PRICE.—The term ‘national 
average price’ means the national average 
price paid to a producer for fish in a marketing 
year as determined by the Secretary. 

‘‘(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ means 
the Secretary of Commerce. 

‘‘(7) TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE CENTER.— 
The term ‘Trade Adjustment Assistance Center’ 
shall have the same meaning as such term has 
in section 253. 

‘‘SEC. 299A. PETITIONS; GROUP ELIGIBILITY. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A petition for a certification 
of eligibility to apply for adjustment assistance 
under this chapter may be filed with 
the Secretary by a group of producers or by 
their duly authorized representative. Upon receipt 
of the petition, the Secretary shall promptly 
publish notice in the Federal Register that 
the Secretary has received the petition and initiated 
an investigation. 

‘‘(b) HEARINGS.—If the petitioner, or any 
other person found by the Secretary to have a 
substantial interest in the proceedings, submits 
not later than 10 days after the date of the Secretary’s 
publication under subsection (a) a request 
for a hearing, the Secretary shall provide 
for a public hearing and afford such interested 
person an opportunity to be present, to produce 
evidence, and to be heard. 

‘‘(c) GROUP ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.—The 
Secretary shall certify a group of producers as 
eligible to apply for adjustment assistance under 
this chapter if the Secretary determines— 

‘‘(1) that the national average price for the 
fish, or a class of fish, produced by the group 
for the most recent marketing year for which the 
national average price is available is less than 
80 percent of the average of the national average 
price for such fish, or such class of fish, for 
the 5 marketing years preceding the most recent 
marketing year; and 

‘‘(2) that increases in imports of articles like 
or directly competitive with the fish, or class of 
fish, produced by the group contributed importantly 
to the decline in price described in paragraph 
(1). 

‘‘(d) SPECIAL RULE FOR QUALIFIED SUBSEQUENT 
YEARS.—A group of producers certified 
as eligible under section 299B shall be eligible to 
apply for assistance under this chapter in any 
qualified year after the year the group is first 
certified, if the Secretary determines that— 

‘‘(1) the national average price for the fish, or 
class of fish, produced by the group for the most 
recent marketing year for which the national 
average price is available is equal to or less than 
the price determined under subsection (c)(1); 
and 

‘‘(2) the requirements of subsection (c)(2) are 
met. 

‘‘(e) DETERMINATION OF QUALIFIED YEAR AND 
COMMODITY.—In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) QUALIFIED YEAR.—The term ‘qualified 
year’, with respect to a group of producers certified 
as eligible under section 299B, means each 
consecutive year after the year in which the 
group is certified that the Secretary makes the 
determination under subsection (c) or (d), as the 
case may be. 

‘‘(2) CLASSES OF GOODS WITHIN A COM-
MODITY.—In any case in which there are separate 
classes of fish, the Secretary shall treat 
each class as a separate commodity in determining 
group eligibility, the national average 
price, and level of imports under this section 
and section 299E. 

‘‘SEC. 299B. DETERMINATIONS BY SECRETARY. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable 
after the date on which a petition is filed under 
section 299A, but in any event not later than 40 
days after that date, the Secretary shall determine 
whether the petitioning group meets the 
requirements of section 299A (c) or (d), as the 
case may be, and shall, if the group meets the 
requirements, issue a certification of eligibility 
to apply for assistance under this chapter covering 
producers in any group that meets the requirements. 
Each certification shall specify the 
date on which eligibility under this chapter begins. 


‘‘(b) NOTICE.—Upon making a determination 
on a petition, the Secretary shall promptly publish 
a summary of the determination in the Federal 
Register, together with the Secretary’s reasons 
for making the determination. 

‘‘(c) TERMINATION OF CERTIFICATION.—Whenever 
the Secretary determines, with respect to 
any certification of eligibility under this chapter, 
that the decline in price for the fish covered 
by the certification is no longer attributable to 
the conditions described in section 299A, the 
Secretary shall terminate such certification and 
promptly cause notice of such termination to be 
published in the Federal Register, together with 
the Secretary’s reasons for making such determination. 


‘‘SEC. 299C. STUDY BY SECRETARY WHEN INTER


NATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION BE


GINS INVESTIGATION. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Whenever the International 
Trade Commission (in this chapter referred 
to as the ‘Commission’) begins an investigation 
under section 202 with respect to a fish, 
the Commission shall immediately notify the 
Secretary of the investigation. Upon receipt of 
the notification, the Secretary shall immediately 
conduct a study of— 

‘‘(1) the number of producers producing a like 
or directly competitive agricultural commodity 
who have been or are likely to be certified as eligible 
for adjustment assistance under this chapter, 
and 

‘‘(2) the extent to which the adjustment of 
such producers to the import competition may be 
facilitated through the use of existing programs. 

‘‘(b) REPORT.—Not later than 15 days after 
the day on which the Commission makes its report 
under section 202(f), the Secretary shall 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4905 

submit a report to the President setting forth the 
findings of the study under subsection (a). Upon 
making his report to the President, the Secretary 
shall also promptly make the report public 
(with the exception of information which the 
Secretary determines to be confidential) and 
shall have a summary of it published in the Federal 
Register. 

‘‘SEC. 299D. BENEFIT INFORMATION TO PRODUCERS. 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide 
full information to producers about the 
benefit allowances, training, and other employment 
services available under this title and 
about the petition and application procedures, 
and the appropriate filing dates, for such allowances, 
training, and services. The Secretary 
shall provide whatever assistance is necessary to 
enable groups to prepare petitions or applications 
for program benefits under this title. 

‘‘(b) NOTICE OF BENEFITS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall mail 
written notice of the benefits available under 
this chapter to each producer that the Secretary 
has reason to believe is covered by a certification 
made under this chapter. 

‘‘(2) OTHER NOTICE.—The Secretary shall publish 
notice of the benefits available under this 
chapter to producers that are covered by each 
certification made under this chapter in newspapers 
of general circulation in the areas in 
which such producers reside. 

‘‘SEC. 299E. QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR 
PRODUCERS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Payment of a trade adjustment 
allowance shall be made to an adversely 
affected producer covered by a certification 
under this chapter who files an application for 
such allowance within 90 days after the date on 
which the Secretary makes a determination and 
issues a certification of eligibility under section 
299B, if the following conditions are met: 

‘‘(1) The producer submits to the Secretary 
sufficient information to establish the amount of 
fish covered by the application filed under subsection 
(a) that was produced by the producer 
in the most recent year. 

‘‘(2) The producer certifies that the producer 
has not received cash benefits under any provision 
of this title other than this chapter. 

‘‘(3) The producer’s net fishing or processing 
income (as determined by the Secretary) for the 
most recent year is less than the producer’s net 
fishing or processing income for the latest year 
in which no adjustment assistance was received 
by the producer under this chapter. 

‘‘(4) The producer certifies that— 

‘‘(A) the producer has met with an employee 
or agent from a Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Center to obtain, at no cost to the producer, information 
and technical assistance that will assist 
the producer in adjusting to import competition 
with respect to the adversely affected fish, 
including— 

‘‘(i) information regarding the feasibility and 
desirability of substituting 1 or more alternative 
fish for the adversely affected fish; and 

‘‘(ii) technical assistance that will improve the 
competitiveness of the production and marketing 
of the adversely affected fish by the producer, 
including yield and marketing improvements; 
and 

‘‘(B) none of the benefits will be used to purchase, 
lease, or finance any new fishing vessel, 
add capacity to any fishery, or otherwise add to 
the overcapitalization of any fishery. 

‘‘(b) AMOUNT OF CASH BENEFITS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the provisions of 
section 299G, an adversely affected producer described 
in subsection (a) shall be entitled to adjustment 
assistance under this chapter in an 
amount equal to the product of— 

‘‘(A) one-half of the difference between— 

‘‘(i) an amount equal to 80 percent of the average 
of the national average price of the fish 
covered by the application described in subsection 
(a) for the 5 marketing years preceding 
the most recent marketing year; and 

‘‘(ii) the national average price of the fish for 
the most recent marketing year; and 

‘‘(B) the amount of the fish produced by the 
producer in the most recent marketing year. 

‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR SUBSEQUENT QUALIFIED 
YEARS.—The amount of cash benefits for a 
qualified year shall be determined in the same 
manner as cash benefits are determined under 
paragraph (1) except that the average national 
price of the fish shall be determined under paragraph 
(1)(A)(i) by using the 5-marketing-year 
period used to determine the amount of cash 
benefits for the first certification. A producer 
shall only be eligible for benefits for subsequent 
qualified years if the Secretary or his designee 
determines that sufficient progress has been 
made implementing the plans developed under 
section 299E(a)(4) of this title. 

‘‘(c) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF CASH ASSISTANCE.—
The maximum amount of cash benefits a 
producer may receive in any 12-month period 
shall not exceed $10,000. 

‘‘(d) LIMITATIONS ON OTHER ASSISTANCE.—A 
producer entitled to receive a cash benefit under 
this chapter— 

‘‘(1) shall not be eligible for any other cash 
benefit under this title, and 

‘‘(2) shall be entitled to employment services 
and training benefits under part III of sub-
chapter C of chapter 2. 

‘‘SEC. 299F. FRAUD AND RECOVERY OF OVERPAYMENTS. 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(1) REPAYMENT.—If the Secretary, or a court 
of competent jurisdiction, determines that any 
person has received any payment under this 
chapter to which the person was not entitled, 
such person shall be liable to repay such 
amount to the Secretary, except that the Secretary 
may waive such repayment if the Secretary 
determines, in accordance with guidelines 
prescribed by the Secretary, that— 

‘‘(A) the payment was made without fault on 
the part of such person; and 

‘‘(B) requiring such repayment would be contrary 
to equity and good conscience. 

‘‘(2) RECOVERY OF OVERPAYMENT.—Unless an 
overpayment is otherwise recovered, or waived 
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall recover 
the overpayment by deductions from any sums 
payable to such person under this chapter. 

‘‘(b) FALSE STATEMENT.—A person shall, in 
addition to any other penalty provided by law, 
be ineligible for any further payments under 
this chapter— 

‘‘(1) if the Secretary, or a court of competent 
jurisdiction, determines that the person— 

‘‘(A) knowingly has made, or caused another 
to make, a false statement or representation of 
a material fact; or 

‘‘(B) knowingly has failed, or caused another 
to fail, to disclose a material fact; and 

‘‘(2) as a result of such false statement or representation, 
or of such nondisclosure, such person 
has received any payment under this chapter 
to which the person was not entitled. 

‘‘(c) NOTICE AND DETERMINATION.—Except for 
overpayments determined by a court of competent 
jurisdiction, no repayment may be required, 
and no deduction may be made, under 
this section until a determination under subsection 
(a)(1) by the Secretary has been made, 
notice of the determination and an opportunity 
for a fair hearing thereon has been given to the 
person concerned, and the determination has 
become final. 

‘‘(d) PAYMENT TO TREASURY.—Any amount recovered 
under this section shall be returned to 
the Treasury of the United States. 

‘‘(e) PENALTIES.—Whoever makes a false 
statement of a material fact knowing it to be 
false, or knowingly fails to disclose a material 
fact, for the purpose of obtaining or increasing 
for himself or for any other person any payment 
authorized to be furnished under this chapter 
shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned 
for not more than 1 year, or both. 

‘‘SEC. 299G. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be 
appropriated and there are appropriated to the 
Department of Commerce not to exceed 
$10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2002 
through 2007 to carry out the purposes of this 
chapter. 

‘‘(b) PROPORTIONATE REDUCTION.—If in any 
year, the amount appropriated under this chapter 
is insufficient to meet the requirements for 
adjustment assistance payable under this chapter, 
the amount of assistance payable under this 
chapter shall be reduced proportionately.’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made 
by this title shall take effect on the date that is 
180 days after the date of enactment of this Act. 
TITLE VI—HEALTH CARE COVERAGE OP


TIONS FOR WORKERS ELIGIBLE FOR 

TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 

SEC. 601. TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 
HEALTH INSURANCE CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter B of chapter 65 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to 
abatements, credits, and refunds) is amended by 
inserting after section 6428 the following new 
section: 
‘‘SEC. 6429. TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 
HEALTH INSURANCE CREDIT. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In the case of an individual, 
there shall be allowed as a credit against 
the tax imposed by subtitle A an amount equal 
to 70 percent of the amount paid during the taxable 
year for coverage for the taxpayer, the taxpayer’s 
spouse, and dependents of the taxpayer 
under qualified health insurance during eligible 
coverage months. 

‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE COVERAGE MONTH.—For purposes 
of this section— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘eligible coverage 
month’ means any month if, as of the first day 
of such month— 

‘‘(A) the taxpayer is an eligible individual, 

‘‘(B) the taxpayer is covered by qualified 
health insurance, 

‘‘(C) the premium for coverage under such insurance 
for such month is paid by the taxpayer, 
and 

‘‘(D) the taxpayer does not have other specified 
coverage. 

‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULES.— 

‘‘(A) JOINT RETURNS.—In the case of a joint 
return, the requirements of paragraph (1) shall 
be treated as met if at least 1 spouse satisfies 
such requirements. 

‘‘(B) EXCLUSION OF MONTHS IN WHICH INDIVIDUAL 
IS IMPRISONED.—Such term shall not include 
any month with respect to an individual 
if, as of the first day of such month, such individual 
is imprisoned under Federal, State, or 
local authority. 

‘‘(3) OTHER SPECIFIED COVERAGE.—For purposes 
of this subsection, an individual has other 
specified coverage for any month if, as of the 
first day of such month— 

‘‘(A) SUBSIDIZED COVERAGE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Such individual is covered 
under any qualified health insurance under 
which at least 50 percent of the cost of coverage 
(determined under section 4980B) is paid or incurred 
by an employer (or former employer) of 
the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s spouse. 

‘‘(ii) TREATMENT OF CAFETERIA PLANS AND 
FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS.—For purposes of 
clause (i), the cost of benefits— 

‘‘(I) which are chosen under a cafeteria plan 
(as defined in section 125(d)), or provided under 
a flexible spending or similar arrangement, of 
such an employer, and 

‘‘(II) which are not includible in gross income 
under section 106, 
shall be treated as borne by such employer. 

‘‘(B) COVERAGE UNDER MEDICARE, MEDICAID, 
OR SCHIP.—Such individual— 

‘‘(i) is entitled to benefits under part A of title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act or is enrolled 
under part B of such title, or 


S4906 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

‘‘(ii) is enrolled in the program under title 
XIX or XXI of such Act (other than under section 
1928). 

‘‘(C) CERTAIN OTHER COVERAGE.—Such 
individual— 

‘‘(i) is enrolled in a health benefits plan under 
chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code, 

‘‘(ii) is entitled to receive benefits under chapter 
55 of title 10, United States Code, 

‘‘(iii) is entitled to receive benefits under 
chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, or 

‘‘(iv) is eligible for benefits under the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Act. 

‘‘(4) SPECIAL RULE.—For purposes of this subsection, 
an individual does not have other specified 
coverage for any month if such coverage is 
under a qualified long-term care insurance contract 
(as defined in section 7702B(b)(1)). 

‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—For purposes of 
this section, the term ‘eligible individual’ means 
an individual who is qualified to receive payment 
of a trade adjustment allowance under section 
235 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended by 
section 111 of the Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Reform Act of 2002. 

‘‘(d) QUALIFIED HEALTH INSURANCE.—For purposes 
of this section, the term ‘qualified health 
insurance’ means health insurance coverage described 
under section 173(f) of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2918(f)). 

‘‘(e) COORDINATION WITH ADVANCE PAYMENTS 
OF CREDIT.— 

‘‘(1) RECAPTURE OF EXCESS ADVANCE PAY-
MENTS.—If any payment is made by the Secretary 
under section 7527 during any calendar 
year to a provider of qualified health insurance 
for an individual, then the tax imposed by this 
chapter for the individual’s last taxable year beginning 
in such calendar year shall be increased 
by the aggregate amount of such payments. 

‘‘(2) RECONCILIATION OF PAYMENTS ADVANCED 
AND CREDIT ALLOWED.—Any increase in tax 
under paragraph (1) shall not be treated as tax 
imposed by this chapter for purposes of determining 
the amount of any credit (other than the 
credit allowed by subsection (a)) allowable 
under part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1. 

‘‘(f) SPECIAL RULES.— 

‘‘(1) COORDINATION WITH OTHER DEDUCTIONS.—
Amounts taken into account under subsection 
(a) shall not be taken into account in 
determining any deduction allowed under section 
162(l) or 213. 

‘‘(2) MSA DISTRIBUTIONS.—Amounts distributed 
from an Archer MSA (as defined in section 
220(d)) shall not be taken into account under 
subsection (a). 

‘‘(3) DENIAL OF CREDIT TO DEPENDENTS.—No 
credit shall be allowed under this section to any 
individual with respect to whom a deduction 
under section 151 is allowable to another taxpayer 
for a taxable year beginning in the calendar 
year in which such individual’s taxable 
year begins. 

‘‘(4) CREDIT TREATED AS REFUNDABLE CRED-
IT.—For purposes of this title, the credit allowed 
under this section shall be treated as a credit allowable 
under subpart C of part IV of sub-
chapter A of chapter 1. 

‘‘(5) EXPENSES MUST BE SUBSTANTIATED.—A 
payment for qualified health insurance to which 
subsection (a) applies may be taken into account 
under this section only if the taxpayer 
substantiates such payment in such form as the 
Secretary may prescribe. 

‘‘(6) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may prescribe 
such regulations and other guidance as 
may be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
this section and section 7527.’’. 

(b) INFORMATION REPORTING.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subpart B of part III of sub-
chapter A of chapter 61 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 (relating to information concerning 
transactions with other persons) is amended by 
inserting after section 6050S the following new 
section: 
‘‘SEC. 6050T. RETURNS RELATING TO TRADE AD


JUSTMENT ASSISTANCE HEALTH IN


SURANCE CREDIT. 

‘‘(a) REQUIREMENT OF REPORTING.—Every 
person— 

‘‘(1) who, in connection with a trade or business 
conducted by such person, receives payments 
during any calendar year from any individual 
for coverage of such individual or any 
other individual under qualified health insurance 
(as defined in section 6429(d)), and 

‘‘(2) who claims a reimbursement for an advance 
credit amount, 
shall, at such time as the Secretary may prescribe, 
make the return described in subsection 

(b) with respect to each individual from whom 
such payments were received or for whom such 
a reimbursement is claimed. 
‘‘(b) FORM AND MANNER OF RETURNS.—A return 
is described in this subsection if such 
return— 

‘‘(1) is in such form as the Secretary may prescribe, 
and 

‘‘(2) contains— 

‘‘(A) the name, address, and TIN of each individual 
referred to in subsection (a), 

‘‘(B) the aggregate of the advance credit 
amounts provided to such individual and for 
which reimbursement is claimed, 

‘‘(C) the number of months for which such advance 
credit amounts are so provided, and 

‘‘(D) such other information as the Secretary 
may prescribe. 

‘‘(c) STATEMENTS TO BE FURNISHED TO INDIVIDUALS 
WITH RESPECT TO WHOM INFORMATION 
IS REQUIRED.—Every person required to make a 
return under subsection (a) shall furnish to 
each individual whose name is required to be set 
forth in such return a written statement 
showing— 

‘‘(1) the name and address of the person required 
to make such return and the phone number 
of the information contact for such person, 
and 

‘‘(2) the information required to be shown on 
the return with respect to such individual. 
The written statement required under the preceding 
sentence shall be furnished on or before 
January 31 of the year following the calendar 
year for which the return under subsection (a) 
is required to be made. 

‘‘(d) ADVANCE CREDIT AMOUNT.—For purposes 
of this section, the term ‘advance credit amount’ 
means an amount for which the person can 
claim a reimbursement pursuant to a program 
established by the Secretary under section 
7527.’’. 

(2) ASSESSABLE PENALTIES.— 
(A) Subparagraph (B) of section 6724(d)(1) of 
such Code (relating to definitions) is amended 
by redesignating clauses (xi) through (xvii) as 
clauses (xii) through (xviii), respectively, and by 
inserting after clause (x) the following new 
clause: 
‘‘(xi) section 6050T (relating to returns relating 
to trade adjustment assistance health insurance 
credit),’’. 

(B) Paragraph (2) of section 6724(d) of such 
Code is amended by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of 
subparagraph (Z), by striking the period at the 
end of subparagraph (AA) and inserting ‘‘, or’’, 
and by adding after subparagraph (AA) the following 
new subparagraph: 
‘‘(BB) section 6050T (relating to returns relating 
to trade adjustment assistance health insurance 
credit).’’. 

(3) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections 
for subpart B of part III of subchapter A 
of chapter 61 of such Code is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 6050S the 
following new item: 
‘‘Sec. 6050T. Returns relating to trade adjust


ment assistance health insurance 

credit.’’. 

(c) CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR FRAUD.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter B of chapter 75 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to 
other offenses) is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 

‘‘SEC. 7276. PENALTIES FOR OFFENSES RELATING 

TO TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSIST


ANCE HEALTH INSURANCE CREDIT. 

‘‘Any person who knowingly misuses Department 
of the Treasury names, symbols, titles, or 
initials to convey the false impression of association 
with, or approval or endorsement by, the 
Department of the Treasury of any insurance 
products or group health coverage in connection 
with the credit for trade adjustment assistance 
health insurance under section 6429 shall on 
conviction thereof be fined not more than 
$10,000, or imprisoned not more than 1 year, or 
both.’’. 

(2) The table of sections for subchapter B of 
chapter 75 of such Code is amended by adding 
at the end the following: 
‘‘Sec. 7276. Penalties for offenses relating to 

trade adjustment assistance 

health insurance credit.’’. 

(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting before 
the period ‘‘, or from section 6429 of such 
Code’’. 
(2) The table of sections for subchapter B of 
chapter 65 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item: 
‘‘Sec. 6429. Trade adjustment assistance health 
insurance credit.’’. 

(e) EFFECTIVE DATES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph 
(2), the amendments made by this section 
shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2001, without regard to whether final 
regulations to carry out such amendments have 
been promulgated by such date. 
(2) PENALTIES.—The amendments made by 
subsection (c) shall take effect on the date of the 
enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 602. ADVANCE PAYMENT OF TRADE ADJUST


MENT ASSISTANCE HEALTH INSUR


ANCE CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 77 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to miscellaneous 
provisions) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 7527. ADVANCE PAYMENT OF TRADE AD


JUSTMENT ASSISTANCE HEALTH IN


SURANCE CREDIT. 

‘‘(a) GENERAL RULE.—The Secretary shall establish 
a program for making payments on behalf 
of eligible individuals (as defined in section 
6429(c)) to providers of health insurance for 
such individuals for whom a qualified health insurance 
credit eligibility certificate is in effect. 

‘‘(b) QUALIFIED HEALTH INSURANCE CREDIT 
ELIGIBILITY CERTIFICATE.—For purposes of this 
section, a qualified health insurance credit eligibility 
certificate is a statement certified by a 
designated local agency (as defined in section 
51(d)(11)) (or by any other entity designated by 
the Secretary) which— 

‘‘(1) certifies that the individual was an eligible 
individual (as defined in section 6429(c)) as 
of the first day of any month, and 

‘‘(2) provides such other information as the 
Secretary may require for purposes of this section.’’. 


(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections 
for chapter 77 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new item: 
‘‘Sec. 7527. Advance payment of trade adjust


ment assistance health insurance 

credit.’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect on the date of 
the enactment of this Act, without regard to 
whether final regulations to carry out such 
amendments have been promulgated by such 
date. 

June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4907 

SEC. 603. HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR 

ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS. 

(a) ELIGIBILITY FOR GRANTS.—Section 173(a) 
of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 
U.S.C. 2918(a)) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the 
end; 
(2) in paragraph (3) by striking the period and 
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(4) from funds appropriated under section 
174(c)— 
‘‘(A) to a State to provide the assistance described 
in subsection (f) to any eligible worker 
(as defined in subsection (f)(4)(B)); and 

‘‘(B) to a State to provide the assistance described 
in subsection (g) to any eligible worker 
(as defined in subsection (g)(5)).’’. 

(b) USE OF FUNDS FOR HEALTH INSURANCE 
COVERAGE.—Section 173 of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2918) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(f) HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE ASSISTANCE 
FOR ELIGIBLE WORKERS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Funds made available to a 
State under paragraph (4)(A) of subsection (a) 
may be used by the State for the following: 

‘‘(A) HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE.—To assist 
an eligible worker (as defined in paragraph 
(4)(B)) in enrolling in health insurance coverage 
through— 

‘‘(i) COBRA continuation coverage; 

‘‘(ii) State-based continuation coverage provided 
by the State under a State law that requires 
such coverage even though the coverage 
would not otherwise be required under the provisions 
of law referred to in paragraph (4)(A); 

‘‘(iii) the enrollment of the eligible worker and 
the eligible worker’s spouse and dependents in 
health insurance coverage offered through a 
qualified State high risk pool or other comparable 
State-based health insurance coverage 
alternative; 

‘‘(iv) the enrollment of the eligible worker and 
the eligible worker’s spouse and dependents in 
the health insurance program offered for State 
employees; 

‘‘(v) the enrollment of the eligible worker and 
the eligible worker’s spouse and dependents in a 
State-based health insurance program that is 
comparable to the health insurance program offered 
for State employees; 

‘‘(vi) a direct payment arrangement entered 
into by the State and a group health plan (including 
a multiemployer plan as defined in section 
3(37) of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(37))), an 
issuer of health insurance coverage, an administrator, 
or an employer, as appropriate, on behalf 
of the eligible worker and the eligible worker’s 
spouse and dependents; 

‘‘(vii) the enrollment of the eligible worker 
and the eligible worker’s spouse and dependents 
in a State-operated, State-funded health plan; 

‘‘(viii) the enrollment of the eligible worker 
and the eligible worker’s spouse and dependents 
in health insurance coverage offered through a 
State arrangement with a private sector health 
care coverage purchasing pool; or 

‘‘(ix) in the case of an eligible worker who was 
enrolled in individual health insurance coverage 
during the 6-month period that ends on the date 
on which the worker became unemployed, enrollment 
in such individual health insurance 
coverage. 

‘‘(B) ESTABLISHMENT OF HEALTH INSURANCE 
COVERAGE MECHANISMS.—To establish or 
administer— 

‘‘(i) a qualified State high risk pool for the 
purpose of providing health insurance coverage 
to an eligible worker and the eligible worker’s 
spouse and dependents; 

‘‘(ii) a State-based program for the purpose of 
providing health insurance coverage to an eligible 
worker and the eligible worker’s spouse and 
dependents that is comparable to the State 
health insurance program for State employees; 
or 

‘‘(iii) a program under which the State enters 
into arrangements described in subparagraph 
(A)(vi). 

‘‘(C) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—To pay the 
administrative expenses related to the enrollment 
of eligible workers and the eligible workers 
spouses and dependents in health insurance 
coverage described in subparagraph (A), 
including— 

‘‘(i) eligibility verification activities; 

‘‘(ii) the notification of eligible workers of 
available health insurance coverage options; 

‘‘(iii) processing qualified health insurance 
credit eligibility certificates provided for under 
section 7527 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986; 

‘‘(iv) providing assistance to eligible workers 
in enrolling in health insurance coverage; 

‘‘(v) the development or installation of necessary 
data management systems; and 

‘‘(vi) any other expenses determined appropriate 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO HEALTH INSURANCE 
COVERAGE.—With respect to health insurance 
coverage provided to eligible workers 
under any of clauses (ii) through (viii) of paragraph 
(1)(A), the State shall ensure that— 

‘‘(A) enrollment is guaranteed for workers 
who provide a qualified health insurance credit 
eligibility certificate described in section 7527 of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and who pay 
the remainder of the premium for such enrollment; 


‘‘(B) no pre-existing condition limitations are 
imposed with respect to such eligible workers; 

‘‘(C) the worker is not required (as a condition 
of enrollment or continued enrollment under the 
coverage) to pay a premium or contribution that 
is greater than the premium or contribution for 
a similarly situated individual who is not an eligible 
worker; 

‘‘(D) benefits under the coverage are the same 
as (or substantially similar to) the benefits provided 
to similarly situated individuals who are 
not eligible workers; 

‘‘(E) the standard loss ratio for the coverage is 
not less than 65 percent; 

‘‘(F) in the case of coverage provided under 
paragraph (1)(A)(v), the premiums and benefits 
are comparable to the premiums and benefits applicable 
to State employees; and 

‘‘(G) such coverage otherwise meets requirements 
established by the Secretary. 

‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.— 

‘‘(A) EXPEDITED PROCEDURES.—With respect 
to applications submitted by States for grants 
under this subsection, the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(i) not later than 15 days after the date on 
which the Secretary receives a completed application 
from a State, notify the State of the determination 
of the Secretary with respect to the 
approval or disapproval of such application; 

‘‘(ii) in the case of a State application that is 
disapproved by the Secretary, provide technical 
assistance, at the request of the State, in a timely 
manner to enable the State to submit an approved 
application; and 

‘‘(iii) develop procedures to expedite the provision 
of funds to States with approved applications. 


‘‘(B) AVAILABILITY AND DISTRIBUTION OF 
FUNDS.—The Secretary shall ensure that funds 
made available under section 174(c)(1)(A) to 
carry out subsection (a)(4)(A) are available to 
States throughout the period described in section 
174(c)(2)(A). 

‘‘(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection: 


‘‘(A) COBRA CONTINUATION COVERAGE.—The 
term ‘COBRA continuation coverage’ means 
coverage under a group health plan provided by 
an employer pursuant to title XXII of the Public 
Health Service Act, section 4980B of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, part 6 of subtitle B of 
title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974, or section 8905a of title 5, 
United States Code. 

‘‘(B) ELIGIBLE WORKER.—The term ‘eligible 
worker’ means an individual who— 

‘‘(i) is qualified to receive payment of a trade 
adjustment allowance under section 235 of the 
Trade Act of 1974, as amended by section 111 of 
the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 
2002; 

‘‘(ii) does not have other specified coverage; 
and 

‘‘(iii) is not imprisoned under Federal, State, 
or local authority. 

‘‘(C) OTHER SPECIFIED COVERAGE.—With respect 
to any individual, the term ‘other specified 
coverage’ means— 

‘‘(i) SUBSIDIZED COVERAGE.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Such individual is covered 
under any health insurance coverage under 
which at least 50 percent of the cost of coverage 
(determined under section 4980B of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986) is paid or incurred by an 
employer (or former employer) of the individual 
or the individual’s spouse. 

‘‘(II) TREATMENT OF CAFETERIA PLANS AND 
FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS.—For purposes of 
subclause (I), the cost of benefits which are chosen 
under a cafeteria plan (as defined in section 
125(d) of such Code), or provided under a flexible 
spending or similar arrangement, of such an 
employer, and which are not includible in gross 
income under section 106 of such Code, shall be 
treated as borne by such employer. 

‘‘(ii) COVERAGE UNDER MEDICARE, MEDICAID, 
OR SCHIP.—Such individual— 

‘‘(I) is entitled to benefits under part A of title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act or is enrolled 
under part B of such title, or 

‘‘(II) is enrolled in the program under title 
XIX or XXI of such Act (other than under section 
1928). 

‘‘(iii) CERTAIN OTHER COVERAGE.—Such 
individual— 

‘‘(I) is enrolled in a health benefits plan under 
chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code; 

‘‘(II) is entitled to receive benefits under chapter 
55 of title 10, United States Code; 

‘‘(III) is entitled to receive benefits under 
chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code; or 

‘‘(IV) is eligible for benefits under the Indian 
Health Care Improvement Act. 
Such term does not include coverage under a 
qualified long-term care insurance contract (as 
defined in section 7702B(b)(1) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986). 

‘‘(D) GROUP HEALTH PLAN.—The term ‘group 
health plan’ has the meaning given that term in 
section 2791(a) of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 300gg–91(a)), section 607(1) of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 
(29 U.S.C. 1167(1)), and section 4980B(g)(2) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 

‘‘(E) HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE.—The term 
‘health insurance coverage’ has the meaning 
given that term in section 2791(b)(1) of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg–91(b)(1)) 
(other than insurance if substantially all of its 
coverage is of excepted benefits described in section 
2791(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg–91(c)) 
. 

‘‘(F) INDIVIDUAL HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE.—
The term ‘individual health insurance 
coverage’ means health insurance coverage offered 
to individuals other than in connection 
with a group health plan. Such term does not 
include Federal- or State-based health insurance 
coverage. 

‘‘(G) QUALIFIED STATE HIGH RISK POOL.—The 
term ‘qualified State high risk pool’ has the 
meaning given that term in section 2744(c)(2) of 
the Public Health Service Act. 

‘‘(H) STANDARD LOSS RATIO.—The term ‘standard 
loss ratio’, with respect to the pool of insured 
individuals under coverage described in 
clauses (ii) through (viii) of subparagraph (A) 
for a year, means— 

‘‘(i) the amount of claims incurred with respect 
to the pool of insured individuals in each 
such type of coverage for such year; divided by 

‘‘(ii) the premiums paid for enrollment in each 
such coverage for such year. 


S4908 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

‘‘(g) INTERIM HEALTH AND OTHER ASSISTANCE.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Funds made available to a 
State under paragraph (4)(B) of subsection (a) 
may be used by the State to provide assistance 
and support services to eligible workers, including 
health care coverage, transportation, child 
care, dependent care, and income assistance. 

‘‘(2) INCOME SUPPORT.—With respect to any 
income assistance provided to an eligible worker 
with such funds, such assistance shall supplement 
and not supplant other income support or 
assistance provided under chapter 2 of title II of 
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271 et seq.) (as 
in effect on the day before the effective date of 
the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 
2002) or the unemployment compensation laws 
of the State where the eligible worker resides. 

‘‘(3) HEALTH CARE COVERAGE.—With respect to 
any health care coverage assistance provided to 
an eligible worker with such funds, the following 
rules shall apply: 

‘‘(A) The State may provide assistance in obtaining 
health care coverage to the eligible 
worker and to the eligible worker’s spouse and 
dependents. 

‘‘(B) Such assistance shall supplement and 
may not supplant any other State or local funds 
used to provide health care coverage and may 
not be included in determining the amount of 
non-Federal contributions required under any 
program. 

‘‘(4) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.— 

‘‘(A) EXPEDITED PROCEDURES.—With respect 
to applications submitted by States for grants 
under this subsection, the Secretary shall— 

‘‘(i) not later than 15 days after the date on 
which the Secretary receives a completed application 
from a State, notify the State of the determination 
of the Secretary with respect to the 
approval or disapproval of such application; 

‘‘(ii) in the case of a State application that is 
disapproved by the Secretary, provide technical 
assistance, at the request of the State, in a timely 
manner to enable the State to submit an approved 
application; and 

‘‘(iii) develop procedures to expedite the provision 
of funds to States with approved applications. 


‘‘(B) AVAILABILITY AND DISTRIBUTION OF 
FUNDS.—The Secretary shall ensure that funds 
made available under section 174(c)(1)(B) to 
carry out subsection (a)(4)(B) are available to 
States throughout the period described in section 
174(c)(2)(B). 

‘‘(5) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE WORKER.—In this 
subsection, the term ‘eligible worker’ means an 
individual who is a member of a group of workers 
certified after April 1, 2002 under chapter 2 
of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (as in effect 
on the day before the effective date of the Trade 
Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002) and 
who is determined to be qualified to receive payment 
of a trade adjustment allowance under 
such chapter (as so in effect).’’. 

(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Section 
174 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 
(29 U.S.C. 2919) is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(c) ASSISTANCE FOR ELIGIBLE WORKERS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be 
appropriated— 

‘‘(A) to carry out subsection (a)(4)(A) of section 
173— 

‘‘(i) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2002; and 

‘‘(ii) $60,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2003 
through 2007; and 

‘‘(B) to carry out subsection (a)(4)(B) of section 
173— 

‘‘(i) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2002; 

‘‘(ii) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2003; and 

‘‘(iii) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2004. 

‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Funds appropriated 
under— 

‘‘(A) paragraph (1)(A) for each fiscal year 
shall, notwithstanding section 189(g), remain 
available for obligation during the pendency of 
any outstanding claim under the Trade Act of 

1974, as amended by the Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Reform Act of 2002; and 

‘‘(B) paragraph (1)(B), for each fiscal year 
shall, notwithstanding section 189(g), remain 
available during the period that begins on the 
date of enactment of the Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Reform Act of 2002 and ends on September 
30, 2004.’’. 

(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
132(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce Investment Act of 
1998 (29 U.S.C. 2862(a)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting 
‘‘, other than under subsection (a)(4), 
(f), and (g)’’ after ‘‘grants’’. 
(e) TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF COBRA ELECTION 
PERIOD FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the election period for COBRA 
continuation coverage (as defined in section 
6429(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) 
with respect to any eligible individual (as defined 
in section 6429(c) of such Code) for whom 
such period has expired as of the date of the enactment 
of this Act, shall not end before the 
date that is 60 days after the date the individual 
becomes such an eligible individual. 
(2) PREEXISTING CONDITIONS.—If an individual 
becomes such an eligible individual, any period 
before the date of such eligibility shall be disregarded 
for purposes of determining the 63-day 
periods referred to in section 701(c)(2) of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 
(29 U.S.C. 1181(c)(2)), section 2701(c)(2) of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300gg(c)(2)), and section 9801(c)(2) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986. 
TITLE VII—CONFORMING AMENDMENTS 
AND EFFECTIVE DATE 
SEC. 701. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS. 

(a) AMENDMENTS TO THE TRADE ACT OF 
1974.— 
(1) ASSISTANCE TO INDUSTRIES.—Section 265 of 
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2355) is amended 
by striking ‘‘certified as eligible to apply for 
adjustment assistance under sections 231 or 
251’’, and inserting ‘‘certified as eligible for 
trade adjustment assistance benefits under section 
231, or as eligible to apply for adjustment 
assistance under section 251’’. 
(2) GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE REPORT.— 
Section 280 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2391) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 280. GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE REPORT. 


‘‘(a) STUDY AND REPORT.—The Comptroller 
General of the United States shall conduct a 
study of the adjustment assistance programs established 
under chapters 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7 of this 
title and shall report the results of such study to 
the Congress no later than January 31, 2005. 
Such report shall include an evaluation of— 

‘‘(1) the effectiveness of such programs in aiding 
workers, farmers, fishermen, firms, and communities 
to adjust to changed economic conditions 
resulting from changes in the patterns of 
international trade; and 

‘‘(2) the coordination of the administration of 
such programs and other Government programs 
which provide unemployment compensation and 
relief to depressed areas. 

‘‘(b) ASSISTANCE OF OTHER DEPARTMENTS AND 
AGENCIES.—In carrying out his responsibilities 
under this section, the Comptroller General 
shall, to the extent practical, avail himself of 
the assistance of the Departments of Labor, 
Commerce, and Agriculture and the Small Business 
Administration. The Secretaries of Labor, 
Commerce, and Agriculture and the Administrator 
of the Small Business Administration 
shall make available to the Comptroller General 
any assistance necessary for an effective evaluation 
of the adjustment assistance programs 
established under this title.’’. 

(3) COORDINATION.—Section 281 of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2392) is amended by striking 
‘‘Departments of Labor and Commerce’’ and 
inserting ‘‘Departments of Labor, Commerce, 
and Agriculture’’. 
(4) TRADE MONITORING SYSTEM.—Section 282 
of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2393) is 
amended by striking ‘‘The Secretary of Commerce 
and the Secretary of Labor’’ and inserting 
‘‘The Secretaries of Commerce, Labor, and Agriculture’’. 
(5) JUDICIAL REVIEW.— 
(A) Section 284(a) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 
U.S.C. 2395(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘under 
section 223 or section 250(c)’’ and all that follows 
through ‘‘the Secretary of Commerce under 
section 271’’ and inserting ‘‘under section 231, a 
firm or its representative, or any other interested 
domestic party aggrieved by a final determination 
of the Secretary of Commerce under 
section 251, an agricultural commodity producer 
(as defined in section 291(2)) aggrieved by a determination 
of the Secretary of Agriculture 
under section 293, or a producer (as defined in 
section 299(2)) aggrieved by a determination of 
the Secretary of Commerce under section 299B’’. 
(B) Section 284 of such Trade Act of 1974 is 
amended in the second sentence of subsection 
(a) and in subsections (b) and (c), by inserting 
‘‘or the Secretary of Agriculture’’ after ‘‘Secretary 
of Commerce’’ each place it appears. 
(6) TERMINATION.—Section 285 of the Trade 
Act of 1974 is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘SEC. 285. TERMINATION. 

‘‘(a) ASSISTANCE FOR WORKERS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph 
(2), trade adjustment assistance, vouchers, 
allowances, and other payments or benefits 
may not be provided under chapter 2 after September 
30, 2007. 

‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding paragraph 
(1), a worker shall continue to receive trade adjustment 
assistance benefits and other benefits 
under chapter 2 for any week for which the 
worker meets the eligibility requirements of that 
chapter, if on or before September 30, 2007, the 
worker is— 

‘‘(A) certified as eligible for trade adjustment 
assistance benefits under section 231; and 

‘‘(B) otherwise eligible to receive trade adjustment 
assistance benefits under chapter 2. 

‘‘(b) OTHER ASSISTANCE.— 

‘‘(1) ASSISTANCE FOR FIRMS.—Technical assistance 
may not be provided under chapter 3 after 
September 30, 2007. 

‘‘(2) ASSISTANCE FOR COMMUNITIES.—Technical 
assistance and other payments may not be 
provided under chapter 4 after September 30, 
2007. 

‘‘(3) ASSISTANCE FOR FARMERS AND FISHERMEN.— 


‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph 
(B), adjustment assistance, vouchers, 
allowances, and other payments or benefits may 
not be provided under chapter 6 or 7 after September 
30, 2007. 

‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding subparagraph 
(A), an agricultural commodity producer 
(as defined in section 291(2)) or producer (as defined 
in section 299(2)), shall continue to receive 
adjustment assistance benefits and other benefits 
under chapter 6 or 7, whichever applies, for 
any week for which the agricultural commodity 
producer or producer meets the eligibility requirements 
of chapter 6 or 7, whichever applies, 
if on or before September 30, 2007, the agricultural 
commodity producer or producer is— 

‘‘(i) certified as eligible for adjustment assistance 
benefits under chapter 6 or 7, whichever 
applies; and 

‘‘(ii) is otherwise eligible to receive adjustment 
assistance benefits under such chapter 6 or 7.’’. 

(6) TABLE OF CONTENTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The table of contents for 
chapters 2, 3, and 4 of title II of the Trade Act 
of 1974 is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘CHAPTER 2—ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR 
WORKERS 

‘‘SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL PROVISIONS 
‘‘Sec. 221. Definitions. 
‘‘Sec. 222. Agreements with States. 
‘‘Sec. 223. Administration absent State 

agreement. 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4909 

‘‘Sec. 224. Data collection; evaluations; re-after the items relating to chapter 5 the fol-(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘section 223’’ 

ports. lowing: and inserting ‘‘section 231’’; 

‘‘Sec. 225. Study by Secretary of Labor 
when International Trade Commission 
begins investigation. 

‘‘Sec. 226. Report by Secretary of Labor on 
likely impact of trade agreements. 
‘‘SUBCHAPTER B—CERTIFICATIONS 
‘‘Sec. 231. Certification as adversely affected 
workers. 
‘‘Sec. 232. Benefit information to workers. 
‘‘SUBCHAPTER C—PROGRAM BENEFITS 
‘‘PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS 
‘‘Sec. 234. Comprehensive assistance. 
‘‘PART II—TRADE ADJUSTMENT ALLOWANCES 
‘‘Sec. 235. Qualifying requirements for 

workers. 
‘‘Sec. 236. Weekly amounts. 
‘‘Sec. 237. Limitations on trade adjustment 

allowances. 
‘‘Sec. 238. Application of State laws. 
‘‘PART III—EMPLOYMENT SERVICES, TRAINING, 

AND OTHER ALLOWANCES 
‘‘Sec. 239. Employment services. 
‘‘Sec. 240. Training. 
‘‘Sec. 240A. Job training programs. 
‘‘Sec. 241. Job search allowances. 
‘‘Sec. 242. Relocation allowances. 
‘‘Sec. 243. Supportive services; wage insur


ance. 
‘‘SUBCHAPTER D—PAYMENT AND ENFORCEMENT 
PROVISIONS 
‘‘Sec. 244. Payments to States. 
‘‘Sec. 245. Liabilities of certifying and disbursing 
officers. 
‘‘Sec. 246. Fraud and recovery of overpayments. 
‘‘Sec. 247. Criminal penalties. 
‘‘Sec. 248. Authorization of appropriations. 
‘‘Sec. 249. Regulations. 
‘‘Sec. 250. Subpoena power. 
‘‘CHAPTER 3—TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 
FOR FIRMS 
‘‘Sec. 251. Petitions and determinations. 
‘‘Sec. 252. Approval of adjustment proposals. 
‘‘Sec. 253. Technical assistance. 
‘‘Sec. 254. Financial assistance. 
‘‘Sec. 255. Conditions for financial assistance. 


‘‘Sec. 256. Delegation of functions to Small 
Business Administration; authorization 
of appropriations. 

‘‘Sec. 257. Administration of financial as


sistance. 
‘‘Sec. 258. Protective provisions. 
‘‘Sec. 259. Penalties. 
‘‘Sec. 260. Suits. 
‘‘Sec. 261. Definition of firm. 
‘‘Sec. 262. Regulations. 
‘‘Sec. 264. Study by Secretary of Commerce 

when International Trade Commission 
begins investigation; action 
where there is affirmative 
finding. 

‘‘Sec. 265. Assistance to industries. 
‘‘CHAPTER 4—COMMUNITY ECONOMIC 
ADJUSTMENT 
‘‘Sec. 271. Definitions. 
‘‘Sec. 272. Office of Community Trade Adjustment. 
‘‘Sec. 273. Notification and certification as 
an eligible community. 
‘‘Sec. 274. Community Economic Development 
Coordinating Committee. 
‘‘Sec. 275. Community economic adjustment 
advisors. 
‘‘Sec. 276. Strategic plans. 
‘‘Sec. 277. Grants for economic development. 
‘‘Sec. 278. Authorization of appropriations. 
‘‘Sec. 279. General provisions.’’. 

(B) CHAPTERS 6 AND 7.—The table of contents 
for title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended 
by subparagraph (A), is amended by inserting 
‘‘CHAPTER 6—ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR 

FARMERS 
‘‘Sec. 291. Definitions. 
‘‘Sec. 292. Petitions; group eligibility. 
‘‘Sec. 293. Determinations by Secretary of Agri


culture. 

‘‘Sec. 294. Study by Secretary of Agriculture 
when International Trade Commission 
begins investigation. 

‘‘Sec. 295. Benefit information to agricultural 
commodity producers. 
‘‘Sec. 296. Qualifying requirements for agricul


tural commodity producers. 
‘‘Sec. 297. Fraud and recovery of overpayments. 
‘‘Sec. 298. Authorization of appropriations. 

‘‘CHAPTER 7—ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR 

FISHERMEN 
‘‘Sec. 299. Definitions. 
‘‘Sec. 299A. Petitions; group eligibility. 
‘‘Sec. 299B. Determinations by Secretary. 
‘‘Sec. 299C. Study by Secretary when Inter


national Trade Commission begins 

investigation. 
‘‘Sec. 299D. Benefit information to producers. 
‘‘Sec. 299E. Qualifying requirements for pro


ducers. 
‘‘Sec. 299F. Fraud and recovery of overpayments. 
‘‘Sec. 299G. Authorization of appropriations.’’. 

(b) INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.— 
(1) ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME.—Section 
62(a)(12) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
(relating to the definition of adjusted gross income) 
is amended by striking ‘‘trade readjustment 
allowances under section 231 or 232’’ and 
inserting ‘‘trade adjustment allowances under 
section 235 or 236’’. 
(2) FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 3304(a)(8) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to the approval 
of State unemployment insurance laws) 
is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(8) compensation shall not be denied to an 
individual for any week because the individual 
is in training with the approval of the State 
agency, or in training approved by the Secretary 
of Labor pursuant to chapter 2 of title II 
of the Trade Act of 1974 (or because of the application, 
to any such week in training, of State 
law provisions relating to availability for work, 
active search for work, or refusal to accept 
work);’’. 

(B) EFFECTIVE DATE.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause 
(ii), the amendments made by this paragraph 
shall apply in the case of compensation paid for 
weeks beginning on or after the date that is 90 
days after the date of enactment of this Act. 
(ii) MEETING OF STATE LEGISLATURE.— 
(I) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary of Labor 
identifies a State as requiring a change to its 
statutes or regulations in order to comply with 
the amendments made by subparagraph (A), the 
amendments made by subparagraph (A) shall 
apply in the case of compensation paid for 
weeks beginning after the earlier of— 
(aa) the date the State changes its statutes or 
regulations in order to comply with the amendments 
made by this section; or 

(bb) the end of the first session of the State 
legislature which begins after the date of enactment 
of this Act or which began prior to such 
date and remained in session for at least 25 calendar 
days after such date; 

except that in no case shall the amendments 
made by this Act apply before the date described 
in clause (i). 

(II) SESSION DEFINED.—In this clause, the term 
‘‘session’’ means a regular, special, budget, or 
other session of a State legislature. 
(c) AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 28.— 
(1) CIVIL ACTIONS AGAINST THE UNITED 
STATES.—Section 1581(d) of title 28, United 
States Code, is amended— 
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’; and 
(C) by striking paragraph (3), and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(3) any final determination of the Secretary 
of Agriculture under section 293 of the Trade 
Act of 1974 with respect to the eligibility of an 
agricultural commodity producer (as defined in 
section 291(2)) for adjustment assistance under 
such Act; and 

‘‘(4) any final determination of the Secretary 
of Commerce under section 299B of the Trade 
Act of 1974 with respect to the eligibility of a 
producer (as defined in section 299(2)) for adjustment 
assistance under such Act.’’. 

(2) PERSONS ENTITLED TO COMMENCE A CIVIL 
ACTION.—Section 2631 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended— 
(A) by amending subsection (d)(1) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(d)(1) A civil action to review any final determination 
of the Secretary of Labor under section 
231 of the Trade Act of 1974 with respect to 
the certification of workers as adversely affected 
and eligible for trade adjustment assistance 
under that Act may be commenced by a worker, 
a group of workers, a certified or recognized 
union, or an authorized representative of such 
worker or group, that petitions for certification 
under that Act or is aggrieved by the final determination.’’; 


(B) by striking paragraph (3), and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(3) A civil action to review any final determination 
of the Secretary of Agriculture under 
section 293 of the Trade Act of 1974 with respect 
to the eligibility of an agricultural commodity 
producer for adjustment assistance may be commenced 
in the Court of International Trade by 
an agricultural commodity producer that applies 
for assistance under such Act and is aggrieved 
by such final determination, or by any other interested 
party that is aggrieved by such final determination.’’; 
and 

(C) by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(4) A civil action to review any final determination 
of the Secretary of Commerce under 
section 299B of the Trade Act of 1974 with respect 
to the eligibility of an producer (as defined 
in section 299(2)) for adjustment assistance may 
be commenced in the Court of International 
Trade by a producer that applies for assistance 
under such Act and is aggrieved by such final 
determination, or by any other interested party 
that is aggrieved by such final determination.’’. 

(3) TIME FOR COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION.— 
Section 2636(d) of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ‘‘under section 223 of the 
Trade Act of 1974 or a final determination of the 
Secretary of Commerce under section 251 or section 
271 of such Act’’ and inserting ‘‘under section 
231 of the Trade Act of 1974, a final determination 
of the Secretary of Commerce under 
section 251 of that Act, a final determination of 
the Secretary of Agriculture under section 293 of 
that Act, or a final determination of the Secretary 
of Commerce under section 299B of that 
Act’’. 
(4) SCOPE AND STANDARD OF REVIEW.—Section 
2640(c) of title 28, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ‘‘under section 223 of the Trade 
Act of 1974 or any final determination of the 
Secretary of Commerce under section 251 or section 
271 of such Act’’ and inserting ‘‘under section 
231 of the Trade Act of 1974, a final determination 
of the Secretary of Commerce under 
section 251 of that Act, a final determination of 
the Secretary of Agriculture under section 293 of 
that Act, or a final determination of the Secretary 
of Commerce under section 299B of that 
Act’’. 
(5) RELIEF.—Section 2643(c)(2) of title 28, 
United States Code, is amended by striking 
‘‘under section 223 of the Trade Act of 1974 or 
any final determination of the Secretary of 
Commerce under section 251 or section 271 of 

S4910 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

such Act’’ and inserting ‘‘under section 231 of 
the Trade Act of 1974, a final determination of 
the Secretary of Commerce under section 251 of 
that Act, a final determination of the Secretary 
of Agriculture under section 293 of that Act, or 
a final determination of the Secretary of Commerce 
under section 299B of that Act’’. 

(d) AMENDMENT TO THE FOOD STAMP ACT OF 
1977.—Section 6(o)(1)(B) of the Food Stamp Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015(o)(1)(B)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘section 236’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
240’’. 
TITLE VIII—SAVINGS PROVISIONS AND 
EFFECTIVE DATE 
SEC. 801. SAVINGS PROVISIONS. 

(a) PROCEEDINGS NOT AFFECTED.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The provisions of this division 
shall not affect any petition for certification 
for benefits under chapter 2 of title II of 
the Trade Act of 1974 that was in effect on September 
30, 2001. Determinations shall be issued, 
appeals shall be taken therefrom, and payments 
shall be made under those determinations, as if 
this division had not been enacted, and orders 
issued in any proceeding shall continue in effect 
until modified, terminated, superseded, or revoked 
by a duly authorized official, by a court 
of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of 
law. 
(2) MODIFICATION OR DISCONTINUANCE.—Nothing 
in this subsection shall be deemed to prohibit 
the discontinuance or modification of any 
proceeding under the same terms and conditions 
and to the same extent that the proceeding 
could have been discontinued or modified if this 
division had not been enacted. 
(b) SUITS NOT AFFECTED.—The provisions of 
this division shall not affect any suit commenced 
before October 1, 2001, and in all those 
suits, proceedings shall be had, appeals taken, 
and judgments rendered in the same manner 
and with the same effect as if this division had 
not been enacted. 
(c) NONABATEMENT OF ACTIONS.—No suit, action, 
or other proceeding commenced by or 
against the Federal Government, or by or 
against any individual in the official capacity 
of that individual as an officer of the Federal 
Government, shall abate by reason of enactment 
of this Act. 
SEC. 802. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided 
in sections 401(b), 501(b), and 701(b)(2)(B), 
titles IX, X, and XI, and subsections (b), (c), 
and (d) of this section, the amendments made by 
this division shall apply to— 
(1) petitions for certification filed under chapter 
2 or 3 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 on 
or after the date that is 90 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act; and 
(2) certifications for assistance under chapter 
4 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 issued on 
or after the date that is 90 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act. 
(b) WORKERS CERTIFIED AS ELIGIBLE BEFORE 
EFFECTIVE DATE.—Notwithstanding subsection 
(a), a worker shall continue to receive (or be eligible 
to receive) trade adjustment assistance and 
other benefits under chapter 2 of title II of the 
Trade Act of 1974, as in effect on September 30, 
2001, for any week for which the worker meets 
the eligibility requirements of such chapter 2 as 
in effect on such date, if on or before such date, 
the worker— 
(1) was certified as eligible for trade adjustment 
assistance benefits under such chapter as 
in effect on such date; and 
(2) would otherwise be eligible to receive trade 
adjustment assistance benefits under such chapter 
as in effect on such date. 
(c) WORKERS WHO BECAME ELIGIBLE DURING 
QUALIFIED PERIOD.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection 
(a) or any other provision of law, including section 
285 of the Trade Act of 1974, any worker 
who would have been eligible to receive trade 
adjustment assistance or other benefits under 
chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act if 1974 during 
the qualified period if such chapter 2 had 
been in effect during such period, shall be eligible 
to receive trade adjustment assistance and 
other benefits under chapter 2 of title II of the 
Trade Act of 1974, as in effect on September 30, 
2001, for any week during the qualified period 
for which the worker meets the eligibility requirements 
of such chapter 2 as in effect on September 
30, 2001. 

(2) QUALIFIED PERIOD.—For purposes of this 
subsection, the term ‘‘qualified period’’ means 
the period beginning on January 11, 2002 and 
ending on the date that is 90 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act. 
(d) ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR FIRMS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection 
(a) or any other provision of law, including section 
285 of the Trade Act of 1974, and except as 
provided in paragraph (2) any firm that would 
have been eligible to receive adjustment assistance 
under chapter 3 of title II of the Trade Act 
if 1974 during the qualified period if such chapter 
3 had been in effect during such period, shall 
be eligible to receive adjustment assistance 
under chapter 3 of title II of the Trade Act of 
1974, as in effect on September 30, 2001, for any 
week during the qualified period for which the 
firm meets the eligibility requirements of such 
chapter 3 as in effect on September 30, 2001. 
(2) QUALIFIED PERIOD.—For purposes of this 
subsection, the term ‘‘qualified period’’ means 
the period beginning on October 1, 2001 and 
ending on the date that is 90 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act. 
TITLE IX—REVENUE PROVISIONS 
SEC. 901. CUSTOM USER FEES. 

Section 13031(j)(3) of the Consolidated Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 
58c(j)(3)) is amended by striking ‘‘September 30, 
2003’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2010’’. 

TITLE X—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 

SEC. 1001. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN LABELING OF 
FISH AND SHELLFISH PRODUCTS. 

(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) COVERED COMMODITY.—The term ‘‘covered 
commodity’’ means— 
(A) a perishable agricultural commodity; and 
(B) any fish or shellfish, and any fillet, steak, 
nugget, or any other flesh from fish or shellfish, 
whether fresh, chilled, frozen, canned, smoked, 
or otherwise preserved. 
(2) FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.—The term 
‘‘food service establishment’’ means a restaurant, 
cafeteria, lunch room, food stand, saloon, 
tavern, bar, lounge, or other similar facility 
operated as an enterprise engaged in the 
business of selling food to the public. 
(3) PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY; 
RETAILER.—The terms ‘‘perishable agricultural 
commodity’’ and ‘‘retailer’’ have the meanings 
given the terms in section 1(b) of the Perishable 
Agricultural Commodities Act, 1930 (7 U.S.C. 
499a(b)). 
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means 
the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the 
Agricultural Marketing Service. 
(b) NOTICE OF COUNTRY OF ORIGIN.— 
(1) REQUIREMENT.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (3), a retailer of a covered commodity 
shall inform consumers, at the final point of 
sale of the covered commodity to consumers, of 
the country of origin of the covered commodity. 
(2) UNITED STATES COUNTRY OF ORIGIN.—A retailer 
of a covered commodity may designate the 
covered commodity as having a United States 
country of origin only if the covered commodity 
is exclusively harvested and processed in the 
United States, or in the case of farm-raised fish 
and shellfish, is hatched, raised, harvested, and 
processed in the United States. 
(3) EXEMPTION FOR FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISH-
MENTS.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a covered 
commodity if the covered commodity is prepared 
or served in a food service establishment, 
and— 
(A) offered for sale or sold at the food service 
establishment in normal retail quantities; or 
(B) served to consumers at the food service establishment. 
(c) METHOD OF NOTIFICATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The information required by 
subsection (b) may be provided to consumers by 
means of a label, stamp, mark, placard, or other 
clear and visible sign on the covered commodity 
or on the package, display, holding unit, or bin 
containing the covered commodity at the final 
point of sale to consumers. 
(2) LABELED COMMODITIES.—If the covered 
commodity is already individually labeled for retail 
sale regarding country of origin, the retailer 
shall not be required to provide any additional 
information to comply with this section. 
(d) AUDIT VERIFICATION SYSTEM.—The Secretary 
may require that any person that prepares, 
stores, handles, or distributes a covered 
commodity for retail sale maintain a verifiable 
recordkeeping audit trail that will permit the 
Secretary to ensure compliance with the regulations 
promulgated under subsection (g). 
(e) INFORMATION.—Any person engaged in the 
business of supplying a covered commodity to a 
retailer shall provide information to the retailer 
indicating the country of origin of the covered 
commodity. 
(f) ENFORCEMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Federal agency having 
jurisdiction over retailers of covered commodities 
shall, at such time as the necessary regulations 
are adopted under subsection (g), adopt measures 
intended to ensure that the requirements of 
this section are followed by affected retailers. 
(2) VIOLATION.—A violation of subsection (b) 
shall be treated as a violation under the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621 et 
seq.). 
(g) REGULATIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may promulgate 
such regulations as are necessary to carry 
out this section within 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act. 
(2) PARTNERSHIPS WITH STATES.—In promulgating 
the regulations, the Secretary shall, to 
the maximum extent practicable, enter into partnerships 
with States that have the enforcement 
infrastructure necessary to carry out this section. 
(h) APPLICATION.—This section shall apply to 
the retail sale of a covered commodity beginning 
on the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act. 
SEC. 1002. SUGAR POLICY. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that— 
(1) the tariff-rate quotas imposed on imports 
of sugar, syrups and sugar-containing products 
under chapters 17, 18, 19, and 21 of the Harmonized 
Tariff Schedule of the United States 
are an essential element of United States sugar 
policy; 
(2) circumvention of the tariff-rate quotas 
will, if unchecked, make it impossible to achieve 
the objectives of United States sugar policy; 
(3) the tariff-rate quotas have been circumvented 
frequently, defeating the purposes of 
United States sugar policy and causing disruption 
to the United States market for sweeteners, 
injury to domestic growers, refiners, and processors 
of sugar, and adversely affecting legitimate 
exporters of sugar to the United States; 
(4) it is essential to United States sugar policy 
that the tariff-rate quotas be enforced and that 
deceptive practices be prevented, including the 
importation of products with no commercial use 
and failure to disclose all relevant information 
to the United States Customs Service; and 
(5) unless action is taken to prevent circumvention, 
circumvention of the tariff-rate 
quotas will continue and will ultimately destroy 
United States sugar policy. 
(b) POLICY.—It is the policy of the United 
States to maintain the integrity of the tariff-rate 
quotas on sugars, syrups, and sugar-containing 
products by stopping circumvention as soon as it 
becomes apparent. It is also the policy of the 
United States that products not used to circumvent 
the tariff-rate quotas, such as molasses 

June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4911 

used for animal feed or for rum, not be affected 
by any action taken pursuant to this Act. 

(c) IDENTIFICATION OF IMPORTS.— 
(1) IDENTIFICATION.—Not later than 30 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, and on 
a regular basis thereafter, the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall— 
(A) identify imports of articles that are circumventing 
tariff-rate quotas on sugars, syrups, 
or sugar-containing products imposed under 
chapter 17, 18, 19, or 21 of the Harmonized Tariff 
Schedule of the United States; and 
(B) report to the President the articles found 
to be circumventing the tariff-rate quotas. 
(2) ACTION BY PRESIDENT.—Upon receiving the 
report from the Secretary of Agriculture, the 
President shall, by proclamation, include any 
article identified by the Secretary in the appropriate 
tariff-rate quota provision of the Harmonized 
Tariff Schedule. 
TITLE XI—CUSTOMS REAUTHORIZATION 
SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the ‘‘Customs Border 
Security Act of 2002’’. 

Subtitle A—United States Customs Service 
CHAPTER 1—DRUG ENFORCEMENT AND 
OTHER NONCOMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL 
OPERATIONS 

SEC. 1111. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS 
FOR NONCOMMERCIAL OPERATIONS, 
COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS, AND AIR 
AND MARINE INTERDICTION. 

(a) NONCOMMERCIAL OPERATIONS.—Section 
301(b)(1) of the Customs Procedural Reform and 
Simplification Act of 1978 (19 U.S.C. 2075(b)(1)) 
is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A) to read as follows: 
‘‘(A) $886,513,000 for fiscal year 2003.’’; and 
(2) in subparagraph (B) to read as follows: 
‘‘(B) $909,471,000 for fiscal year 2004.’’. 
(b) COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 301(b)(2)(A) of the 
Customs Procedural Reform and Simplification 
Act of 1978 (19 U.S.C. 2075(b)(2)(A)) is 
amended— 
(A) in clause (i) to read as follows: 
‘‘(i) $1,603,482,000 for fiscal year 2003.’’; and 
(B) in clause (ii) to read as follows: 
‘‘(ii) $1,645,009,000 for fiscal year 2004.’’. 
(2) AUTOMATED COMMERCIAL ENVIRONMENT 
COMPUTER SYSTEM.—Of the amount made available 
for each of fiscal years 2003 and 2004 under 
section 301(b)(2)(A) of the Customs Procedural 
Reform and Simplification Act of 1978 (19 U.S.C. 
2075(b)(2)(A)), as amended by paragraph (1), 
$308,000,000 shall be available until expended for 
each such fiscal year for the development, establishment, 
and implementation of the Automated 
Commercial Environment computer system. 
(3) REPORTS.—Not later than 90 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, and not later 
than each subsequent 90-day period, the Commissioner 
of Customs shall prepare and submit 
to the Committee on Ways and Means of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Finance of the Senate a report demonstrating 
that the development and establishment of the 
Automated Commercial Environment computer 
system is being carried out in a cost-effective 
manner and meets the modernization requirements 
of title VI of the North American Free 
Trade Agreements Implementation Act. 
(c) AIR AND MARINE INTERDICTION.—Section 
301(b)(3) of the Customs Procedural Reform and 
Simplification Act of 1978 (19 U.S.C. 2075(b)(3)) 
is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A) to read as follows: 
‘‘(A) $181,860,000 for fiscal year 2003.’’; and 
(2) in subparagraph (B) to read as follows: 
‘‘(B) $186,570,000 for fiscal year 2004.’’. 
(d) SUBMISSION OF OUT-YEAR BUDGET PROJECTIONS.—
Section 301(a) of the Customs Procedural 
Reform and Simplification Act of 1978 (19 
U.S.C. 2075(a)) is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(3) By not later than the date on which the 
President submits to Congress the budget of the 

United States Government for a fiscal year, the 
Commissioner of Customs shall submit to the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Finance 
of the Senate the projected amount of funds for 
the succeeding fiscal year that will be necessary 
for the operations of the Customs Service as provided 
for in subsection (b).’’. 

SEC. 1112. ANTITERRORIST AND ILLICIT NARCOTICS 
DETECTION EQUIPMENT 
FOR THE UNITED STATES-MEXICO 
BORDER, UNITED STATES-CANADA 
BORDER, AND FLORIDA AND THE 
GULF COAST SEAPORTS. 

(a) FISCAL YEAR 2003.—Of the amounts made 
available for fiscal year 2003 under section 
301(b)(1)(A) of the Customs Procedural Reform 
and Simplification Act of 1978 (19 U.S.C. 
2075(b)(1)(A)), as amended by section 1111(a) of 
this title, $90,244,000 shall be available until expended 
for acquisition and other expenses associated 
with implementation and deployment of 
antiterrorist and illicit narcotics detection 
equipment along the United States-Mexico border, 
the United States-Canada border, and Florida 
and the Gulf Coast seaports, as follows: 
(1) UNITED STATES-MEXICO BORDER.—For the 
United States-Mexico border, the following: 
(A) $6,000,000 for 8 Vehicle and Container Inspection 
Systems (VACIS). 
(B) $11,200,000 for 5 mobile truck x-rays with 
transmission and backscatter imaging. 
(C) $13,000,000 for the upgrade of 8 fixed-site 
truck x-rays from the present energy level of 
450,000 electron volts to 1,000,000 electron volts 
(1–MeV). 
(D) $7,200,000 for 8 1–MeV pallet x-rays. 

(E) $1,000,000 for 200 portable contraband detectors 
(busters) to be distributed among ports 
where the current allocations are inadequate. 
(F) $600,000 for 50 contraband detection kits to 
be distributed among all southwest border ports 
based on traffic volume. 
(G) $500,000 for 25 ultrasonic container inspection 
units to be distributed among all ports receiving 
liquid-filled cargo and to ports with a 
hazardous material inspection facility. 
(H) $2,450,000 for 7 automated targeting systems. 
(I) $360,000 for 30 rapid tire deflator systems to 
be distributed to those ports where port runners 
are a threat. 
(J) $480,000 for 20 portable Treasury Enforcement 
Communications Systems (TECS) terminals 
to be moved among ports as needed. 
(K) $1,000,000 for 20 remote watch surveillance 
camera systems at ports where there are suspicious 
activities at loading docks, vehicle 
queues, secondary inspection lanes, or areas 
where visual surveillance or observation is obscured. 
(L) $1,254,000 for 57 weigh-in-motion sensors 
to be distributed among the ports with the greatest 
volume of outbound traffic. 
(M) $180,000 for 36 AM traffic information 
radio stations, with 1 station to be located at 
each border crossing. 
(N) $1,040,000 for 260 inbound vehicle counters 
to be installed at every inbound vehicle lane. 
(O) $950,000 for 38 spotter camera systems to 
counter the surveillance of customs inspection 
activities by persons outside the boundaries of 
ports where such surveillance activities are occurring. 
(P) $390,000 for 60 inbound commercial truck 
transponders to be distributed to all ports of 
entry. 
(Q) $1,600,000 for 40 narcotics vapor and particle 
detectors to be distributed to each border 
crossing. 
(R) $400,000 for license plate reader automatic 
targeting software to be installed at each port to 
target inbound vehicles. 
(2) UNITED STATES-CANADA BORDER.—For the 
United States-Canada border, the following: 
(A) $3,000,000 for 4 Vehicle and Container Inspection 
Systems (VACIS). 
(B) $8,800,000 for 4 mobile truck x-rays with 
transmission and backscatter imaging. 
(C) $3,600,000 for 4 1–MeV pallet x-rays. 

(D) $250,000 for 50 portable contraband detectors 
(busters) to be distributed among ports 
where the current allocations are inadequate. 
(E) $300,000 for 25 contraband detection kits to 
be distributed among ports based on traffic volume. 
(F) $240,000 for 10 portable Treasury Enforcement 
Communications Systems (TECS) terminals 
to be moved among ports as needed. 
(G) $400,000 for 10 narcotics vapor and particle 
detectors to be distributed to each border 
crossing based on traffic volume. 
(3) FLORIDA AND GULF COAST SEAPORTS.—For 
Florida and the Gulf Coast seaports, the following: 
(A) $4,500,000 for 6 Vehicle and Container Inspection 
Systems (VACIS). 
(B) $11,800,000 for 5 mobile truck x-rays with 
transmission and backscatter imaging. 
(C) $7,200,000 for 8 1–MeV pallet x-rays. 

(D) $250,000 for 50 portable contraband detectors 
(busters) to be distributed among ports 
where the current allocations are inadequate. 
(E) $300,000 for 25 contraband detection kits to 
be distributed among ports based on traffic volume. 
(b) FISCAL YEAR 2004.—Of the amounts made 
available for fiscal year 2004 under section 
301(b)(1)(B) of the Customs Procedural Reform 
and Simplification Act of 1978 (19 U.S.C. 
2075(b)(1)(B)), as amended by section 1111(a) of 
this title, $9,000,000 shall be available until expended 
for the maintenance and support of the 
equipment and training of personnel to maintain 
and support the equipment described in 
subsection (a). 
(c) ACQUISITION OF TECHNOLOGICALLY SUPERIOR 
EQUIPMENT; TRANSFER OF FUNDS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commissioner of Customs 
may use amounts made available for fiscal 
year 2003 under section 301(b)(1)(A) of the Customs 
Procedural Reform and Simplification Act 
of 1978 (19 U.S.C. 2075(b)(1)(A)), as amended by 
section 1111(a) of this title, for the acquisition of 
equipment other than the equipment described 
in subsection (a) if such other equipment— 
(A)(i) is technologically superior to the equipment 
described in subsection (a); and 

(ii) will achieve at least the same results at a 
cost that is the same or less than the equipment 
described in subsection (a); or 
(B) can be obtained at a lower cost than the 
equipment described in subsection (a). 
(2) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this section, the Commissioner 
of Customs may reallocate an amount not 
to exceed 10 percent of— 
(A) the amount specified in any of subparagraphs 
(A) through (R) of subsection (a)(1) for 
equipment specified in any other of such sub-
paragraphs (A) through (R); 
(B) the amount specified in any of subparagraphs 
(A) through (G) of subsection (a)(2) for 
equipment specified in any other of such sub-
paragraphs (A) through (G); and 
(C) the amount specified in any of subparagraphs 
(A) through (E) of subsection (a)(3) for 
equipment specified in any other of such sub-
paragraphs (A) through (E). 
SEC. 1113. COMPLIANCE WITH PERFORMANCE 
PLAN REQUIREMENTS. 

As part of the annual performance plan for 
each of the fiscal years 2003 and 2004 covering 
each program activity set forth in the budget of 
the United States Customs Service, as required 
under section 1115 of title 31, United States 
Code, the Commissioner of Customs shall establish 
performance goals, performance indicators, 
and comply with all other requirements contained 
in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection 
(a) of such section with respect to each 
of the activities to be carried out pursuant to 
sections 1121 of this title. 


S4912 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

CHAPTER 2—CHILD CYBER-SMUGGLING 
CENTER OF THE CUSTOMS SERVICE 

SEC. 1121. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS 
FOR PROGRAM TO PREVENT CHILD 
PORNOGRAPHY/CHILD SEXUAL EXPLOITATION. 


(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Customs Service $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2003 
to carry out the program to prevent child pornography/
child sexual exploitation established 
by the Child Cyber-Smuggling Center of the 
Customs Service. 
(b) USE OF AMOUNTS FOR CHILD PORNOGRAPHY 
CYBER TIPLINE.—Of the amount appropriated 
under subsection (a), the Customs Service 
shall provide 3.75 percent of such amount to 
the National Center for Missing and Exploited 
Children for the operation of the child pornography 
cyber tipline of the Center and for increased 
public awareness of the tipline. 
CHAPTER 3—MISCELLANEOUS 
PROVISIONS 

SEC. 1131. ADDITIONAL CUSTOMS SERVICE OFFICERS 
FOR UNITED STATES-CANADA 
BORDER. 

Of the amount made available for fiscal year 
2003 under paragraphs (1) and (2)(A) of section 
301(b) of the Customs Procedural Reform and 
Simplification Act of 1978 (19 U.S.C. 2075(b)), as 
amended by section 1111 of this title, $25,000,000 
shall be available until expended for the Customs 
Service to hire approximately 285 additional 
Customs Service officers to address the 
needs of the offices and ports along the United 
States-Canada border. 

SEC. 1132. STUDY AND REPORT RELATING TO 
PERSONNEL PRACTICES OF THE 
CUSTOMS SERVICE. 

(a) STUDY.—The Commissioner of Customs 
shall conduct a study of current personnel practices 
of the Customs Service, including an overview 
of performance standards and the effect 
and impact of the collective bargaining process 
on drug interdiction efforts of the Customs Service 
and a comparison of duty rotation policies of 
the Customs Service and other Federal agencies 
that employ similarly-situated personnel. 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 120 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Commissioner 
of Customs shall submit to the Committee on 
Ways and Means of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Finance of the Senate 
a report containing the results of the study 
conducted under subsection (a). 
SEC. 1133. STUDY AND REPORT RELATING TO ACCOUNTING 
AND AUDITING PROCEDURES 
OF THE CUSTOMS SERVICE. 

(a) STUDY.—(1) The Commissioner of Customs 
shall conduct a study of actions by the Customs 
Service to ensure that appropriate training is 
being provided to Customs Service personnel 
who are responsible for financial auditing of importers. 
(2) In conducting the study, the 
Commissioner— 
(A) shall specifically identify those actions 
taken to comply with provisions of law that protect 
the privacy and trade secrets of importers, 
such as section 552(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, and section 1905 of title 18, United States 
Code; and 
(B) shall provide for public notice and comment 
relating to verification of the actions described 
in subparagraph (A). 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 6 months after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Commissioner 
of Customs shall submit to the Committee 
on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Finance of the Senate 
a report containing the results of the study 
conducted under subsection (a). 
SEC. 1134. ESTABLISHMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION 
OF COST ACCOUNTING SYSTEM; 
REPORTS. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than September 30, 
2003, the Commissioner of Customs shall, in accordance 
with the audit of the Customs Service’s 
fiscal years 2000 and 1999 financial statements 
(as contained in the report of the Office of the 
Inspector General of the Department of the 
Treasury issued on February 23, 2001), establish 
and implement a cost accounting system for expenses 
incurred in both commercial and noncommercial 
operations of the Customs Service. 

(2) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT.—The cost accounting 
system described in paragraph (1) shall 
provide for an identification of expenses based 
on the type of operation, the port at which the 
operation took place, the amount of time spent 
on the operation by personnel of the Customs 
Service, and an identification of expenses based 
on any other appropriate classification necessary 
to provide for an accurate and complete 
accounting of the expenses. 
(b) REPORTS.—Beginning on the date of enactment 
of this Act and ending on the date on 
which the cost accounting system described in 
subsection (a) is fully implemented, the Commissioner 
of Customs shall prepare and submit to 
Congress on a quarterly basis a report on the 
progress of implementing the cost accounting 
system pursuant to subsection (a). 
SEC. 1135. STUDY AND REPORT RELATING TO 

TIMELINESS OF PROSPECTIVE RUL


INGS. 

(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study on the extent to which the Office 
of Regulations and Rulings of the Customs 
Service has made improvements to decrease the 
amount of time to issue prospective rulings from 
the date on which a request for the ruling is received 
by the Customs Service. 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General shall submit to the Committee on Ways 
and Means of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report 
containing the results of the study conducted 
under subsection (a). 
(c) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term 
‘‘prospective ruling’’ means a ruling that is requested 
by an importer on goods that are proposed 
to be imported into the United States and 
that relates to the proper classification, valuation, 
or marking of such goods. 
SEC. 1136. STUDY AND REPORT RELATING TO 
CUSTOMS USER FEES. 

(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study on the extent to which the 
amount of each customs user fee imposed under 
section 13031(a) of the Consolidated Omnibus 
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 
58c(a)) is commensurate with the level of services 
provided by the Customs Service relating to 
the fee so imposed. 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 120 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General shall submit to the Committee on Ways 
and Means of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report 
in classified form containing— 
(1) the results of the study conducted under 
subsection (a); and 
(2) recommendations for the appropriate 
amount of the customs user fees if such results 
indicate that the fees are not commensurate 
with the level of services provided by the Customs 
Service. 
SEC. 1137. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS 
FOR CUSTOMS STAFFING. 

There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Department of Treasury such sums as may be 
necessary to provide an increase in the annual 
rate of basic pay— 

(1) for all journeyman Customs inspectors and 
Canine Enforcement Officers who have completed 
at least one year’s service and are receiving 
an annual rate of basic pay for positions at 
GS–9 of the General Schedule under section 5332 
of title 5, United States Code, from the annual 
rate of basic pay payable for positions at GS–9 
of the General Schedule under section 5332, to 
an annual rate of basic pay payable for positions 
at GS–11 of the General Schedule under 
such section 5332; and 

(2) for the support staff associated with the 
personnel described in subparagraph (A), at the 
appropriate GS level of the General Schedule 
under such section 5332. 
CHAPTER 4—ANTITERRORISM 
PROVISIONS 

SEC. 1141. EMERGENCY ADJUSTMENTS TO OFFICES, 
PORTS OF ENTRY, OR STAFFING 
OF THE CUSTOMS SERVICE. 

Section 318 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 
1318) is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘Whenever the President’’ and 
inserting ‘‘(a) Whenever the President’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(b)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Secretary of the Treasury, when necessary 
to respond to a national emergency declared 
under the National Emergencies Act (50 

U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) or to a specific threat to 
human life or national interests, is authorized 
to take the following actions on a temporary 
basis: 
‘‘(A) Eliminate, consolidate, or relocate any 
office or port of entry of the Customs Service. 

‘‘(B) Modify hours of service, alter services 
rendered at any location, or reduce the number 
of employees at any location. 

‘‘(C) Take any other action that may be necessary 
to directly respond to the national emergency 
or specific threat. 

‘‘(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Commissioner of Customs, when necessary 
to respond to a specific threat to human 
life or national interests, is authorized to close 
temporarily any Customs office or port of entry 
or take any other lesser action that may be necessary 
to respond to the specific threat. 

‘‘(3) The Secretary of the Treasury or the 
Commissioner of Customs, as the case may be, 
shall notify the Committee on Ways and Means 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Finance of the Senate not later than 
72 hours after taking any action under paragraph 
(1) or (2).’’. 

SEC. 1142. MANDATORY ADVANCED ELECTRONIC 
INFORMATION FOR CARGO AND PASSENGERS. 


(a) CARGO INFORMATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 431(b) of the Tariff 
Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1431(b)) is amended— 
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘Any 
manifest’’ and inserting ‘‘(1) Any manifest’’; 
and 
(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) In addition to any other requirement 
under this section, for each land, air, or vessel 
carrier required to make entry or obtain clearance 
under the customs laws of the United 
States, the pilot, the master, operator, or owner 
of such carrier (or the authorized agent of such 
operator or owner) shall provide by electronic 
transmission cargo manifest information in advance 
of such entry or clearance in such manner, 
time, and form as prescribed under regulations 
by the Secretary. The Secretary may exclude 
any class of land, air, or vessel carrier for 
which the Secretary concludes the requirements 
of this subparagraph are not necessary.’’. 

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Subparagraphs 
(A) and (C) of section 431(d)(1) of such 
Act are each amended by inserting before the 
semicolon ‘‘or subsection (b)(2)’’. 
(b) PASSENGER INFORMATION.—Part II of title 
IV of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1431 et 
seq.) is amended by inserting after section 431 
the following: 
‘‘SEC. 432. PASSENGER AND CREW MANIFEST INFORMATION 
REQUIRED FOR LAND, 
AIR, OR VESSEL CARRIERS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For every person arriving 
or departing on a land, air, or vessel carrier required 
to make entry or obtain clearance under 
the customs laws of the United States, the pilot, 
the master, operator, or owner of such carrier 
(or the authorized agent of such operator or 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4913 

owner) shall provide by electronic transmission 
manifest information described in subsection (b) 
in advance of such entry or clearance in such 
manner, time, and form as prescribed under regulations 
by the Secretary. 

‘‘(b) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—The information 
described in this subsection shall include 
for each person described in subsection (a), the 
person’s— 

‘‘(1) full name; 

‘‘(2) date of birth and citizenship; 

‘‘(3) gender; 

‘‘(4) passport number and country of issuance; 

‘‘(5) United States visa number or resident 
alien card number, as applicable; 

‘‘(6) passenger name record; and 

‘‘(7) such additional information that the Secretary, 
by regulation, determines is reasonably 
necessary to ensure aviation and maritime safety 
pursuant to the laws enforced or administered 
by the Customs Service.’’. 

(c) DEFINITION.—Section 401 of the Tariff Act 
of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1401) is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘(t) The term ‘land, air, or vessel carrier’ 
means a land, air, or vessel carrier, as the case 
may be, that transports goods or passengers for 
payment or other consideration, including 
money or services rendered.’’. 

(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made 
by this section shall take effect beginning 45 
days after the date of enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 1143. BORDER SEARCH AUTHORITY FOR CER


TAIN CONTRABAND IN OUTBOUND 

MAIL. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Tariff Act of 1930 is 
amended by inserting after section 582 the following: 
‘‘SEC. 583. EXAMINATION OF OUTBOUND MAIL. 

‘‘(a) EXAMINATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of ensuring 
compliance with the Customs laws of the United 
States and other laws enforced by the Customs 
Service, including the provisions of law described 
in paragraph (2), a Customs officer may, 
subject to the provisions of this section, stop and 
search at the border, without a search warrant, 
mail of domestic origin transmitted for export by 
the United States Postal Service and foreign 
mail transiting the United States that is being 
imported or exported by the United States Postal 
Service. 

‘‘(2) PROVISIONS OF LAW DESCRIBED.—The provisions 
of law described in this paragraph are 
the following: 

‘‘(A) Section 5316 of title 31, United States 
Code (relating to reports on exporting and importing 
monetary instruments). 

‘‘(B) Sections 1461, 1463, 1465, and 1466, and 
chapter 110 of title 18, United States Code (relating 
to obscenity and child pornography). 

‘‘(C) Section 1003 of the Controlled Substances 
Import and Export Act (relating to exportation 
of controlled substances) (21 U.S.C. 953). 

‘‘(D) The Export Administration Act of 1979 
(50 U.S.C. App. 2401 et seq.). 

‘‘(E) Section 38 of the Arms Export Control 
Act (22 U.S.C. 2778). 

‘‘(F) The International Emergency Economic 
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.). 

‘‘(b) SEARCH OF MAIL NOT SEALED AGAINST 
INSPECTION AND OTHER MAIL.—Mail not sealed 
against inspection under the postal laws and 
regulations of the United States, mail which 
bears a Customs declaration, and mail with respect 
to which the sender or addressee has consented 
in writing to search, may be searched by 
a Customs officer. 

‘‘(c) SEARCH OF MAIL SEALED AGAINST INSPECTION 
WEIGHING IN EXCESS OF 16 OUNCES.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Mail weighing in excess of 
16 ounces sealed against inspection under the 
postal laws and regulations of the United States 
may be searched by a Customs officer, subject to 
paragraph (2), if there is reasonable cause to 
suspect that such mail contains one or more of 
the following: 

‘‘(A) Monetary instruments, as defined in section 
1956 of title 18, United States Code. 

‘‘(B) A weapon of mass destruction, as defined 
in section 2332a(b) of title 18, United States 
Code. 

‘‘(C) A drug or other substance listed in 
schedule I, II, III, or IV in section 202 of the 
Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812). 

‘‘(D) National defense and related information 
transmitted in violation of any of sections 793 
through 798 of title 18, United States Code. 

‘‘(E) Merchandise mailed in violation of section 
1715 or 1716 of title 18, United States Code. 

‘‘(F) Merchandise mailed in violation of any 
provision of chapter 71 (relating to obscenity) or 
chapter 110 (relating to sexual exploitation and 
other abuse of children) of title 18, United States 
Code. 

‘‘(G) Merchandise mailed in violation of the 
Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 
App. 2401 et seq.). 

‘‘(H) Merchandise mailed in violation of section 
38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2778). 

‘‘(I) Merchandise mailed in violation of the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
(50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.). 

‘‘(J) Merchandise mailed in violation of the 
Trading with the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. App. 1 
et seq.). 

‘‘(K) Merchandise subject to any other law 
enforced by the Customs Service. 

‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—No person acting under the 
authority of paragraph (1) shall read, or authorize 
any other person to read, any correspondence 
contained in mail sealed against inspection 
unless prior to so reading— 

‘‘(A) a search warrant has been issued pursuant 
to rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal 
Procedure; or 

‘‘(B) the sender or addressee has given written 
authorization for such reading. 

‘‘(d) SEARCH OF MAIL SEALED AGAINST INSPECTION 
WEIGHING 16 OUNCES OR LESS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of this section, 
subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to mail 
weighing 16 ounces or less sealed against inspection 
under the postal laws and regulations of 
the United States.’’. 

(b) CERTIFICATION BY SECRETARY.—Not later 
than 3 months after the date of enactment of 
this section, the Secretary of State shall determine 
whether the application of section 583 of 
the Tariff Act of 1930 to foreign mail transiting 
the United States that is imported or exported 
by the United States Postal Service is being handled 
in a manner consistent with international 
law and any international obligation of the 
United States. Section 583 of such Act shall not 
apply to such foreign mail unless the Secretary 
certifies to Congress that the application of such 
section 583 is consistent with international law 
and any international obligation of the United 
States. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph 
(2), this section and the amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the 
date of enactment of this Act. 
(2) CERTIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN 
MAIL.—The provisions of section 583 of the Tariff 
Act of 1930 relating to foreign mail transiting 
the United States that is imported or exported 
by the United States Postal Service shall not 
take effect until the Secretary of State certifies 
to Congress, pursuant to subsection (b), that the 
application of such section 583 is consistent with 
international law and any international obligation 
of the United States. 
SEC. 1144. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS 
FOR REESTABLISHMENT OF CUSTOMS 
OPERATIONS IN NEW YORK 
CITY. 

(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
for the reestablishment of operations 
of the Customs Service in New York, New York, 
such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 
2003. 
(2) OPERATIONS DESCRIBED.—The operations 
referred to in paragraph (1) include, but are not 
limited to, the following: 
(A) Operations relating to the Port Director of 
New York City, the New York Customs Management 
Center (including the Director of Field Operations), 
and the Special Agent-In-Charge for 
New York. 
(B) Commercial operations, including textile 
enforcement operations and salaries and expenses 
of— 
(i) trade specialists who determine the origin 
and value of merchandise; 
(ii) analysts who monitor the entry data into 
the United States of textiles and textile products; 
and 
(iii) Customs officials who work with foreign 
governments to examine textile makers and 
verify entry information. 
(b) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
under subsection (a) are authorized to remain 
available until expended. 
CHAPTER 5—TEXTILE TRANSSHIPMENT 
PROVISIONS 

SEC. 1151. GAO AUDIT OF TEXTILE TRANSSHIPMENT 
MONITORING BY CUSTOMS 
SERVICE. 

(a) GAO AUDIT.—The Comptroller General of 
the United States shall conduct an audit of the 
system established and carried out by the Customs 
Service to monitor textile transshipment. 
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 9 months after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General shall submit to the Committee on 
Ways and Means of the House of Representatives 
and Committee on Finance of the Senate a 
report that contains the results of the study 
conducted under subsection (a), including recommendations 
for improvements to the transshipment 
monitoring system if applicable. 
(c) TRANSSHIPMENT DESCRIBED.—Transshipment 
within the meaning of this section has 
occurred when preferential treatment under any 
provision of law has been claimed for a textile or 
apparel article on the basis of material false information 
concerning the country of origin, 
manufacture, processing, or assembly of the article 
or any of its components. For purposes of 
the preceding sentence, false information is material 
if disclosure of the true information would 
mean or would have meant that the article is or 
was ineligible for preferential treatment under 
the provision of law in question. 
SEC. 1152. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS 
FOR TEXTILE TRANSSHIPMENT ENFORCEMENT 
OPERATIONS. 

(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
for textile transshipment enforcement 
operations of the Customs Service $9,500,000 for 
fiscal year 2003. 
(2) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
under paragraph (1) are authorized to remain 
available until expended. 
(b) USE OF FUNDS.—Of the amount appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
under subsection (a), the following 
amounts are authorized to be made available for 
the following purposes: 
(1) IMPORT SPECIALISTS.—$1,463,000 for 21 
Customs import specialists to be assigned to selected 
ports for documentation review to support 
detentions and exclusions and 1 additional Customs 
import specialist assigned to the Customs 
headquarters textile program to administer the 
program and provide oversight. 

(2) INSPECTORS.—$652,080 for 10 Customs inspectors 
to be assigned to selected ports to examine 
targeted high-risk shipments. 
(3) INVESTIGATORS.—(A) $1,165,380 for 10 investigators 
to be assigned to selected ports to investigate 
instances of smuggling, quota and 
trade agreement circumvention, and use of 
counterfeit visas to enter inadmissible goods. 

S4914 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

(B) $149,603 for 1 investigator to be assigned to 
Customs headquarters textile program to coordinate 
and ensure implementation of textile production 
verification team results from an investigation 
perspective. 
(4) INTERNATIONAL TRADE SPECIALISTS.— 
$226,500 for 3 international trade specialists to 
be assigned to Customs headquarters to be dedicated 
to illegal textile transshipment policy 
issues and other free trade agreement enforcement 
issues. 
(5) PERMANENT IMPORT SPECIALISTS FOR HONG 
KONG.—$500,000 for 2 permanent import specialist 
positions and $500,000 for 2 investigators 
to be assigned to Hong Kong to work with Hong 
Kong and other government authorities in 
Southeast Asia to assist such authorities pursue 
proactive enforcement of bilateral trade agreements. 
(6) VARIOUS PERMANENT TRADE POSITIONS.— 
$3,500,000 for the following: 
(A) 2 permanent positions to be assigned to 
the Customs attache´ office in Central America to 
address trade enforcement issues for that region. 
(B) 2 permanent positions to be assigned to 
the Customs attache´ office in South Africa to 
address trade enforcement issues pursuant to 
the African Growth and Opportunity Act (title 
I of Public Law 106–200). 
(C) 4 permanent positions to be assigned to the 
Customs attache´ office in Mexico to address the 
threat of illegal textile transshipment through 
Mexico and other related issues under the North 
American Free Trade Agreement Act. 
(D) 2 permanent positions to be assigned to 
the Customs attache´ office in Seoul, South 
Korea, to address the trade issues in the geographic 
region. 
(E) 2 permanent positions to be assigned to the 
proposed Customs attache´ office in New Delhi, 
India, to address the threat of illegal textile 
transshipment and other trade enforcement 
issues. 
(F) 2 permanent positions to be assigned to the 
Customs attache´ office in Rome, Italy, to address 
trade enforcement issues in the geographic 
region, including issues under free trade agreements 
with Jordan and Israel. 
(7) ATTORNEYS.—$179,886 for 2 attorneys for 
the Office of the Chief Counsel of the Customs 
Service to pursue cases regarding illegal textile 
transshipment. 
(8) AUDITORS.—$510,000 for 6 Customs auditors 
to perform internal control reviews and document 
and record reviews of suspect importers. 
(9) ADDITIONAL TRAVEL FUNDS.—$250,000 for 
deployment of additional textile production 
verification teams to sub-Saharan Africa. 
(10) TRAINING.—(A) $75,000 for training of 
Customs personnel. 
(B) $200,000 for training for foreign counterparts 
in risk management analytical techniques 
and for teaching factory inspection techniques, 
model law Development, and enforcement techniques. 
(11) OUTREACH.—$60,000 for outreach efforts 
to United States importers. 
SEC. 1153. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AFRICAN 
GROWTH AND OPPORTUNITY ACT. 

Of the amount made available for fiscal year 
2003 under section 301(b)(2)(A) of the Customs 
Procedural Reform and Simplification Act of 
1978 (19 U.S.C. 2075(b)(2)(A)), as amended by 
section 1111(b)(1) of this title, $1,317,000 shall be 
available until expended for the Customs Service 
to provide technical assistance to help sub-Saharan 
Africa countries develop and implement 
effective visa and anti-transshipment systems as 
required by the African Growth and Opportunity 
Act (title I of Public Law 106–200), as follows: 


(1) TRAVEL FUNDS.—$600,000 for import specialists, 
special agents, and other qualified Customs 
personnel to travel to sub-Saharan Africa 
countries to provide technical assistance in developing 
and implementing effective visa and 
anti-transshipment systems. 
(2) IMPORT SPECIALISTS.—$266,000 for 4 import 
specialists to be assigned to Customs headquarters 
to be dedicated to providing technical 
assistance to sub-Saharan African countries for 
developing and implementing effective visa and 
anti-transshipment systems. 

(3) DATA RECONCILIATION ANALYSTS.—$151,000 
for 2 data reconciliation analysts to review apparel 
shipments. 
(4) SPECIAL AGENTS.—$300,000 for 2 special 
agents to be assigned to Customs headquarters 
to be available to provide technical assistance to 
sub-Saharan African countries in the performance 
of investigations and other enforcement 
initiatives. 
Subtitle B—Office of the United States Trade 
Representative 
SEC. 1161. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 141(g)(1) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2171(g)(1)) is 
amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (A)— 
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
striking ‘‘not to exceed’’; 
(B) in clause (i) to read as follows: 
‘‘(i) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2003.’’; and 
(C) in clause (ii) to read as follows: 
‘‘(ii) $31,000,000 for fiscal year 2004.’’; and 
(2) in subparagraph (B)— 
(A) in clause (i), by adding ‘‘and’’ at the end; 
(B) by striking clause (ii); and 
(C) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (ii). 
(b) SUBMISSION OF OUT-YEAR BUDGET PROJECTIONS.—
Section 141(g) of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2171(g)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(3) By not later than the date on which the 
President submits to Congress the budget of the 
United States Government for a fiscal year, the 
United States Trade Representative shall submit 
to the Committee on Ways and Means of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Finance of the Senate the projected amount of 
funds for the succeeding fiscal year that will be 
necessary for the Office to carry out its functions.’’. 


(c) ADDITIONAL STAFF FOR OFFICE OF ASSISTANT 
U.S. TRADE REPRESENTATIVE FOR CONGRESSIONAL 
AFFAIRS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
such sums as may be necessary for 
fiscal year 2003 for the salaries and expenses of 
two additional legislative specialist employee positions 
within the Office of the Assistant United 
States Trade Representative for Congressional 
Affairs. 
(2) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations 
under paragraph (1) are authorized to remain 
available until expended. 
Subtitle C—United States International Trade 
Commission 
SEC. 1171. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 330(e)(2)(A) of the 
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1330(e)(2)) is 
amended— 
(1) in clause (i) to read as follows: 
‘‘(i) $51,400,000 for fiscal year 2003.’’; and 
(2) in clause (ii) to read as follows: 
‘‘(ii) $53,400,000 for fiscal year 2004.’’. 
(b) SUBMISSION OF OUT-YEAR BUDGET PROJECTIONS.—
Section 330(e) of the Tariff Act of 1930 
(19 U.S.C. 1330(e)(2)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘(4) By not later than the date on which the 
President submits to Congress the budget of the 
United States Government for a fiscal year, the 
Commission shall submit to the Committee on 
Ways and Means of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Finance of the Senate 
the projected amount of funds for the succeeding 
fiscal year that will be necessary for the 
Commission to carry out its functions.’’. 

Subtitle D—Other Trade Provisions 

SEC. 1181. INCREASE IN AGGREGATE VALUE OF 
ARTICLES EXEMPT FROM DUTY ACQUIRED 
ABROAD BY UNITED STATES 
RESIDENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subheading 9804.00.65 of the 
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United 
States is amended in the article description column 
by striking ‘‘$400’’ and inserting ‘‘$800’’. 

(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall take effect 90 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 1182. REGULATORY AUDIT PROCEDURES. 

Section 509(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 

U.S.C. 1509(b)) is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(6)(A) If during the course of any audit concluded 
under this subsection, the Customs Service 
identifies overpayments of duties or fees or 
over-declarations of quantities or values that 
are within the time period and scope of the 
audit that the Customs Service has defined, 
then in calculating the loss of revenue or monetary 
penalties under section 592, the Customs 
Service shall treat the overpayments or over-declarations 
on finally liquidated entries as an offset 
to any underpayments or underdeclarations 
also identified on finally liquidated entries if 
such overpayments or over-declarations were 
not made by the person being audited for the 
purpose of violating any provision of law. 

‘‘(B) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed 
to authorize a refund not otherwise authorized 
under section 520.’’. 

Subtitle E—Sense of Senate 
SEC. 1191. SENSE OF SENATE. 

It is the sense of the Senate that fees collected 
for certain customs services (commonly referred 
to as ‘‘customs user fees’’) provided for in section 
13031 of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c) may be 
used only for the operations and programs of 
the United States Customs Service. 

DIVISION B—BIPARTISAN TRADE 

PROMOTION AUTHORITY 

TITLE XXI—TRADE PROMOTION 

AUTHORITY 
SEC. 2101. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This title may be cited as 
the ‘‘Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority Act 
of 2002’’. 
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the following 
findings: 
(1) The expansion of international trade is 
vital to the national security of the United 
States. Trade is critical to the economic growth 
and strength of the United States and to its 
leadership in the world. Stable trading relationships 
promote security and prosperity. Trade 
agreements today serve the same purposes that 
security pacts played during the Cold War, 
binding nations together through a series of mutual 
rights and obligations. Leadership by the 
United States in international trade fosters open 
markets, democracy, and peace throughout the 
world. 
(2) The national security of the United States 
depends on its economic security, which in turn 
is founded upon a vibrant and growing industrial 
base. Trade expansion has been the engine 
of economic growth. Trade agreements maximize 
opportunities for the critical sectors and building 
blocks of the economy of the United States, 
such as information technology, telecommunications 
and other leading technologies, basic industries, 
capital equipment, medical equipment, 
services, agriculture, environmental technology, 
and intellectual property. Trade will create new 
opportunities for the United States and preserve 
the unparalleled strength of the United States 
in economic, political, and military affairs. The 
United States, secured by expanding trade and 
economic opportunities, will meet the challenges 
of the twenty-first century. 
(3) Support for continued trade expansion requires 
that dispute settlement procedures under 
international trade agreements not add to or diminish 
the rights and obligations provided in 
such agreements. Nevertheless, in several cases, 
dispute settlement panels and the WTO Appellate 
Body have added to obligations and diminished 
rights of the United States under WTO 
Agreements. In particular, dispute settlement 
panels and the Appellate Body have— 

June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4915 

(A) given insufficient deference to the expertise 
and fact-finding of the Department of Commerce 
and the United States International 
Trade Commission; 
(B) imposed an obligation concerning the 
causal relationship between increased imports 
into the United States and serious injury to domestic 
industry necessary to support a safeguard 
measure that is different from the obligation 
set forth in the applicable WTO Agreements; 
(C) imposed an obligation concerning the exclusion 
from safeguards measures of products 
imported from countries party to a free trade 
agreement that is different from the obligation 
set forth in the applicable WTO Agreements; 
(D) imposed obligations on the Department of 
Commerce with respect to the use of facts available 
in antidumping investigations that are different 
from the obligations set forth in the applicable 
WTO Agreements; and 
(E) accorded insufficient deference to the Department 
of Commerce’s methodology for adjusting 
countervailing duties following the privatization 
of a subsidized foreign producer. 
SEC. 2102. TRADE NEGOTIATING OBJECTIVES. 

(a) OVERALL TRADE NEGOTIATING OBJECTIVES.—
The overall trade negotiating objectives 
of the United States for agreements subject to 
the provisions of section 2103 are— 
(1) to obtain more open, equitable, and reciprocal 
market access; 
(2) to obtain the reduction or elimination of 
barriers and distortions that are directly related 
to trade and that decrease market opportunities 
for United States exports or otherwise distort 
United States trade; 
(3) to further strengthen the system of international 
trading disciplines and procedures, including 
dispute settlement; 
(4) to foster economic growth, raise living 
standards, and promote full employment in the 
United States and to enhance the global economy; 
(5) to ensure that trade and environmental 
policies are mutually supportive and to seek to 
protect and preserve the environment and enhance 
the international means of doing so, 
while optimizing the use of the world’s resources; 
(6) to promote respect for worker rights and 
the rights of children consistent with core labor 
standards of the International Labor Organization 
(as defined in section 2113(2)) and an understanding 
of the relationship between trade 
and worker rights; 
(7) to seek provisions in trade agreements 
under which parties to those agreements strive 
to ensure that they do not weaken or reduce the 
protections afforded in domestic environmental 
and labor laws as an encouragement fortrade; 
and 
(8) to ensure that trade agreements afford 
small businesses equal access to international 
markets, equitable trade benefits, expanded export 
market opportunities, and provide for the 
reduction or elimination of trade barriers that 
disproportionately impact small business. 
(b) PRINCIPAL TRADE NEGOTIATING OBJECTIVES.— 
(1) TRADE BARRIERS AND DISTORTIONS.—The 
principal negotiating objectives of the United 
States regarding trade barriers and other trade 
distortions are— 
(A) to expand competitive market opportunities 
for United States exports including motor 
vehicles and vehicle parts and to obtain fairer 
and more open conditions of trade by reducing 
or eliminating tariff and nontariff barriers and 
policies and practices of foreign governments directly 
related to trade that decrease market opportunities 
for United States exports or otherwise 
distort United States trade; and 
(B) to obtain reciprocal tariff and nontariff 
barrier elimination agreements, with particular 
attention to those tariff categories covered in 
section 111(b) of the Uruguay Round Agreements 
Act (19 U.S.C. 3521(b)). 
(2) TRADE IN SERVICES.—The principal negotiating 
objective of the United States regarding 
trade in services is to reduce or eliminate barriers 
to international trade in services, including 
regulatory and other barriers that deny national 
treatment and market access or unreasonably 
restrict the establishment or operations of 
service suppliers. 
(3) FOREIGN INVESTMENT.—Recognizing that 
United States law on the whole provides a high 
level of protection for investment, consistent 
with or greater than the level required by international 
law, the principal negotiating objectives 
of the United States regarding foreign investment 
are to reduce or eliminate artificial or 
trade-distorting barriers to trade-related foreign 
investment, while ensuring that foreign investors 
in the United States are not accorded greater 
rights than United States investors in the 
United States, and to secure for investors important 
rights comparable to those that would be 
available under United States legal principles 
and practice, by— 
(A) reducing or eliminating exceptions to the 
principle of national treatment; 
(B) freeing the transfer of funds relating to 
investments; 
(C) reducing or eliminating performance requirements, 
forced technology transfers, and 
other unreasonable barriers to the establishment 
and operation of investments; 
(D) seeking to establish standards for expropriation 
and compensation for expropriation, 
consistent with United States legal principles 
and practice; 
(E) seeking to establish standards for fair and 
equitable treatment consistent with United 
States legal principles and practice, including 
the principle of due process; 
(F) providing meaningful procedures for resolving 
investment disputes; 
(G) seeking to improve mechanisms used to resolve 
disputes between an investor and a government 
through— 
(i) mechanisms to eliminate frivolous claims 
and to deter the filing of frivolous claims; 
(ii) procedures to ensure the efficient selection 
of arbitrators and the expeditious disposition of 
claims; 
(iii) procedures to enhance opportunities for 
public input into the formulation of government 
positions; and 
(iv) establishment of a single appellate body to 
review decisions in investor-to-government disputes 
and thereby provide coherence to the interpretations 
of investment provisions in trade 
agreements; and 
(H) ensuring the fullest measure of transparency 
in the dispute settlement mechanism, to 
the extent consistent with the need to protect information 
that is classified or business confidential, 
by— 
(i) ensuring that all requests for dispute settlement 
are promptly made public; 
(ii) ensuring that— 
(I) all proceedings, submissions, findings, and 
decisions are promptly made public; 
(II) all hearings are open to the public; and 
(iii) establishing a mechanism for acceptance 
of amicus curiae submissions from businesses, 
unions, and nongovernmental organizations. 
(4) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.—The principal 
negotiating objectives of the United States regarding 
trade-related intellectual property are— 
(A) to further promote adequate and effective 
protection of intellectual property rights, including 
through— 
(i)(I) ensuring accelerated and full implementation 
of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects 
of Intellectual Property Rights referred to 
in section 101(d)(15) of the Uruguay Round 
Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3511(d)(15)), particularly 
with respect to meeting enforcement obligations 
under that agreement; and 

(II) ensuring that the provisions of any multilateral 
or bilateral trade agreement governing 
intellectual property rights that is entered into 
by the United States reflect a standard of protection 
similar to that found in United States 
law; 

(ii) providing strong protection for new and 
emerging technologies and new methods of 
transmitting and distributing products embodying 
intellectual property; 
(iii) preventing or eliminating discrimination 
with respect to matters affecting the availability, 
acquisition, scope, maintenance, use, 
and enforcement of intellectual property rights; 
(iv) ensuring that standards of protection and 
enforcement keep pace with technological developments, 
and in particular ensuring that 
rightholders have the legal and technological 
means to control the use of their works through 
the Internet and other global communication 
media, and to prevent the unauthorized use of 
their works; and 
(v) providing strong enforcement of intellectual 
property rights, including through accessible, 
expeditious, and effective civil, administrative, 
and criminal enforcement mechanisms; 
(B) to secure fair, equitable, and nondiscriminatory 
market access opportunities for United 
States persons that rely upon intellectual property 
protection; and 
(C) to respect the Declaration on the TRIPS 
Agreement and Public Health, adopted by the 
World Trade Organization at the Fourth Ministerial 
Conference at Doha, Qatar on November 
14, 2001. 
(5) TRANSPARENCY.—The principal negotiating 
objective of the United States with respect to 
transparency is to obtain wider and broader application 
of the principle of transparency 
through— 
(A) increased and more timely public access to 
information regarding trade issues and the activities 
of international trade institutions; 
(B) increased openness at the WTO and other 
international trade fora by increasing public access 
to appropriate meetings, proceedings, and 
submissions, including with regard to dispute 
settlement and investment; and 
(C) increased and more timely public access to 
all notifications and supporting documentation 
submitted by parties to the WTO. 
(6) ANTI-CORRUPTION.—The principal negotiating 
objectives of the United States with respect 
to the use of money or other things of 
value to influence acts, decisions, or omissions 
of foreign governments or officials or to secure 
any improper advantage in a manner affecting 
trade are— 
(A) to obtain high standards and appropriate 
domestic enforcement mechanisms applicable to 
persons from all countries participating in the 
applicable trade agreement that prohibit such 
attempts to influence acts, decisions, or omissions 
of foreign governments; and 
(B) to ensure that such standards do not place 
United States persons at a competitive disadvantage 
in international trade. 
(7) IMPROVEMENT OF THE WTO AND MULTILATERAL 
TRADE AGREEMENTS.—The principal negotiating 
objectives of the United States regarding 
the improvement of the World Trade Organization, 
the Uruguay Round Agreements, and other 
multilateral and bilateral trade agreements 
are— 
(A) to achieve full implementation and extend 
the coverage of the World Trade Organization 
and such agreements to products, sectors, and 
conditions of trade not adequately covered; and 
(B) to expand country participation in and 
enhancement of the Information Technology 
Agreement and other trade agreements. 
(8) REGULATORY PRACTICES.—The principal 
negotiating objectives of the United States regarding 
the use of government regulation or 
other practices by foreign governments to provide 
a competitive advantage to their domestic 
producers, service providers, or investors and 
thereby reduce market access for United States 
goods, services, and investments are— 
(A) to achieve increased transparency and opportunity 
for the participation of affected parties 
in the development of regulations; 

S4916 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

(B) to require that proposed regulations be 
based on sound science, cost-benefit analysis, 
risk assessment, or other objective evidence; 
(C) to establish consultative mechanisms 
among parties to trade agreements to promote 
increased transparency in developing guidelines, 
rules, regulations, and laws for government 
procurement and other regulatory regimes; 
and 
(D) to achieve the elimination of government 
measures such as price controls and reference 
pricing which deny full market access for 
United States products. 
(9) ELECTRONIC COMMERCE.—The principal 
negotiating objectives of the United States with 
respect to electronic commerce are— 
(A) to ensure that current obligations, rules, 
disciplines, and commitments under the World 
Trade Organization apply to electronic commerce; 
(B) to ensure that— 
(i) electronically delivered goods and services 
receive no less favorable treatment under trade 
rules and commitments than like products delivered 
in physical form; and 
(ii) the classification of such goods and services 
ensures the most liberal trade treatment 
possible; 
(C) to ensure that governments refrain from 
implementing trade-related measures that impede 
electronic commerce; 
(D) where legitimate policy objectives require 
domestic regulations that affect electronic commerce, 
to obtain commitments that any such regulations 
are the least restrictive on trade, nondiscriminatory, 
and transparent, and promote 
an open market environment; and 
(E) to extend the moratorium of the World 
Trade Organization on duties on electronic 
transmissions. 
(10) RECIPROCAL TRADE IN AGRICULTURE.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The principal negotiating 
objective of the United States with respect to agriculture 
is to obtain competitive opportunities 
for United States exports of agricultural commodities 
in foreign markets substantially equivalent 
to the competitive opportunities afforded 
foreign exports in United States markets and to 
achieve fairer and more open conditions of trade 
in bulk, specialty crop, and value-added commodities 
by— 
(i) reducing or eliminating, by a date certain, 
tariffs or other charges that decrease market opportunities 
for United States exports— 
(I) giving priority to those products that are 
subject to significantly higher tariffs or subsidy 
regimes of major producing countries; and 
(II) providing reasonable adjustment periods 
for United States import-sensitive products, in 
close consultation with the Congress on such 
products before initiating tariff reduction negotiations; 
(ii) reducing tariffs to levels that are the same 
as or lower than those in the United States; 
(iii) seeking to eliminate all export subsidies 
on agricultural commodities while maintaining 
bona fide food aid and preserving United States 
agricultural market development and export 
credit programs that allow the United States to 
compete with other foreign export promotion efforts; 
(iv) allowing the preservation of programs 
that support family farms and rural communities 
but do not distort trade; 
(v) developing disciplines for domestic support 
programs, so that production that is in excess of 
domestic food security needs is sold at world 
prices; 
(vi) eliminating Government policies that create 
price-depressing surpluses; 
(vii) eliminating state trading enterprises 
whenever possible; 
(viii) developing, strengthening, and clarifying 
rules and effective dispute settlement 
mechanisms to eliminate practices that unfairly 
decrease United States market access opportunities 
or distort agricultural markets to the detriment 
of the United States, particularly with 
respect to import-sensitive products, including— 
(I) unfair or trade-distorting activities of state 
trading enterprises and other administrative 
mechanisms, with emphasis on requiring price 
transparency in the operation of state trading 
enterprises and such other mechanisms in order 
to end cross subsidization, price discrimination, 
and price undercutting; 
(II) unjustified trade restrictions or commercial 
requirements, such as labeling, that affect 
new technologies, including biotechnology; 
(III) unjustified sanitary or phytosanitary restrictions, 
including those not based on scientific 
principles in contravention of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements; 
(IV) other unjustified technical barriers to 
trade; and 
(V) restrictive rules in the administration of 
tariff rate quotas; 
(ix) eliminating practices that adversely affect 
trade in perishable or cyclical products, while 
improving import relief mechanisms to recognize 
the unique characteristics of perishable and cyclical 
agriculture; 
(x) ensuring that the use of import relief 
mechanisms for perishable and cyclical agriculture 
are as accessible and timely to growers 
in the United States as those mechanisms that 
are used by other countries; 
(xi) taking into account whether a party to 
the negotiations has failed to adhere to the provisions 
of already existing trade agreements 
with the United States or has circumvented obligations 
under those agreements; 
(xii) taking into account whether a product is 
subject to market distortions by reason of a failure 
of a major producing country to adhere to 
the provisions of already existing trade agreements 
with the United States or by the circumvention 
by that country of its obligations 
under those agreements; 
(xiii) otherwise ensuring that countries that 
accede to the World Trade Organization have 
made meaningful market liberalization commitments 
in agriculture; 
(xiv) taking into account the impact that 
agreements covering agriculture to which the 
United States is a party, including the North 
American Free Trade Agreement, have on the 
United States agricultural industry; 
(xv) maintaining bona fide food assistance 
programs and preserving United States market 
development and export credit programs; and 
(xvi) strive to complete a general multilateral 
round in the World Trade Organization by January 
1, 2005, and seek the broadest market access 
possible in multilateral, regional, and bilateral 
negotiations, recognizing the effect that simultaneous 
sets of negotiations may have on 
United States import-sensitive commodities (including 
those subject to tariff-rate quotas). 
(B) CONSULTATION.— 
(i) BEFORE COMMENCING NEGOTIATIONS.—Before 
commencing negotiations with respect to 
agriculture, the United States Trade Representative, 
in consultation with the Congress, shall 
seek to develop a position on the treatment of 
seasonal and perishable agricultural products to 
be employed in the negotiations in order to develop 
an international consensus on the treatment 
of seasonal or perishable agricultural 
products in investigations relating to dumping 
and safeguards and in any other relevant area. 
(ii) DURING NEGOTIATIONS.—During any negotiations 
on agricultural subsidies, the United 
States Trade Representative shall seek to establish 
the common base year for calculating the 
Aggregated Measurement of Support (as defined 
in the Agreement on Agriculture) as the end of 
each country’s Uruguay Round implementation 
period, as reported in each country’s Uruguay 
Round market access schedule. 
(iii) SCOPE OF OBJECTIVE.—The negotiating 
objective provided in subparagraph (A) applies 
with respect to agricultural matters to be addressed 
in any trade agreement entered into 
under section 2103 (a) or (b), including any 
trade agreement entered into under section 2103 
(a) or (b) that provides for accession to a trade 
agreement to which the United States is already 
a party, such as the North American Free Trade 
Agreement and the United States-Canada Free 
Trade Agreement. 

(11) LABOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT.—The principal 
negotiating objectives of the United States 
with respect to labor and the environment are— 
(A) to ensure that a party to a trade agreement 
with the United States does not fail to effectively 
enforce its environmental or labor 
laws, through a sustained or recurring course of 
action or inaction, in a manner affecting trade 
between the United States and that party after 
entry into force of a trade agreement between 
those countries; 
(B) to recognize that parties to a trade agreement 
retain the right to exercise discretion with 
respect to investigatory, prosecutorial, regulatory, 
and compliance matters and to make decisions 
regarding the allocation of resources to 
enforcement with respect to other labor or environmental 
matters determined to have higher 
priorities, and to recognize that a country is effectively 
enforcing its laws if a course of action 
or inaction reflects a reasonable exercise of such 
discretion, or results from a bona fide decision 
regarding the allocation of resources and no retaliation 
may be authorized based on the exercise 
of these rights or the right to establish domestic 
labor standards and levels of environmental 
protection; 
(C) to strengthen the capacity of United 
States trading partners to promote respect for 
core labor standards (as defined in section 
2113(2)); 
(D) to strengthen the capacity of United 
States trading partners to protect the environment 
through the promotion of sustainable development; 
(E) to reduce or eliminate government practices 
or policies that unduly threaten sustainable 
development; 
(F) to seek market access, through the elimination 
of tariffs and nontariff barriers, for 
United States environmental technologies, 
goods, and services; and 
(G) to ensure that labor, environmental, 
health, or safety policies and practices of the 
parties to trade agreements with the United 
States do not arbitrarily or unjustifiably discriminate 
against United States exports or serve 
as disguised barriers to trade. 
(12) HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRACY.—The 
principal negotiating objective regarding human 
rights and democracy is to obtain provisions in 
trade agreements that require parties to those 
agreements to strive to protect internationally 
recognized civil, political, and human rights. 
(13) DISPUTE SETTLEMENT AND ENFORCEMENT.—
The principal negotiating objectives of 
the United States with respect to dispute settlement 
and enforcement of trade agreements are— 
(A) to seek provisions in trade agreements providing 
for resolution of disputes between governments 
under those trade agreements in an effective, 
timely, transparent, equitable, and reasoned 
manner, requiring determinations based 
on facts and the principles of the agreements, 
with the goal of increasing compliance with the 
agreements; 
(B) to seek to strengthen the capacity of the 
Trade Policy Review Mechanism of the World 
Trade Organization to review compliance with 
commitments; 
(C) to seek improved adherence by panels convened 
under the WTO Understanding on Rules 
and Procedures Governing the Settlement of 
Disputes and by the WTO Appellate Body to the 
standard of review applicable under the WTO 
Agreement involved in the dispute, including 
greater deference, where appropriate, to the fact 
finding and technical expertise of national investigating 
authorities; 
(D) to seek provisions encouraging the early 
identification and settlement of disputes 
through consultation; 
(E) to seek provisions to encourage the provision 
of trade-expanding compensation if a party 

June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4917 

to a dispute under the agreement does not come 
into compliance with its obligations under the 
agreement; 

(F) to seek provisions to impose a penalty 
upon a party to a dispute under the agreement 
that— 
(i) encourages compliance with the obligations 
of the agreement; 
(ii) is appropriate to the parties, nature, subject 
matter, and scope of the violation; and 
(iii) has the aim of not adversely affecting 
parties or interests not party to the dispute 
while maintaining the effectiveness of the enforcement 
mechanism; and 
(G) to seek provisions that treat United States 
principal negotiating objectives equally with respect 
to— 
(i) the ability to resort to dispute settlement 
under the applicable agreement; 
(ii) the availability of equivalent dispute settlement 
procedures; and 
(iii) the availability of equivalent remedies. 
(14) BORDER TAXES.—The principal negotiating 
objective of the United States regarding 
border taxes is to obtain a revision of the WTO 
rules with respect to the treatment of border adjustments 
for internal taxes to redress the disadvantage 
to countries relying primarily on direct 
taxes for revenue rather than indirect taxes. 
(15) WTO EXTENDED NEGOTIATIONS.—The 
principal negotiating objectives of the United 
States regarding trade in civil aircraft are those 
set forth in section 135(c) of the Uruguay Round 
Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3355(c)) and regarding 
rules of origin are the conclusion of an 
agreement described in section 132 of that Act 
(19 U.S.C. 3552). 
(16) TEXTILE NEGOTIATIONS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The principal negotiating 
objectives of the United States with respect to 
trade in textiles and apparel articles is to obtain 
competitive opportunities for United States exports 
of textiles and apparel in foreign markets 
substantially equivalent to the competitive opportunities 
afforded foreign exports in United 
States markets and to achieve fairer and more 
open conditions of trade in textiles and apparel 
by— 
(i) reducing to levels that are the same as, or 
lower than, those in the United States, or eliminating, 
by a date certain, tariffs or other 
charges that decrease market opportunities for 
United States exports of textiles and apparel; 
(ii) eliminating by a date certain non-tariff 
barriers that decrease market opportunities for 
United States textile and apparel articles; 
(iii) reducing or eliminating subsidies that decrease 
market opportunities for United States 
exports or unfairly distort textile and apparel 
markets to the detriment of the United States; 
(iv) developing, strengthening, and clarifying 
rules to eliminate practices that unfairly decrease 
United States market access opportunities 
or distort textile and apparel markets to the detriment 
of the United States; 
(v) taking into account whether a party to the 
negotiations has failed to adhere to the provisions 
of already existing trade agreements with 
the United States or has circumvented obligations 
under those agreements; 
(vi) taking into account whether a product is 
subject to market distortions by reason of a failure 
of a major producing country to adhere to 
the provisions of already existing trade agreements 
with the United States or by the circumvention 
by that country of its obligations 
under those agreements; 
(vii) otherwise ensuring that countries that 
accede to the World Trade Organization have 
made meaningful market liberalization commitments 
in textiles and apparel; and 
(viii) taking into account the impact that 
agreements covering textiles and apparel trade 
to which the United States is already a party 
are having on the United States textile and apparel 
industry. 
(B) SCOPE OF OBJECTIVE.—The negotiating objectives 
set forth in subparagraph (A) apply 
with respect to trade in textile and apparel articles 
to be addressed in any trade agreement entered 
into under section 2103 (a) or (b), including 
any trade agreement entered under section 
2103 (a) or (b) that provides for accession to a 
trade agreement to which the United States is 
already a party. 

(17) WORST FORMS OF CHILD LABOR.—The 
principal negotiating objectives of the United 
States regarding the trade-related aspects of the 
worst forms of child labor are— 
(A) to prevent distortions in the conduct of 
international trade caused by the use of the 
worst forms of child labor, in whole or in part, 
in the production of goods for export in international 
commerce; and 
(B) to redress unfair and illegitimate competition 
based upon the use of the worst forms of 
child labor, in whole or in part, in the production 
of goods for export in international commerce, 
including through— 
(i) promoting universal ratification and full 
compliance by all trading nations with ILO 
Convention No. 182 Concerning the Prohibition 
and Immediate Action for the Elimination of the 
Worst Forms of Child Labor, particularly with 
respect to meeting enforcement obligations 
under that Convention and related international 
agreements; 
(ii) pursuing action under Article XX of 
GATT 1994 to allow WTO members to restrict imports 
of goods found to be produced with the 
worst forms of child labor; 
(iii) seeking commitments by parties to any 
multilateral or bilateral trade agreement that is 
entered into by the United States to ensure that 
national laws reflect international standards regarding 
prevention of the use of the worst forms 
of child labor, especially in the conduct of international 
trade; and 
(iv) seeking commitments by trade agreement 
parties to vigorously enforce laws prohibiting 
the use of the worst forms of child labor, especially 
in the conduct of international trade, 
through accessible, expeditious, and effective 
civil, administrative, and criminal enforcement 
mechanisms. 
(c) PROMOTION OF CERTAIN PRIORITIES.—In 
order to address and maintain United States 
competitiveness in the global economy, the 
President shall— 
(1) seek greater cooperation between the WTO 
and the ILO; 
(2) seek to establish consultative mechanisms 
among parties to trade agreements to strengthen 
the capacity of United States trading partners 
to promote respect for core labor standards (as 
defined in section 2113(2)), and report to the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Finance 
of the Senate on the content and operation of 
such mechanisms; 
(3) seek to establish consultative mechanisms 
among parties to trade agreements to strengthen 
the capacity of United States trading partners 
to develop and implement standards for the protection 
of the environment and human health 
based on sound science, and report to the Committee 
on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Finance of 
the Senate on the content and operation of such 
mechanisms; 
(4) conduct environmental reviews of future 
trade and investment agreements, consistent 
with Executive Order 13141 of November 16, 1999 
and the relevant guidelines, and report to the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Finance 
of the Senate on such reviews; 
(5) review the impact of future trade agreements 
on United States employment, modeled 
after Executive Order 13141, taking into account 
the impact on job security, the level of compensation 
of new jobs and existing jobs, the displacement 
of employment, and the regional distribution 
of employment, utilizing experience 
from previous trade agreements and alternative 
models of employment analysis, report to the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Finance 
of the Senate on such review, and make that report 
available to the public; 

(6) take into account other legitimate United 
States domestic objectives including, but not limited 
to, the protection of legitimate health or 
safety, essential security, and consumer interests 
and the law and regulations related thereto; 
(7) have the Secretary of Labor consult with 
any country seeking a trade agreement with the 
United States concerning that country’s labor 
laws and provide technical assistance to that 
country if needed; 
(8) in connection with any trade negotiations 
entered into under this Act, the President shall 
submit to the Committee on Ways and Means of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Finance of the Senate a meaningful labor 
rights report of the country, or countries, with 
respect to which the President is negotiating, on 
a time frame determined in accordance with section 
2107(b)(2)(E); 
(9)(A) preserve the ability of the United States 
to enforce rigorously its trade laws, including 
the antidumping, countervailing duty, and safeguard 
laws, and avoid agreements that lessen 
the effectiveness of domestic and international 
disciplines on unfair trade, especially dumping 
and subsidies, or that lessen the effectiveness of 
domestic and international safeguard provisions, 
in order to ensure that United States 
workers, agricultural producers, and firms can 
compete fully on fair terms and enjoy the benefits 
of reciprocal trade concessions; and 

(B) address and remedy market distortions 
that lead to dumping and subsidization, including 
overcapacity, cartelization, and market-access 
barriers. 
(10) continue to promote consideration of multilateral 
environmental agreements and consult 
with parties to such agreements regarding the 
consistency of any such agreement that includes 
trade measures with existing environmental exceptions 
under Article XX of the GATT 1994; 
(11) report to the Committee on Ways and 
Means of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Finance of the Senate, not later 
than 12 months after the imposition of a penalty 
or remedy by the United States permitted by a 
trade agreement to which this title applies, on 
the effectiveness of the penalty or remedy applied 
under United States law in enforcing 
United States rights under the trade agreement; 
and 
(12) seek to establish consultative mechanisms 
among parties to trade agreements to examine 
the trade consequences of significant and unanticipated 
currency movements and to scrutinize 
whether a foreign government engaged in a pattern 
of manipulating its currency to promote a 
competitive advantage in international trade. 
The report required under paragraph (11) shall 
address whether the penalty or remedy was effective 
in changing the behavior of the targeted 
party and whether the penalty or remedy had 
any adverse impact on parties or interests not 
party to the dispute. 
(d) CONSULTATIONS.— 
(1) CONSULTATIONS WITH CONGRESSIONAL AD-
VISERS.—In the course of negotiations conducted 
under this title, the United States Trade Representative 
shall consult closely and on a timely 
basis with, and keep fully apprised of the negotiations, 
the Congressional Oversight Group 
convened under section 2107 and all committees 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
with jurisdiction over laws that would be affected 
by a trade agreement resulting from the 
negotiations. 
(2) CONSULTATION BEFORE AGREEMENT INI-
TIALED.—In the course of negotiations conducted 
under this title, the United States Trade 
Representative shall— 
(A) consult closely and on a timely basis (including 
immediately before initialing an agreement) 
with, and keep fully apprised of the negotiations, 
the congressional advisers for trade 

S4918 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

policy and negotiations appointed under section 
161 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2211), the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Finance of 
the Senate, and the Congressional Oversight 
Group convened under section 2107; and 

(B) with regard to any negotiations and 
agreement relating to agricultural trade, also 
consult closely and on a timely basis (including 
immediately before initialing an agreement) 
with, and keep fully apprised of the negotiations, 
the Committee on Agriculture of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate. 
(e) ADHERENCE TO OBLIGATIONS UNDER URUGUAY 
ROUND AGREEMENTS.—In determining 
whether to enter into negotiations with a particular 
country, the President shall take into account 
the extent to which that country has implemented, 
or has accelerated the implementation 
of, its obligations under the Uruguay 
Round Agreements. 
SEC. 2103. TRADE AGREEMENTS AUTHORITY. 

(a) AGREEMENTS REGARDING TARIFF BARRIERS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Whenever the President determines 
that one or more existing duties or 
other import restrictions of any foreign country 
or the United States are unduly burdening and 
restricting the foreign trade of the United States 
and that the purposes, policies, priorities, and 
objectives of this title will be promoted thereby, 
the President— 
(A) may enter into trade agreements with foreign 
countries before— 
(i) June 1, 2005; or 

(ii) June 1, 2007, if trade authorities procedures 
are extended under subsection (c); and 
(B) may, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), 
proclaim— 
(i) such modification or continuance of any 
existing duty, 
(ii) such continuance of existing duty-free or 
excise treatment, or 
(iii) such additional duties, 
as the President determines to be required or appropriate 
to carry out any such trade agreement. 
The President shall notify the Congress of the 
President’s intention to enter into an agreement 
under this subsection. 
(2) LIMITATIONS.—No proclamation may be 
made under paragraph (1) that— 
(A) reduces any rate of duty (other than a 
rate of duty that does not exceed 5 percent ad 
valorem on the date of the enactment of this 
Act) to a rate of duty which is less than 50 percent 
of the rate of such duty that applies on 
such date of enactment; 
(B) reduces the rate of duty below that applicable 
under the Uruguay Round Agreements, on 
any import sensitive agricultural product; or 
(C) increases any rate of duty above the rate 
that applied on the date of the enactment of this 
Act. 
(3) AGGREGATE REDUCTION; EXEMPTION FROM 
STAGING.— 
(A) AGGREGATE REDUCTION.—Except as provided 
in subparagraph (B), the aggregate reduction 
in the rate of duty on any article which is 
in effect on any day pursuant to a trade agreement 
entered into under paragraph (1) shall not 
exceed the aggregate reduction which would 
have been in effect on such day if— 
(i) a reduction of 3 percent ad valorem or a reduction 
of one-tenth of the total reduction, 
whichever is greater, had taken effect on the effective 
date of the first reduction proclaimed 
under paragraph (1) to carry out such agreement 
with respect to such article; and 
(ii) a reduction equal to the amount applicable 
under clause (i) had taken effect at 1-year 
intervals after the effective date of such first reduction. 
(B) EXEMPTION FROM STAGING.—No staging is 
required under subparagraph (A) with respect to 
a duty reduction that is proclaimed under paragraph 
(1) for an article of a kind that is not produced 
in the United States. The United States 
International Trade Commission shall advise the 
President of the identity of articles that may be 
exempted from staging under this subparagraph. 

(4) ROUNDING.—If the President determines 
that such action will simplify the computation 
of reductions under paragraph (3), the President 
may round an annual reduction by an amount 
equal to the lesser of— 
(A) the difference between the reduction without 
regard to this paragraph and the next lower 
whole number; or 
(B) one-half of 1 percent ad valorem. 
(5) OTHER LIMITATIONS.—A rate of duty reduction 
that may not be proclaimed by reason of 
paragraph (2) may take effect only if a provision 
authorizing such reduction is included 
within an implementing bill provided for under 
section 2105 and that bill is enacted into law. 
(6) OTHER TARIFF MODIFICATIONS.—Notwithstanding 
paragraphs (1)(B), (2)(A), (2)(C), and 
(3) through (5), and subject to the consultation 
and layover requirements of section 115 of the 
Uruguay Round Agreements Act, the President 
may proclaim the modification of any duty or 
staged rate reduction of any duty set forth in 
Schedule XX, as defined in section 2102(5) of 
that Act, if the United States agrees to such 
modification or staged rate reduction in a negotiation 
for the reciprocal elimination or harmonization 
of duties under the auspices of the 
World Trade Organization. 
(7) AUTHORITY UNDER URUGUAY ROUND AGREEMENTS 
ACT NOT AFFECTED.—Nothing in this subsection 
shall limit the authority provided to the 
President under section 111(b) of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3521(b)). 
(b) AGREEMENTS REGARDING TARIFF AND NONTARIFF 
BARRIERS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.— 
(A) DETERMINATION BY PRESIDENT.—Whenever 
the President determines that— 
(i) one or more existing duties or any other import 
restriction of any foreign country or the 
United States or any other barrier to, or other 
distortion of, international trade unduly burdens 
or restricts the foreign trade of the United 
States or adversely affects the United States 
economy; or 
(ii) the imposition of any such barrier or distortion 
is likely to result in such a burden, restriction, 
or effect; 
and that the purposes, policies, priorities, and 
objectives of this title will be promoted thereby, 
the President may enter into a trade agreement 
described in subparagraph (B) during the period 
described in subparagraph (C). 
(B) AGREEMENT TO REDUCE OR ELIMINATE CERTAIN 
DISTORTION.—The President may enter into 
a trade agreement under subparagraph (A) with 
foreign countries providing for— 
(i) the reduction or elimination of a duty, restriction, 
barrier, or other distortion described in 
subparagraph (A), or 
(ii) the prohibition of, or limitation on the imposition 
of, such barrier or other distortion. 
(C) TIME PERIOD.—The President may enter 
into a trade agreement under this paragraph 
before— 
(i) June 1, 2005; or 

(ii) June 1, 2007, if trade authorities procedures 
are extended under subsection (c). 
(2) CONDITIONS.—A trade agreement may be 
entered into under this subsection only if such 
agreement makes progress in meeting the applicable 
objectives described in section 2102 (a) and 
(b) and the President satisfies the conditions set 
forth in section 2104. 
(3) BILLS QUALIFYING FOR TRADE AUTHORITIES 
PROCEDURES.— 
(A) APPLICATION OF EXPEDITED PROCEDURES.—
The provisions of section 151 of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (in this title referred to as 
‘‘trade authorities procedures’’) apply to a bill 
of either House of Congress which contains provisions 
described in subparagraph (B) to the 
same extent as such section 151 applies to implementing 
bills under that section. A bill to which 
this paragraph applies shall hereafter in this 
title be referred to as an ‘‘implementing bill’’. 

(B) PROVISIONS DESCRIBED.—The provisions 
referred to in subparagraph (A) are— 
(i) a provision approving a trade agreement 
entered into under this subsection and approving 
the statement of administrative action, if 
any, proposed to implement such trade agreement; 
and 
(ii) if changes in existing laws or new statutory 
authority are required to implement such 
trade agreement or agreements, provisions, necessary 
or appropriate to implement such trade 
agreement or agreements, either repealing or 
amending existing laws or providing new statutory 
authority. 
(4) LIMITATIONS ON TRADE AUTHORITIES PROCEDURES.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the provisions of section 151 of 
the Trade Act of 1974 (trade authorities procedures) 
shall not apply to any provision in an 
implementing bill being considered by the Senate 
that modifies or amends, or requires a modification 
of, or an amendment to, any law of the 
United States that provides safeguards from unfair 
foreign trade practices to United States 
businesses or workers, including— 
(i) imposition of countervailing and anti-
dumping duties (title VII of the Tariff Act of 
1930; 19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.); 
(ii) protection from unfair methods of competition 
and unfair acts in the importation of articles 
(section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930; 19 
U.S.C. 1337); 
(iii) relief from injury caused by import competition 
(title II of the Trade Act of 1974; 19 
U.S.C. 2251 et seq.); 
(iv) relief from unfair trade practices (title III 
of the Trade Act of 1974; 19 U.S.C. 2411 et seq.); 
or 
(v) national security import restrictions (section 
232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962; 19 
U.S.C. 1862). 
(B) POINT OF ORDER IN SENATE.— 
(i) IN GENERAL.—When the Senate is considering 
an implementing bill, upon a point of 
order being made by any Senator against any 
part of the implementing bill that contains material 
in violation of subparagraph (A), and the 
point of order is sustained by the Presiding Officer, 
the part of the implementing bill against 
which the point of order is sustained shall be 
stricken from the bill. 
(ii) WAIVERS AND APPEALS.— 
(I) WAIVERS.—Before the Presiding Officer 
rules on a point of order described in clause (i), 
any Senator may move to waive the point of 
order and the motion to waive shall not be subject 
to amendment. A point of order described in 
clause (i) is waived only by the affirmative vote 
of a majority of the Members of the Senate, duly 
chosen and sworn. 
(II) APPEALS.—After the Presiding Officer 
rules on a point of order under this subparagraph, 
any Senator may appeal the ruling of 
the Presiding Officer on the point of order as it 
applies to some or all of the provisions on which 
the Presiding Officer ruled. A ruling of the Presiding 
Officer on a point of order described in 
clause (i) is sustained unless a majority of the 
Members of the Senate, duly chosen and sworn, 
vote not to sustain the ruling. 
(III) DEBATE.—Debate on a motion to waive 
under subclause (I) or on an appeal of the ruling 
of the Presiding Officer under subclause (II) 
shall be limited to 1 hour. The time shall be 
equally divided between, and controlled by, the 
majority leader and the minority leader, or their 
designees. 
(c) EXTENSION DISAPPROVAL PROCESS FOR 
CONGRESSIONAL TRADE AUTHORITIES PROCEDURES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in section 
2105(b)— 
(A) the trade authorities procedures apply to 
implementing bills submitted with respect to 

June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4919 

trade agreements entered into under subsection 

(b) before July 1, 2005; and 
(B) the trade authorities procedures shall be 
extended to implementing bills submitted with 
respect to trade agreements entered into under 
subsection (b) after June 30, 2005, and before 
July 1, 2007, if (and only if)— 
(i) the President requests such extension 
under paragraph (2); and 
(ii) neither House of the Congress adopts an 
extension disapproval resolution under paragraph 
(5) before June 1, 2005. 
(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS BY THE PRESIDENT.— 
If the President is of the opinion that the trade 
authorities procedures should be extended to implementing 
bills described in paragraph (1)(B), 
the President shall submit to the Congress, not 
later than March 1, 2005, a written report that 
contains a request for such extension, together 
with— 
(A) a description of all trade agreements that 
have been negotiated under subsection (b) and 
the anticipated schedule for submitting such 
agreements to the Congress for approval; 
(B) a description of the progress that has been 
made in negotiations to achieve the purposes, 
policies, priorities, and objectives of this title, 
and a statement that such progress justifies the 
continuation of negotiations; and 
(C) a statement of the reasons why the extension 
is needed to complete the negotiations. 
(3) OTHER REPORTS TO CONGRESS.— 
(A) REPORT BY THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.— 
The President shall promptly inform the Advisory 
Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations 
established under section 135 of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2155) of the President’s decision 
to submit a report to the Congress under 
paragraph (2). The Advisory Committee shall 
submit to the Congress as soon as practicable, 
but not later than May 1, 2005, a written report 
that contains— 
(i) its views regarding the progress that has 
been made in negotiations to achieve the purposes, 
policies, priorities, and objectives of this 
title; and 
(ii) a statement of its views, and the reasons 
therefor, regarding whether the extension requested 
under paragraph (2) should be approved 
or disapproved. 
(B) REPORT BY ITC.—The President shall 
promptly inform the International Trade Commission 
of the President’s decision to submit a 
report to the Congress under paragraph (2). The 
International Trade Commission shall submit to 
the Congress as soon as practicable, but not 
later than May 1, 2005, a written report that 
contains a review and analysis of the economic 
impact on the United States of all trade agreements 
implemented between the date of enactment 
of this Act and the date on which the 
President decides to seek an extension requested 
under paragraph (2). 
(4) STATUS OF REPORTS.—The reports submitted 
to the Congress under paragraphs (2) and 
(3), or any portion of such reports, may be classified 
to the extent the President determines appropriate. 
(5) EXTENSION DISAPPROVAL RESOLUTIONS.— 
(A) DEFINITION.—For purposes of paragraph 
(1), the term ‘‘extension disapproval resolution’’ 
means a resolution of either House of the Congress, 
the sole matter after the resolving clause 
of which is as follows: ‘‘That the lllll disapproves 
the request of the President for the extension, 
under section 2103(c)(1)(B)(i) of the Bipartisan 
Trade Promotion Authority Act of 2002, 
of the trade authorities procedures under that 
Act to any implementing bill submitted with respect 
to any trade agreement entered into under 
section 2103(b) of that Act after June 30, 2005.’’, 
with the blank space being filled with the name 
of the resolving House of the Congress. 
(B) INTRODUCTION.—Extension disapproval 
resolutions— 
(i) may be introduced in either House of the 
Congress by any member of such House; and 
(ii) shall be referred, in the House of Representatives, 
to the Committee on Ways and 
Means and, in addition, to the Committee on 
Rules. 

(C) APPLICATION OF SECTION 152 OF THE TRADE 
ACT OF 1974.—The provisions of section 152 (d) 
and (e) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2192 
(d) and (e)) (relating to the floor consideration 
of certain resolutions in the House and Senate) 
apply to extension disapproval resolutions. 
(D) LIMITATIONS.—It is not in order for— 
(i) the Senate to consider any extension disapproval 
resolution not reported by the Committee 
on Finance; 
(ii) the House of Representatives to consider 
any extension disapproval resolution not reported 
by the Committee on Ways and Means 
and, in addition, by the Committee on Rules; or 
(iii) either House of the Congress to consider 
an extension disapproval resolution after June 
30, 2005. 
(d) COMMENCEMENT OF NEGOTIATIONS.—In 
order to contribute to the continued economic 
expansion of the United States, the President 
shall commence negotiations covering tariff and 
nontariff barriers affecting any industry, product, 
or service sector, and expand existing sectoral 
agreements to countries that are not parties 
to those agreements, in cases where the 
President determines that such negotiations are 
feasible and timely and would benefit the 
United States. Such sectors include agriculture, 
commercial services, intellectual property rights, 
industrial and capital goods, government procurement, 
information technology products, environmental 
technology and services, medical 
equipment and services, civil aircraft, and infrastructure 
products. In so doing, the President 
shall take into account all of the principal negotiating 
objectives set forth in section 2102(b). 
SEC. 2104. CONSULTATIONS AND ASSESSMENT. 

(a) NOTICE AND CONSULTATION BEFORE NEGO-
TIATION.—The President, with respect to any 
agreement that is subject to the provisions of 
section 2103(b), shall— 
(1) provide, at least 90 calendar days before 
initiating negotiations, written notice to the 
Congress of the President’s intention to enter 
into the negotiations and set forth therein the 
date the President intends to initiate such negotiations, 
the specific United States objectives for 
the negotiations, and whether the President intends 
to seek an agreement, or changes to an existing 
agreement; 
(2) before and after submission of the notice, 
consult regarding the negotiations with the 
Committee on Finance of the Senate and the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives, such other committees of the 
House and Senate as the President deems appropriate, 
and the Congressional Oversight group 
convened under section 2107; and 
(3) upon the request of a majority of the members 
of the Congressional Oversight Group 
under section 2107(c), meet with the Congressional 
Oversight Group before initiating the negotiations 
or at any other time concerning the 
negotiations. 
(b) NEGOTIATIONS REGARDING AGRICULTURE 
AND FISHING INDUSTRY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Before initiating or continuing 
negotiations the subject matter of which 
is directly related to the subject matter under 
section 2102(b)(10)(A)(i) with any country, the 
President shall assess whether United States 
tariffs on agricultural products that were bound 
under the Uruguay Round Agreements are lower 
than the tariffs bound by that country. In addition, 
the President shall consider whether the 
tariff levels bound and applied throughout the 
world with respect to imports from the United 
States are higher than United States tariffs and 
whether the negotiation provides an opportunity 
to address any such disparity. The President 
shall consult with the Committee on Ways 
and Means and the Committee on Agriculture of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate concerning 
the results of the assessment, whether it 
is appropriate for the United States to agree to 
further tariff reductions based on the conclusions 
reached in the assessment, and how all applicable 
negotiating objectives will be met. 

(2) SPECIAL CONSULTATIONS ON IMPORT SENSITIVE 
PRODUCTS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Before initiating negotiations 
with regard to agriculture, and, with respect 
to the Free Trade Area for the Americas 
and negotiations with regard to agriculture 
under the auspices of the World Trade Organization, 
as soon as practicable after the enactment 
of this Act, the United States Trade Representative 
shall— 
(i) identify those agricultural products subject 
to tariff-rate quotas on the date of enactment of 
this Act, and agricultural products subject to 
tariff reductions by the United States as a result 
of the Uruguay Round Agreements, for which 
the rate of duty was reduced on January 1, 1995, 
to a rate which was not less than 97.5 percent 
of the rate of duty that applied to such article 
on December 31, 1994; 
(ii) consult with the Committee on Ways and 
Means and the Committee on Agriculture of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Finance and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry of the Senate concerning— 
(I) whether any further tariff reductions on 
the products identified under clause (i) should 
be appropriate, taking into account the impact 
of any such tariff reduction on the United 
States industry producing the product concerned; 
(II) whether the products so identified face 
unjustified sanitary or phytosanitary restrictions, 
including those not based on scientific 
principles in contravention of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements; and 
(III) whether the countries participating in 
the negotiations maintain export subsidies or 
other programs, policies, or practices that distort 
world trade in such products and the impact of 
such programs, policies, and practices on United 
States producers of the products; 
(iii) request that the International Trade Commission 
prepare an assessment of the probable 
economic effects of any such tariff reduction on 
the United States industry producing the product 
concerned and on the United States economy 
as a whole; and 
(iv) upon complying with clauses (i), (ii), and 
(iii), notify the Committee on Ways and Means 
and the Committee on Agriculture of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Finance 
and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry of the Senate of those products 
identified under clause (i) for which the 
Trade Representative intends to seek tariff liberalization 
in the negotiations and the reasons for 
seeking such tariff liberalization. 
(B) IDENTIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL AGRICULTURAL 
PRODUCTS.—If, after negotiations described 
in subparagraph (A) are commenced— 
(i) the United States Trade Representative 
identifies any additional agricultural product 
described in subparagraph (A)(i) for tariff reductions 
which were not the subject of a notification 
under subparagraph (A)(iv), or 
(ii) any additional agricultural product described 
in subparagraph (A)(i) is the subject of 
a request for tariff reductions by a party to the 
negotiations, 
the Trade Representative shall, as soon as practicable, 
notify the committees referred to in subparagraph 
(A)(iv) of those products and the reasons 
for seeking such tariff reductions. 
(3) NEGOTIATIONS REGARDING THE FISHING IN-
DUSTRY.—Before initiating, or continuing, negotiations 
which directly relate to fish or shellfish 
trade with any country, the President shall consult 
with the Committee on Ways and Means 
and the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Finance 
and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate, and shall keep 
the Committees apprised of negotiations on an 
ongoing and timely basis. 

S4920 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

(c) NEGOTIATIONS REGARDING TEXTILES.—Before 
initiating or continuing negotiations the 
subject matter of which is directly related to textiles 
and apparel products with any country, 
the President shall assess whether United States 
tariffs on textile and apparel products that were 
bound under the Uruguay Round Agreements 
are lower than the tariffs bound by that country 
and whether the negotiation provides an opportunity 
to address any such disparity. The President 
shall consult with the Committee on Ways 
and Means of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Finance of the Senate concerning 
the results of the assessment, whether it 
is appropriate for the United States to agree to 
further tariff reductions based on the conclusions 
reached in the assessment, and how all applicable 
negotiating objectives will be met. 
(d) CONSULTATION WITH CONGRESS BEFORE 
AGREEMENTS ENTERED INTO.— 
(1) CONSULTATION.—Before entering into any 
trade agreement under section 2103(b), the President 
shall consult with— 
(A) the Committee on Ways and Means of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Finance of the Senate; 
(B) each other committee of the House and the 
Senate, and each joint committee of the Congress, 
which has jurisdiction over legislation involving 
subject matters which would be affected 
by the trade agreement; and 
(C) the Congressional Oversight Group convened 
under section 2107. 
(2) SCOPE.—The consultation described in 
paragraph (1) shall include consultation with 
respect to— 
(A) the nature of the agreement; 
(B) how and to what extent the agreement 
will achieve the applicable purposes, policies, 
priorities, and objectives of this title; and 
(C) the implementation of the agreement 
under section 2105, including the general effect 
of the agreement on existing laws. 
(3) REPORT REGARDING UNITED STATES TRADE 
REMEDY LAWS.— 
(A) CHANGES IN CERTAIN TRADE LAWS.—The 
President, at least 90 calendar days before the 
day on which the President enters into a trade 
agreement, shall notify the Committee on Ways 
and Means of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Finance of the Senate in writing 
of any amendments to title VII of the Tariff 
Act of 1930 or chapter 1 of title II of the Trade 
Act of 1974 that the President proposes to include 
in a bill implementing such trade agreement. 
(B) EXPLANATION.—On the date that the 
President transmits the notification, the President 
also shall transmit to the Committees a report 
explaining— 
(i) the President’s reasons for believing that 
amendments to title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 
or to chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 
1974 are necessary to implement the trade agreement; 
and 
(ii) the President’s reasons for believing that 
such amendments are consistent with the purposes, 
policies, and objectives described in section 
2102(c)(9). 
(C) REPORT TO HOUSE.—Not later than 60 calendar 
days after the date on which the President 
transmits the notification described in subparagraph 
(A), the Chairman and ranking member 
of the Ways and Means Committee of the 
House of Representatives, based on consultations 
with the members of that Committee, shall 
issue to the House of Representatives a report 
stating whether the proposed amendments described 
in the President’s notification are consistent 
with the purposes, policies, and objectives 
described in section 2102(c)(9). In the event 
that the Chairman and ranking member disagree 
with respect to one or more conclusions, 
the report shall contain the separate views of 
the Chairman and ranking member. 
(D) REPORT TO SENATE.—Not later than 60 
calendar days after the date on which the President 
transmits the notification described in subparagraph 
(A), the Chairman and ranking member 
of the Finance Committee of the Senate, 
based on consultations with the members of that 
Committee, shall issue to the Senate a report 
stating whether the proposed amendments described 
in the President’s report are consistent 
with the purposes, policies, and objectives described 
in section 2102(c)(9). In the event that 
the Chairman and ranking member disagree 
with respect to one or more conclusions, the report 
shall contain the separate views of the 
Chairman and ranking member. 

(e) ADVISORY COMMITTEE REPORTS.—The report 
required under section 135(e)(1) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 regarding any trade agreement 
entered into under section 2103 (a) or (b) 
of this title shall be provided to the President, 
the Congress, and the United States Trade Representative 
not later than 30 days after the date 
on which the President notifies the Congress 
under section 2103(a)(1) or 2105(a)(1)(A) of the 
President’s intention to enter into the agreement. 
(f) ITC ASSESSMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President, at least 90 
calendar days before the day on which the 
President enters into a trade agreement under 
section 2103(b), shall provide the International 
Trade Commission (referred to in this subsection 
as ‘‘the Commission’’) with the details of the 
agreement as it exists at that time and request 
the Commission to prepare and submit an assessment 
of the agreement as described in paragraph 
(2). Between the time the President makes 
the request under this paragraph and the time 
the Commission submits the assessment, the 
President shall keep the Commission current 
with respect to the details of the agreement. 
(2) ITC ASSESSMENT.—Not later than 90 calendar 
days after the President enters into the 
agreement, the Commission shall submit to the 
President and the Congress a report assessing 
the likely impact of the agreement on the United 
States economy as a whole and on specific industry 
sectors, including the impact the agreement 
will have on the gross domestic product, 
exports and imports, aggregate employment and 
employment opportunities, the production, employment, 
and competitive position of industries 
likely to be significantly affected by the agreement, 
and the interests of United States consumers. 
(3) REVIEW OF EMPIRICAL LITERATURE.—In 
preparing the assessment, the Commission shall 
review available economic assessments regarding 
the agreement, including literature regarding 
any substantially equivalent proposed agreement, 
and shall provide in its assessment a description 
of the analyses used and conclusions 
drawn in such literature, and a discussion of 
areas of consensus and divergence between the 
various analyses and conclusions, including 
those of the Commission regarding the agreement. 
SEC. 2105. IMPLEMENTATION OF TRADE AGREEMENTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.— 
(1) NOTIFICATION AND SUBMISSION.—Any 
agreement entered into under section 2103(b) 
shall enter into force with respect to the United 
States if (and only if)— 
(A) the President, at least 90 calendar days 
before the day on which the President enters 
into an agreement— 
(i) notifies the House of Representatives and 
the Senate of the President’s intention to enter 
into the agreement, and promptly thereafter 
publishes notice of such intention in the Federal 
Register; and 
(ii) transmits to the Committee on Ways and 
Means of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Finance of the Senate the notification 
and report described in section 2104(d)(3) 
(A) and (B); 
(B) within 60 days after entering into the 
agreement, the President submits to the Congress 
a description of those changes to existing 
laws that the President considers would be required 
in order to bring the United States into 
compliance with the agreement; 

(C) after entering into the agreement, the 
President submits to the Congress, on a day on 
which both Houses of Congress are in session, a 
copy of the final legal text of the agreement, together 
with— 
(i) a draft of an implementing bill described in 
section 2103(b)(3); 
(ii) a statement of any administrative action 
proposed to implement the trade agreement; and 
(iii) the supporting information described in 
paragraph (2); and 
(D) the implementing bill is enacted into law. 
(2) SUPPORTING INFORMATION.—The supporting 
information required under paragraph 
(1)(C)(iii) consists of— 
(A) an explanation as to how the implementing 
bill and proposed administrative action 
will change or affect existing law; and 
(B) a statement— 
(i) asserting that the agreement makes 
progress in achieving the applicable purposes, 
policies, priorities, and objectives of this title; 
and 
(ii) setting forth the reasons of the President 
regarding— 
(I) how and to what extent the agreement 
makes progress in achieving the applicable purposes, 
policies, and objectives referred to in 
clause (i); 
(II) whether and how the agreement changes 
provisions of an agreement previously negotiated; 
(III) how the agreement serves the interests of 
United States commerce; 
(IV) how the implementing bill meets the 
standards set forth in section 2103(b)(3); 
(V) how and to what extent the agreement 
makes progress in achieving the applicable purposes, 
policies, and objectives referred to in section 
2102(c) regarding the promotion of certain 
priorities; and 
(VI) in the event that the reports described in 
section 2104(b)(3) (C) and (D) contain any findings 
that the proposed amendments are inconsistent 
with the purposes, policies, and objectives 
described in section 2102(c)(9), an explanation 
as to why the President believes such 
findings to be incorrect. 
(3) RECIPROCAL BENEFITS.—In order to ensure 
that a foreign country that is not a party to a 
trade agreement entered into under section 
2103(b) does not receive benefits under the 
agreement unless the country is also subject to 
the obligations under the agreement, the implementing 
bill submitted with respect to the agreement 
shall provide that the benefits and obligations 
under the agreement apply only to the 
parties to the agreement, if such application is 
consistent with the terms of the agreement. The 
implementing bill may also provide that the benefits 
and obligations under the agreement do not 
apply uniformly to all parties to the agreement, 
if such application is consistent with the terms 
of the agreement. 
(4) DISCLOSURE OF COMMITMENTS.—Any 
agreement or other understanding with a foreign 
government or governments (whether oral 
or in writing) that— 
(A) relates to a trade agreement with respect 
to which Congress enacts implementing legislation 
under trade authorities procedures, and 
(B) is not disclosed to Congress before legislation 
implementing that agreement is introduced 
in either House of Congress, 
shall not be considered to be part of the agreement 
approved by Congress and shall have no 
force and effect under United States law or in 
any dispute settlement body. 
(b) LIMITATIONS ON TRADE AUTHORITIES PROCEDURES.— 
(1) FOR LACK OF NOTICE OR CONSULTATIONS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The trade authorities procedures 
shall not apply to any implementing bill 
submitted with respect to a trade agreement or 
trade agreements entered into under section 
2103(b) if during the 60-day period beginning on 

June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4921 

the date that one House of Congress agrees to a 
procedural disapproval resolution for lack of 
notice or consultations with respect to such 
trade agreement or agreements, the other House 
separately agrees to a procedural disapproval 
resolution with respect to such trade agreement 
or agreements. 

(B) PROCEDURAL DISAPPROVAL RESOLUTION.— 
(i) For purposes of this paragraph, the term 
‘‘procedural disapproval resolution’’ means a 
resolution of either House of Congress, the sole 
matter after the resolving clause of which is as 
follows: ‘‘That the President has failed or refused 
to notify or consult in accordance with 
the Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority Act 
of 2002 on negotiations with respect to 
llllll and, therefore, the trade authorities 
procedures under that Act shall not apply 
to any implementing bill submitted with respect 
to such trade agreement or agreements.’’, with 
the blank space being filled with a description 
of the trade agreement or agreements with respect 
to which the President is considered to 
have failed or refused to notify or consult. 
(ii) For purposes of clause (i), the President 
has ‘‘failed or refused to notify or consult in accordance 
with the Bipartisan Trade Promotion 
Authority Act of 2002’’ on negotiations with respect 
to a trade agreement or trade agreements 
if— 
(I) the President has failed or refused to consult 
(as the case may be) in accordance with section 
2104 or 2105 with respect to the negotiations, 
agreement, or agreements; 
(II) guidelines under section 2107(b) have not 
been developed or met with respect to the negotiations, 
agreement, or agreements; 
(III) the President has not met with the Congressional 
Oversight Group pursuant to a request 
made under section 2107(c) with respect to 
the negotiations, agreement, or agreements; or 
(IV) the agreement or agreements fail to make 
progress in achieving the purposes, policies, priorities, 
and objectives of this title. 
(C) PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERING RESOLUTIONS.—(
i) Procedural disapproval resolutions— 
(I) in the House of Representatives— 
(aa) may be introduced by any Member of the 
House; 
(bb) shall be referred to the Committee on 
Ways and Means and, in addition, to the Committee 
on Rules; and 

(cc) may not be amended by either Committee; 
and 
(II) in the Senate— 
(aa) may be introduced by any Member of the 
Senate. 
(bb) shall be referred to the Committee on Finance; 
and 

(cc) may not be amended. 
(ii) The provisions of section 152 (d) and (e) of 
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2192 (d) and (e)) 
(relating to the floor consideration of certain 
resolutions in the House and Senate) apply to a 
procedural disapproval resolution introduced 
with respect to a trade agreement if no other 
procedural disapproval resolution with respect 
to that trade agreement has previously been 
considered under such provisions of section 152 
of the Trade Act of 1974 in that House of Congress 
during that Congress. 
(iii) It is not in order for the House of Representatives 
to consider any procedural disapproval 
resolution not reported by the Committee 
on Ways and Means and, in addition, by 
the Committee on Rules. 
(iv) It is not in order for the Senate to consider 
any procedural disapproval resolution not 
reported by the Committee on Finance. 
(2) FOR FAILURE TO MEET OTHER REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Prior to December 31, 2002, the Secretary 
of Commerce shall transmit to Congress a 
report setting forth the strategy of the United 
States for correcting instances in which dispute 
settlement panels and the Appellate Body of the 
WTO have added to obligations or diminished 
rights of the United States, as described in section 
2101(b)(3). Trade authorities procedures 
shall not apply to any implementing bill with respect 
to an agreement negotiated under the auspices 
of the WTO, unless the Secretary of Commerce 
has issued such report in a timely manner. 


(c) RULES OF HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AND 
SENATE.—Subsection (b) of this section and section 
2103(c) are enacted by the Congress— 
(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate, respectively, 
and as such are deemed a part of the 
rules of each House, respectively, and such procedures 
supersede other rules only to the extent 
that they are inconsistent with such other rules; 
and 
(2) with the full recognition of the constitutional 
right of either House to change the rules 
(so far as relating to the procedures of that 
House) at any time, in the same manner, and to 
the same extent as any other rule of that House. 
SEC. 2106. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN TRADE 
AGREEMENTS FOR WHICH NEGOTIATIONS 
HAVE ALREADY BEGUN. 

(a) CERTAIN AGREEMENTS.—Notwithstanding 
the prenegotiation notification and consultation 
requirement described in section 2104(a), if an 
agreement to which section 2103(b) applies— 
(1) is entered into under the auspices of the 
World Trade Organization, 
(2) is entered into with Chile, 
(3) is entered into with Singapore, or 
(4) establishes a Free Trade Area for the 
Americas, 
and results from negotiations that were commenced 
before the date of the enactment of this 
Act, subsection (b) shall apply. 
(b) TREATMENT OF AGREEMENTS.—In the case 
of any agreement to which subsection (a) 
applies— 
(1) the applicability of the trade authorities 
procedures to implementing bills shall be determined 
without regard to the requirements of section 
2104(a) (relating only to 90 days notice 
prior to initiating negotiations), and any procedural 
disapproval resolution under section 
2105(b)(1)(B) shall not be in order on the basis 
of a failure or refusal to comply with the provisions 
of section 2104(a); and 
(2) the President shall, as soon as feasible 
after the enactment of this Act— 
(A) notify the Congress of the negotiations described 
in subsection (a), the specific United 
States objectives in the negotiations, and whether 
the President is seeking a new agreement or 
changes to an existing agreement; and 
(B) before and after submission of the notice, 
consult regarding the negotiations with the committees 
referred to in section 2104(a)(2) and the 
Congressional Oversight Group. 
SEC. 2107. CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT GROUP. 

(a) MEMBERS AND FUNCTIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—By not later than 60 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
not later than 30 days after the convening of 
each Congress, the chairman of the Committee 
on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives 
and the chairman of the Committee on Finance 
of the Senate shall convene the Congressional 
Oversight Group. 
(2) MEMBERSHIP FROM THE HOUSE.—In each 
Congress, the Congressional Oversight Group 
shall be comprised of the following Members of 
the House of Representatives: 
(A) The chairman and ranking member of the 
Committee on Ways and Means, and 3 additional 
members of such Committee (not more 
than 2 of whom are members of the same political 
party). 
(B) The chairman and ranking member, or 
their designees, of the committees of the House 
of Representatives which would have, under the 
Rules of the House of Representatives, jurisdiction 
over provisions of law affected by a trade 
agreement negotiations for which are conducted 
at any time during that Congress and to which 
this title would apply. 
(3) MEMBERSHIP FROM THE SENATE.—In each 
Congress, the Congressional Oversight Group 
shall also be comprised of the following members 
of the Senate: 

(A) The chairman and ranking Member of the 
Committee on Finance and 3 additional members 
of such Committee (not more than 2 of whom are 
members of the same political party). 
(B) The chairman and ranking member, or 
their designees, of the committees of the Senate 
which would have, under the Rules of the Senate, 
jurisdiction over provisions of law affected 
by a trade agreement negotiations for which are 
conducted at any time during that Congress and 
to which this title would apply. 
(4) ACCREDITATION.—Each member of the Congressional 
Oversight Group described in paragraph 
(2)(A) and (3)(A) shall be accredited by 
the United States Trade Representative on behalf 
of the President as official advisers to the 
United States delegation in negotiations for any 
trade agreement to which this title applies. Each 
member of the Congressional Oversight Group 
described in paragraph (2)(B) and (3)(B) shall 
be accredited by the United States Trade Representative 
on behalf of the President as official 
advisers to the United States delegation in the 
negotiations by reason of which the member is 
in the Congressional Oversight Group. The Congressional 
Oversight Group shall consult with 
and provide advice to the Trade Representative 
regarding the formulation of specific objectives, 
negotiating strategies and positions, the development 
of the applicable trade agreement, and 
compliance and enforcement of the negotiated 
commitments under the trade agreement. 
(5) CHAIR.—The Congressional Oversight 
Group shall be chaired by the Chairman of the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives and the Chairman of the Committee 
on Finance of the Senate. 
(b) GUIDELINES.— 
(1) PURPOSE AND REVISION.—The United 
States Trade Representative, in consultation 
with the chairmen and ranking minority members 
of the Committee on Ways and Means of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Finance of the Senate— 
(A) shall, within 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, develop written guidelines 
to facilitate the useful and timely exchange 
of information between the Trade Representative 
and the Congressional Oversight Group established 
under this section; and 
(B) may make such revisions to the guidelines 
as may be necessary from time to time. 
(2) CONTENT.—The guidelines developed under 
paragraph (1) shall provide for, among other 
things— 
(A) regular, detailed briefings of the Congressional 
Oversight Group regarding negotiating 
objectives, including the promotion of certain 
priorities referred to in section 2102(c), and positions 
and the status of the applicable negotiations, 
beginning as soon as practicable after the 
Congressional Oversight Group is convened, 
with more frequent briefings as trade negotiations 
enter the final stage; 
(B) access by members of the Congressional 
Oversight Group, and staff with proper security 
clearances, to pertinent documents relating to 
the negotiations, including classified materials; 
(C) the closest practicable coordination between 
the Trade Representative and the Congressional 
Oversight Group at all critical periods 
during the negotiations, including at negotiation 
sites; 
(D) after the applicable trade agreement is 
concluded, consultation regarding ongoing compliance 
and enforcement of negotiated commitments 
under the trade agreement; and 
(E) the time frame for submitting the report 
required under section 2102(c)(8). 
(c) REQUEST FOR MEETING.—Upon the request 
of a majority of the Congressional Oversight 
Group, the President shall meet with the Congressional 
Oversight Group before initiating negotiations 
with respect to a trade agreement, or 
at any other time concerning the negotiations. 

S4922 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

SEC. 2108. ADDITIONAL IMPLEMENTATION AND 
ENFORCEMENT REQUIREMENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—At the time the President 
submits to the Congress the final text of an 
agreement pursuant to section 2105(a)(1)(C), the 
President shall also submit a plan for implementing 
and enforcing the agreement. The implementation 
and enforcement plan shall include 
the following: 
(1) BORDER PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS.—A description 
of additional personnel required at 
border entry points, including a list of additional 
customs and agricultural inspectors. 
(2) AGENCY STAFFING REQUIREMENTS.—A description 
of additional personnel required by 
Federal agencies responsible for monitoring and 
implementing the trade agreement, including 
personnel required by the Office of the United 
States Trade Representative, the Department of 
Commerce, the Department of Agriculture (including 
additional personnel required to implement 
sanitary and phytosanitary measures in 
order to obtain market access for United States 
exports), the Department of the Treasury, and 
such other agencies as may be necessary. 
(3) CUSTOMS INFRASTRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.—
A description of the additional equipment 
and facilities needed by the United States 
Customs Service. 
(4) IMPACT ON STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.—
A description of the impact the trade 
agreement will have on State and local governments 
as a result of increases in trade. 
(5) COST ANALYSIS.—An analysis of the costs 
associated with each of the items listed in paragraphs 
(1) through (4). 
(b) BUDGET SUBMISSION.—The President shall 
include a request for the resources necessary to 
support the plan described in subsection (a) in 
the first budget that the President submits to the 
Congress after the submission of the plan. 
SEC. 2109. COMMITTEE STAFF. 

The grant of trade promotion authority under 
this title is likely to increase the activities of the 
primary committees of jurisdiction in the area of 
international trade. In addition, the creation of 
the Congressional Oversight Group under section 
2107 will increase the participation of a 
broader number of Members of Congress in the 
formulation of United States trade policy and 
oversight of the international trade agenda for 
the United States. The primary committees of jurisdiction 
should have adequate staff to accommodate 
these increases in activities. 
SEC. 2110. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Title I of the Trade Act of 
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2111 et seq.) is amended as follows: 
(1) IMPLEMENTING BILL.— 
(A) Section 151(b)(1) (19 U.S.C. 2191(b)(1)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘section 1103(a)(1) of the 
Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, 
or section 282 of the Uruguay Round Agreements 
Act’’ and inserting ‘‘section 282 of the 
Uruguay Round Agreements Act, or section 
2105(a)(1) of the Bipartisan Trade Promotion 
Authority Act of 2002’’. 

(B) Section 151(c)(1) (19 U.S.C. 2191(c)(1)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘or section 282 of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements Act’’ and inserting ‘‘, 
section 282 of the Uruguay Round Agreements 
Act, or section 2105(a)(1) of the Bipartisan 
Trade Promotion Authority Act of 2002’’. 

(2) ADVICE FROM INTERNATIONAL TRADE COM-
MISSION.—Section 131 (19 U.S.C. 2151) is 
amended— 
(A) in subsection (a)— 
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘section 123 
of this Act or section 1102 (a) or (c) of the Omnibus 
Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988,’’ 
and inserting ‘‘section 123 of this Act or section 
2103 (a) or (b) of the Bipartisan Trade Promotion 
Authority Act of 2002,’’; and 
(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘section 1102 
(b) or (c) of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness 
Act of 1988’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
2103(b) of the Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority 
Act of 2002’’; 
(B) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘section 
1102(a)(3)(A)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
2103(a)(3)(A) of the Bipartisan Trade Promotion 
Authority Act of 2002’’; and 
(C) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘section 1102 
of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act 
of 1988,’’ and inserting ‘‘section 2103 of the Bipartisan 
Trade Promotion Authority Act of 
2002,’’. 
(3) HEARINGS AND ADVICE.—Sections 132, 
133(a), and 134(a) (19 U.S.C. 2152, 2153(a), and 
2154(a)) are each amended by striking ‘‘section 
1102 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness 
Act of 1988,’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘section 2103 of the Bipartisan Trade Promotion 
Authority Act of 2002,’’. 
(4) PREREQUISITES FOR OFFERS.—Section 
134(b) (19 U.S.C. 2154(b)) is amended by striking 
‘‘section 1102 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness 
Act of 1988’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
2103 of the Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority 
Act of 2002’’. 
(5) ADVICE FROM PRIVATE AND PUBLIC SECTORS.—
Section 135 (19 U.S.C. 2155) is amended— 
(A) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by striking ‘‘section 
1102 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness 
Act of 1988’’ and inserting ‘‘section 2103 
of the Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority 
Act of 2002’’; 
(B) in subsection (e)(1)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘section 1102 of the Omnibus 
Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988’’ each 
place it appears and inserting ‘‘section 2103 of 
the Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority Act 
of 2002’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘not later than the date on 
which the President notifies the Congress under 
section 1103(a)(1)(A) of such Act of 1988 of his 
intention to enter into that agreement’’ and inserting 
‘‘not later than the date that is 30 days 
after the date on which the President notifies 
the Congress under section 5(a)(1)(A) of the Bipartisan 
Trade Promotion Authority Act of 2002 
of the President’s intention to enter into that 
agreement’’; and 
(C) in subsection (e)(2), by striking ‘‘section 
1101 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness 
Act of 1988’’ and inserting ‘‘section 2102 of the 
Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority Act of 
2002’’. 
(6) TRANSMISSION OF AGREEMENTS TO CONGRESS.—
Section 162(a) (19 U.S.C. 2212(a)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘or under section 1102 of 
the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 
1988’’ and inserting ‘‘or under section 2103 of 
the Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority Act 
of 2002’’. 
(b) APPLICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS.— 
For purposes of applying sections 125, 126, and 
127 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2135, 
2136(a), and 2137)— 
(1) any trade agreement entered into under 
section 2103 shall be treated as an agreement entered 
into under section 101 or 102, as appropriate, 
of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2111 
or 2112); and 
(2) any proclamation or Executive order issued 
pursuant to a trade agreement entered into 
under section 2103 shall be treated as a proclamation 
or Executive order issued pursuant to a 
trade agreement entered into under section 102 
of the Trade Act of 1974. 
SEC. 2111. REPORT ON IMPACT OF TRADE PROMOTION 
AUTHORITY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the International 
Trade Commission shall report to the 
Committee on Finance of the Senate and the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives regarding the economic impact 
on the United States of the trade agreements described 
in subsection (b). 
(b) AGREEMENTS.—The trade agreements described 
in this subsection are: 
(1) The United States-Israel Free Trade Agreement. 
(2) The United States-Canada Free Trade 
Agreement. 
(3) The North American Free Trade Agreement. 
(4) The Uruguay Round Agreements. 
(5) The Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade 
Negotiations. 
SEC. 2112. IDENTIFICATION OF SMALL BUSINESS 
ADVOCATE AT WTO. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The United States Trade 
Representative shall pursue the identification of 
a small business advocate at the World Trade 
Organization Secretariat to examine the impact 
of WTO agreements on the interests of small-
and medium-sized enterprises, address the concerns 
of small- and medium-sized enterprises, 
and recommend ways to address those interests 
in trade negotiations involving the World Trade 
Organization. 
(b) ASSISTANT TRADE REPRESENTATIVE.—The 
Assistant United States Trade Representative 
for Industry and Telecommunications shall be 
responsible for ensuring that the interests of 
small business are considered in all trade negotiations 
in accordance with the objective described 
in section 2102(a)(8). It is the sense of 
Congress that the small business functions 
should be reflected in the title of the Assistant 
United States Trade Representative assigned the 
responsibility for small business. 
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, and annually 
thereafter, the United States Trade Representative 
shall prepare and submit a report to the 
Committee on Finance of the Senate and the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives on the steps taken by the 
United States Trade Representative to pursue 
the identification of a small business advocate 
at the World Trade Organization. 
SEC. 2113. DEFINITIONS. 

In this title: 

(1) AGREEMENT ON AGRICULTURE.—The term 
‘‘Agreement on Agriculture’’ means the agreement 
referred to in section 101(d)(2) of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 
3511(d)(2)). 
(2) CORE LABOR STANDARDS.—The term ‘‘core 
labor standards’’ means— 
(A) the right of association; 
(B) the right to organize and bargain collectively; 
(C) a prohibition on the use of any form of 
forced or compulsory labor; 
(D) a minimum age for the employment of 
children; and 
(E) acceptable conditions of work with respect 
to minimum wages, hours of work, and occupational 
safety and health. 
(3) GATT 1994.—The term ‘‘GATT 1994’’ has 
the meaning given that term in section 2 of the 
Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 
3501). 
(4) ILO.—The term ‘‘ILO’’ means the International 
Labor Organization. 
(5) IMPORT SENSITIVE AGRICULTURAL PROD-
UCT.—The term ‘‘import sensitive agricultural 
product’’ means an agricultural product with 
respect to which, as a result of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements— 
(A) the rate of duty was the subject of tariff 
reductions by the United States, and pursuant 
to such Agreements, was reduced on January 1, 
1995, to a rate which was not less than 97.5 percent 
of the rate of duty that applied to such article 
on December 31, 1994; or 
(B) became subject to a tariff-rate quota on or 
after January 1, 1995. 
(6) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term ‘‘United 
States person’’ means— 
(A) a United States citizen; 
(B) a partnership, corporation, or other legal 
entity organized under the laws of the United 
States; and 
(C) a partnership, corporation, or other legal 
entity that is organized under the laws of a foreign 
country and is controlled by entities described 
in subparagraph (B) or United States 
citizens, or both. 

June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4923 

(7) URUGUAY ROUND AGREEMENTS.—The term 
‘‘Uruguay Round Agreements’’ has the meaning 
given that term in section 2(7) of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3501(7)). 
(8) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; WTO.—The 
terms ‘‘World Trade Organization’’ and ‘‘WTO’’ 
mean the organization established pursuant to 
the WTO Agreement. 
(9) WTO AGREEMENT.—The term ‘‘WTO Agreement’’ 
means the Agreement Establishing the 
World Trade Organization entered into on April 
15, 1994. 
DIVISION C—ANDEAN TRADE 

PREFERENCE ACT 

TITLE XXXI—ANDEAN TRADE 

PREFERENCE 
SEC. 3101. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This title may be cited as 
the ‘‘Andean Trade Preference Expansion Act’’. 
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the following 
findings: 
(1) Since the Andean Trade Preference Act 
was enacted in 1991, it has had a positive impact 
on United States trade with Bolivia, Colombia, 
Ecuador, and Peru. Two-way trade has doubled, 
with the United States serving as the leading 
source of imports and leading export market 
for each of the Andean beneficiary countries. 
This has resulted in increased jobs and expanded 
export opportunities in both the United 
States and the Andean region. 
(2) The Andean Trade Preference Act has 
been a key element in the United States counter-
narcotics strategy in the Andean region, promoting 
export diversification and broad-based 
economic development that provides sustainable 
economic alternatives to drug-crop production, 
strengthening the legitimate economies of Andean 
countries and creating viable alternatives to 
illicit trade in coca. 
(3) Notwithstanding the success of the Andean 
Trade Preference Act, the Andean region remains 
threatened by political and economic instability 
and fragility, vulnerable to the consequences 
of the drug war and fierce global competition 
for its legitimate trade. 
(4) The continuing instability in the Andean 
region poses a threat to the security interests of 
the United States and the world. This problem 
has been partially addressed through foreign 
aid, such as Plan Colombia, enacted by Congress 
in 2000. However, foreign aid alone is not 
sufficient. Enhancement of legitimate trade with 
the United States provides an alternative means 
for reviving and stabilizing the economies in the 
Andean region. 
(5) The Andean Trade Preference Act constitutes 
a tangible commitment by the United 
States to the promotion of prosperity, stability, 
and democracy in the beneficiary countries. 
(6) Renewal and enhancement of the Andean 
Trade Preference Act will bolster the confidence 
of domestic private enterprise and foreign investors 
in the economic prospects of the region, ensuring 
that legitimate private enterprise can be 
the engine of economic development and political 
stability in the region. 
(7) Each of the Andean beneficiary countries 
is committed to conclude negotiation of a Free 
Trade Area of the Americas by the year 2005, as 
a means of enhancing the economic security of 
the region. 
(8) Temporarily enhancing trade benefits for 
Andean beneficiaries countries will promote the 
growth of free enterprise and economic opportunity 
in these countries and serve the security 
interests of the United States, the region, and 
the world. 
SEC. 3102. TEMPORARY PROVISIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 204(b) of the Andean 
Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3203(b)) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(b) IMPORT-SENSITIVE ARTICLES.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraphs (2) 
through (5), the duty-free treatment provided 
under this title does not apply to— 

‘‘(A) textile and apparel articles which were 
not eligible articles for purposes of this title on 

January 1, 1994, as this title was in effect on 
that date; 

‘‘(B) footwear not designated at the time of 
the effective date of this title as eligible articles 
for the purpose of the generalized system of 
preferences under title V of the Trade Act of 
1974; 

‘‘(C) tuna, prepared or preserved in any manner, 
in airtight containers; 

‘‘(D) petroleum, or any product derived from 
petroleum, provided for in headings 2709 and 
2710 of the HTS; 

‘‘(E) watches and watch parts (including 
cases, bracelets, and straps), of whatever type 
including, but not limited to, mechanical, quartz 
digital, or quartz analog, if such watches or 
watch parts contain any material which is the 
product of any country with respect to which 
HTS column 2 rates of duty apply; 

‘‘(F) articles to which reduced rates of duty 
apply under subsection (c); 

‘‘(G) sugars, syrups, and sugar containing 
products subject to tariff-rate quotas; or 

‘‘(H) rum and tafia classified in subheading 
2208.40 of the HTS. 

‘‘(2) TRANSITION PERIOD TREATMENT OF CERTAIN 
TEXTILE AND APPAREL ARTICLES.— 

‘‘(A) ARTICLES COVERED.—During the transition 
period, the preferential treatment described 
in subparagraph (B) shall apply to the following 
articles imported directly into the customs 
territory of the United States from an 
ATPEA beneficiary country: 

‘‘(i) APPAREL ARTICLES ASSEMBLED FROM 
PRODUCTS OF THE UNITED STATES AND ATPEA 
BENEFICIARY COUNTRIES OR PRODUCTS NOT 
AVAILABLE IN COMMERCIAL QUANTITIES.—Apparel 
articles sewn or otherwise assembled in 1 
or more ATPEA beneficiary countries, or the 
United States, or both, exclusively from any one 
or any combination of the following: 

‘‘(I) Fabrics or fabric components formed, or 
components knit-to-shape, in the United States, 
from yarns wholly formed in the United States 
(including fabrics not formed from yarns, if 
such fabrics are classifiable under heading 5602 
or 5603 of the HTS and are formed in the United 
States), provided that apparel articles sewn or 
otherwise assembled from materials described in 
this subclause are assembled with thread formed 
in the United States. 

‘‘(II) Fabric components knit-to-shape in the 
United States from yarns wholly formed in the 
United States and fabric components knit-toshape 
in 1 or more ATPEA beneficiary countries 
from yarns wholly formed in the United States. 

‘‘(III) Fabrics or fabric components formed or 
components knit-to-shape, in 1 or more ATPEA 
beneficiary countries, from yarns wholly formed 
in 1 or more ATPEA beneficiary countries, if 
such fabrics (including fabrics not formed from 
yarns, if such fabrics are classifiable under 
heading 5602 or 5603 of the HTS and are formed 
in 1 or more ATPEA beneficiary countries) or 
components are in chief weight of llama, or alpaca. 


‘‘(IV) Fabrics or yarns that are not formed in 
the United States or in 1 or more ATPEA beneficiary 
countries, to the extent such fabrics or 
yarns are considered not to be widely available 
in commercial quantities for purposes of determining 
the eligibility of such apparel articles for 
preferential treatment under Annex 401 of the 
NAFTA. 

‘‘(ii) KNIT-TO-SHAPE APPAREL ARTICLES.—Apparel 
articles knit-to-shape (other than socks 
provided for in heading 6115 of the HTS) in 1 or 
more ATPEA beneficiary countries from yarns 
wholly formed in the United States. 

‘‘(iii) REGIONAL FABRIC.— 

‘‘(I) GENERAL RULE.—Knit apparel articles 
wholly assembled in 1 or more ATPEA beneficiary 
countries exclusively from fabric formed, 
or fabric components formed, or components 
knit-to-shape, or any combination thereof, in 1 
or more ATPEA beneficiary countries from 
yarns wholly formed in the United States, in an 
amount not exceeding the amount set forth in 
subclause (II). 

‘‘(II) LIMITATION.—The amount referred to in 
subclause (I) is 70,000,000 square meter equivalents 
during the 1-year period beginning on 
March 1, 2002, increased by 16 percent, compounded 
annually, in each succeeding 1-year 
period through February 28, 2006. 

‘‘(iv) CERTAIN OTHER APPAREL ARTICLES.— 

‘‘(I) GENERAL RULE.—Subject to subclause 
(II), any apparel article classifiable under subheading 
6212.10 of the HTS, if the article is both 
cut and sewn or otherwise assembled in the 
United States, or one or more of the ATPEA 
beneficiary countries, or both. 

‘‘(II) LIMITATION.—During the 1-year period 
beginning on March 1, 2003, and during each of 
the 2 succeeding 1-year periods, apparel articles 
described in subclause (I) of a producer or an 
entity controlling production shall be eligible for 
preferential treatment under subparagraph (B) 
only if the aggregate cost of fabric components 
formed in the United States that are used in the 
production of all such articles of that producer 
or entity that are entered during the preceding 
1-year period is at least 75 percent of the aggregate 
declared customs value of the fabric contained 
in all such articles of that producer or 
entity that are entered during the preceding 1year 
period. 

‘‘(III) DEVELOPMENT OF PROCEDURE TO ENSURE 
COMPLIANCE.—The United States Customs 
Service shall develop and implement methods 
and procedures to ensure ongoing compliance 
with the requirement set forth in subclause (II). 
If the Customs Service finds that a producer or 
an entity controlling production has not satisfied 
such requirement in a 1-year period, then 
apparel articles described in subclause (I) of 
that producer or entity shall be ineligible for 
preferential treatment under subparagraph (B) 
during any succeeding 1-year period until the 
aggregate cost of fabric components formed in 
the United States used in the production of such 
articles of that producer or entity that are entered 
during the preceding 1-year period is at 
least 85 percent of the aggregate declared customs 
value of the fabric contained in all such 
articles of that producer or entity that are entered 
during the preceding 1-year period. 

‘‘(v) APPAREL ARTICLES ASSEMBLED FROM FABRICS 
OR YARN NOT WIDELY AVAILABLE IN COMMERCIAL 
QUANTITIES.—At the request of any interested 
party, the President is authorized to 
proclaim additional fabrics and yarn as eligible 
for preferential treatment under clause (i)(IV) 
if— 

‘‘(I) the President determines that such fabrics 
or yarn cannot be supplied by the domestic industry 
in commercial quantities in a timely manner; 


‘‘(II) the President has obtained advice regarding 
the proposed action from the appropriate 
advisory committee established under section 
135 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2155) 
and the United States International Trade Commission; 


‘‘(III) within 60 days after the request, the 
President has submitted a report to the Committee 
on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Finance of 
the Senate that sets forth the action proposed to 
be proclaimed and the reasons for such actions, 
and the advice obtained under subclause (II); 

‘‘(IV) a period of 60 calendar days, beginning 
with the first day on which the President has 
met the requirements of subclause (III), has expired; 
and 

‘‘(V) the President has consulted with such 
committees regarding the proposed action during 
the period referred to in subclause (III). 

‘‘(vi) HANDLOOMED, HANDMADE, AND FOLKLORE 
ARTICLES.—A handloomed, handmade, or 
folklore article of an ATPEA beneficiary country 
identified under subparagraph (C) that is 
certified as such by the competent authority of 
such beneficiary country. 

‘‘(vii) SPECIAL RULES.— 

‘‘(I) EXCEPTION FOR FINDINGS AND TRIMMINGS.—(
aa) An article otherwise eligible for 


S4924 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

preferential treatment under this paragraph 
shall not be ineligible for such treatment because 
the article contains findings or trimmings 
of foreign origin, if such findings and trimmings 
do not exceed 25 percent of the cost of the components 
of the assembled product. Examples of 
findings and trimmings are sewing thread, 
hooks and eyes, snaps, buttons, ‘bow buds’, decorative 
lace, trim, elastic strips, zippers, including 
zipper tapes and labels, and other similar 
products. Elastic strips are considered findings 
or trimmings only if they are each less than 1 
inch in width and are used in the production of 
brassieres. 

‘‘(bb) In the case of an article described in 
clause (i)(I) of this subparagraph, sewing thread 
shall not be treated as findings or trimmings 
under this subclause. 

‘‘(II) CERTAIN INTERLININGS.—(aa) An article 
otherwise eligible for preferential treatment 
under this paragraph shall not be ineligible for 
such treatment because the article contains certain 
interlinings of foreign origin, if the value of 
such interlinings (and any findings and trimmings) 
does not exceed 25 percent of the cost of 
the components of the assembled article. 

‘‘(bb) Interlinings eligible for the treatment 
described in division (aa) include only a chest 
type plate, ‘hymo’ piece, or ‘sleeve header’, of 
woven or weft-inserted warp knit construction 
and of coarse animal hair or man-made filaments. 


‘‘(cc) The treatment described in this sub-
clause shall terminate if the President makes a 
determination that United States manufacturers 
are producing such interlinings in the United 
States in commercial quantities. 

‘‘(III) DE MINIMIS RULE.—An article that 
would otherwise be ineligible for preferential 
treatment under this paragraph because the article 
contains yarns not wholly formed in the 
United States or in 1 or more ATPEA beneficiary 
countries shall not be ineligible for such 
treatment if the total weight of all such yarns is 
not more than 7 percent of the total weight of 
the good. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, 
an apparel article containing elastomeric 
yarns shall be eligible for preferential treatment 
under this paragraph only if such yarns are 
wholly formed in the United States. 

‘‘(IV) SPECIAL ORIGIN RULE.—An article otherwise 
eligible for preferential treatment under 
clause (i) of this subparagraph shall not be ineligible 
for such treatment because the article 
contains nylon filament yarn (other than elastomeric 
yarn) that is classifiable under subheading 
5402.10.30, 5402.10.60, 5402.31.30, 
5402.31.60, 5402.32.30, 5402.32.60, 5402.41.10, 
5402.41.90, 5402.51.00, or 5402.61.00 of the HTS 
duty-free from a country that is a party to an 
agreement with the United States establishing a 
free trade area, which entered into force before 
January 1, 1995. 

‘‘(V) CLARIFICATION OF CERTAIN KNIT APPAREL 
ARTICLES.—Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, an article otherwise eligible for 
preferential treatment under clause (iii)(I) of 
this subparagraph, shall not be ineligible for 
such treatment because the article, or a component 
thereof, contains fabric formed in the 
United States from yarns wholly formed in the 
United States. 

‘‘(viii) TEXTILE LUGGAGE.—Textile luggage— 

‘‘(I) assembled in an ATPEA beneficiary 
country from fabric wholly formed and cut in 
the United States, from yarns wholly formed in 
the United States, that is entered under subheading 
9802.00.80 of the HTS; or 

‘‘(II) assembled from fabric cut in an ATPEA 
beneficiary country from fabric wholly formed 
in the United States from yarns wholly formed 
in the United States. 

‘‘(B) PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT.—Except as 
provided in subparagraph (E), during the transition 
period, the articles to which subparagraph 
(A) applies shall enter the United States 
free of duty and free of any quantitative restrictions, 
limitations, or consultation levels. 

‘‘(C) HANDLOOMED, HANDMADE, AND FOLKLORE 
ARTICLES.—For purposes of subparagraph 
(A)(vi), the President shall consult with representatives 
of the ATPEA beneficiary countries 
concerned for the purpose of identifying particular 
textile and apparel goods that are mutually 
agreed upon as being handloomed, handmade, 
or folklore goods of a kind described in 
section 2.3(a), (b), or (c) of the Annex or Appendix 
3.1.B.11 of the Annex. 

‘‘(D) PENALTIES FOR TRANSSHIPMENTS.— 

‘‘(i) PENALTIES FOR EXPORTERS.—If the President 
determines, based on sufficient evidence, 
that an exporter has engaged in transshipment 
with respect to textile or apparel articles from 
an ATPEA beneficiary country, then the President 
shall deny all benefits under this title to 
such exporter, and any successor of such exporter, 
for a period of 2 years. 

‘‘(ii) PENALTIES FOR COUNTRIES.—Whenever 
the President finds, based on sufficient evidence, 
that transshipment has occurred, the 
President shall request that the ATPEA beneficiary 
country or countries through whose territory 
the transshipment has occurred take all 
necessary and appropriate actions to prevent 
such transshipment. If the President determines 
that a country is not taking such actions, the 
President shall reduce the quantities of textile 
and apparel articles that may be imported into 
the United States from such country by the 
quantity of the transshipped articles multiplied 
by 3, to the extent consistent with the obligations 
of the United States under the WTO. 

‘‘(iii) TRANSSHIPMENT DESCRIBED.—Transshipment 
within the meaning of this subparagraph 
has occurred when preferential treatment 
under subparagraph (B) has been claimed for a 
textile or apparel article on the basis of material 
false information concerning the country of origin, 
manufacture, processing, or assembly of the 
article or any of its components. For purposes of 
this clause, false information is material if disclosure 
of the true information would mean or 
would have meant that the article is or was ineligible 
for preferential treatment under subparagraph 
(B). 

‘‘(E) BILATERAL EMERGENCY ACTIONS.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The President may take bilateral 
emergency tariff actions of a kind described 
in section 4 of the Annex with respect to 
any apparel article imported from an ATPEA 
beneficiary country if the application of tariff 
treatment under subparagraph (B) to such article 
results in conditions that would be cause for 
the taking of such actions under such section 4 
with respect to a like article described in the 
same 8-digit subheading of the HTS that is imported 
from Mexico. 

‘‘(ii) RULES RELATING TO BILATERAL EMERGENCY 
ACTION.—For purposes of applying bilateral 
emergency action under this 
subparagraph— 

‘‘(I) the requirements of paragraph (5) of section 
4 of the Annex (relating to providing compensation) 
shall not apply; 

‘‘(II) the term ‘transition period’ in section 4 
of the Annex shall have the meaning given that 
term in paragraph (5)(D) of this subsection; and 

‘‘(III) the requirements to consult specified in 
section 4 of the Annex shall be treated as satisfied 
if the President requests consultations with 
the ATPEA beneficiary country in question and 
the country does not agree to consult within the 
time period specified under section 4. 

‘‘(3) TRANSITION PERIOD TREATMENT OF CERTAIN 
OTHER ARTICLES ORIGINATING IN BENEFICIARY 
COUNTRIES.— 

‘‘(A) EQUIVALENT TARIFF TREATMENT.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clauses (ii) and 
(iii), the tariff treatment accorded at any time 
during the transition period to any article referred 
to in any of subparagraphs (B), (D) 
through (F), or (H) of paragraph (1) that is an 
ATPEA originating good, imported directly into 
the customs territory of the United States from 
an ATPEA beneficiary country, shall be identical 
to the tariff treatment that is accorded at 

such time under Annex 302.2 of the NAFTA to 
an article described in the same 8-digit subheading 
of the HTS that is a good of Mexico 
and is imported into the United States. 

‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION.—Clause (i) does not apply to 
any article accorded duty-free treatment under 

U.S. Note 2(b) to subchapter II of chapter 98 of 
the HTS. 

‘‘(iii) CERTAIN FOOTWEAR.— 

‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Duties on any article described 
in subclause (II), that is an ATPEA originating 
good imported directly into the customs 
territory of the United States from an ATPEA 
beneficiary country, shall be reduced by 1/15 a 
year beginning on the date of enactment of the 
Andean Trade Preference Expansion Act. 

‘‘(II) ARTICLES DESCRIBED.—An article described 
in this subclause means an article described 
in subheading 6401.10.00, 6401.91.00, 
6401.92.90, 6401.99.30, 6401.99.60, 6401.99.90, 
6402.30.50, 6402.30.70, 6402.30.80, 6402.91.50, 
6402.91.80, 6402.91.90, 6402.99.20, 6402.99.30, 
6402.99.80, 6402.99.90, 6403.91.60, 6404.11.50, 
6404.11.60, 6404.11.70, 6404.11.80, 6404.11.90, 
6404.19.20, 6404.19.35, 6404.19.50, or 6404.19.70 of 
the HTS. 

‘‘(B) RELATIONSHIP TO SUBSECTION (C) DUTY 
REDUCTIONS.—If at any time during the transition 
period the rate of duty that would (but for 
action taken under subparagraph (A)(i) in regard 
to such period) apply with respect to any 
article under subsection (c) is a rate of duty 
that is lower than the rate of duty resulting 
from such action, then such lower rate of duty 
shall be applied for the purposes of implementing 
such action. 

‘‘(C) SPECIAL RULE FOR SUGARS, SYRUPS, AND 
SUGAR CONTAINING PRODUCTS.—Duty-free treatment 
under this Act shall not be extended to 
sugars, syrups, and sugar-containing products 
subject to over-quota duty rates under applicable 
tariff-rate quotas. 

‘‘(D) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN TUNA PRODUCTS.— 


‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The President may proclaim 
duty-free treatment under this Act for tuna that 
is harvested by United States vessels or ATPEA 
beneficiary country vessels, and is prepared or 
preserved in any manner, in airtight containers 
in an ATPEA beneficiary country. Such duty-
free treatment may be proclaimed in any calendar 
year for a quantity of such tuna that 
does not exceed 20 percent of the domestic 
United States tuna pack in the preceding calendar 
year. As used in the preceding sentence, 
the term ‘tuna pack’ means tuna pack as defined 
by the National Marine Fisheries Service 
of the United States Department of Commerce 
for purposes of subheading 1604.14.20 of the HTS 
as in effect on the date of enactment of the Andean 
Trade Preference Expansion Act. 

‘‘(ii) UNITED STATES VESSEL.—For purposes of 
this subparagraph, a ‘United States vessel’ is a 
vessel having a certificate of documentation 
with a fishery endorsement under chapter 121 of 
title 46, United States Code. 

‘‘(iii) ATPEA VESSEL.—For purposes of this 
subparagraph, an ‘ATPEA vessel’ is a vessel— 

‘‘(I) which is registered or recorded in an 
ATPEA beneficiary country; 

‘‘(II) which sails under the flag of an ATPEA 
beneficiary country; 

‘‘(III) which is at least 75 percent owned by 
nationals of an ATPEA beneficiary country or 
by a company having its principal place of business 
in an ATPEA beneficiary country, of 
which the manager or managers, chairman of 
the board of directors or of the supervisory 
board, and the majority of the members of such 
boards are nationals of an ATPEA beneficiary 
country and of which, in the case of a company, 
at least 50 percent of the capital is owned by an 
ATPEA beneficiary country or by public bodies 
or nationals of an ATPEA beneficiary country; 

‘‘(IV) of which the master and officers are nationals 
of an ATPEA beneficiary country; and 
‘‘(V) of which at least 75 percent of the crew 
are nationals of an ATPEA beneficiary country. 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4925 

‘‘(4) CUSTOMS PROCEDURES.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.— 

‘‘(i) REGULATIONS.—Any importer that claims 
preferential treatment under paragraph (2) or 

(3) shall comply with customs procedures similar 
in all material respects to the requirements of 
Article 502(1) of the NAFTA as implemented 
pursuant to United States law, in accordance 
with regulations promulgated by the Secretary 
of the Treasury. 
‘‘(ii) DETERMINATION.— 
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—In order to qualify for the 
preferential treatment under paragraph (2) or 

(3) and for a Certificate of Origin to be valid 
with respect to any article for which such treatment 
is claimed, there shall be in effect a determination 
by the President that each country described 
in subclause (II)— 
‘‘(aa) has implemented and follows; or 

‘‘(bb) is making substantial progress toward 
implementing and following, procedures and requirements 
similar in all material respects to the 
relevant procedures and requirements under 
chapter 5 of the NAFTA. 

‘‘(II) COUNTRY DESCRIBED.—A country is described 
in this subclause if it is an ATPEA beneficiary 
country— 

‘‘(aa) from which the article is exported; or 

‘‘(bb) in which materials used in the production 
of the article originate or in which the article 
or such materials undergo production that 
contributes to a claim that the article is eligible 
for preferential treatment under paragraph (2) 
or (3). 

‘‘(B) CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN.—The Certificate 
of Origin that otherwise would be required pursuant 
to the provisions of subparagraph (A) 
shall not be required in the case of an article imported 
under paragraph (2) or (3) if such Certificate 
of Origin would not be required under Article 
503 of the NAFTA (as implemented pursuant 
to United States law), if the article were imported 
from Mexico. 

‘‘(C) REPORT BY USTR ON COOPERATION OF 
OTHER COUNTRIES CONCERNING CIRCUMVENTION.—
The United States Commissioner of Customs 
shall conduct a study analyzing the extent 
to which each ATPEA beneficiary country— 

‘‘(i) has cooperated fully with the United 
States, consistent with its domestic laws and 
procedures, in instances of circumvention or alleged 
circumvention of existing quotas on imports 
of textile and apparel goods, to establish 
necessary relevant facts in the places of import, 
export, and, where applicable, transshipment, 
including investigation of circumvention practices, 
exchanges of documents, correspondence, 
reports, and other relevant information, to the 
extent such information is available; 

‘‘(ii) has taken appropriate measures, consistent 
with its domestic laws and procedures, 
against exporters and importers involved in instances 
of false declaration concerning fiber 
content, quantities, description, classification, 
or origin of textile and apparel goods; and 

‘‘(iii) has penalized the individuals and entities 
involved in any such circumvention, consistent 
with its domestic laws and procedures, 
and has worked closely to seek the cooperation 
of any third country to prevent such circumvention 
from taking place in that third country. 
The Trade Representative shall submit to Congress, 
not later than October 1, 2002, a report on 
the study conducted under this subparagraph. 

‘‘(5) DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES.—For 
purposes of this subsection— 

‘‘(A) ANNEX.—The term ‘the Annex’ means 
Annex 300–B of the NAFTA. 

‘‘(B) ATPEA BENEFICIARY COUNTRY.—The 
term ‘ATPEA beneficiary country’ means any 
‘beneficiary country’, as defined in section 
203(a)(1) of this title, which the President designates 
as an ATPEA beneficiary country, taking 
into account the criteria contained in subsections 
(c) and (d) of section 203 and other appropriate 
criteria, including the following: 

‘‘(i) Whether the beneficiary country has demonstrated 
a commitment to— 

‘‘(I) undertake its obligations under the WTO, 
including those agreements listed in section 
101(d) of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act, 
on or ahead of schedule; and 

‘‘(II) participate in negotiations toward the 
completion of the FTAA or another free trade 
agreement. 

‘‘(ii) The extent to which the country provides 
protection of intellectual property rights consistent 
with or greater than the protection afforded 
under the Agreement on Trade-Related 
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights described 
in section 101(d)(15) of the Uruguay Round 
Agreements Act. 

‘‘(iii) The extent to which the country provides 
internationally recognized worker rights, 
including— 

‘‘(I) the right of association; 

‘‘(II) the right to organize and bargain collectively; 


‘‘(III) a prohibition on the use of any form of 
forced or compulsory labor; 

‘‘(IV) a minimum age for the employment of 
children; and 

‘‘(V) acceptable conditions of work with respect 
to minimum wages, hours of work, and occupational 
safety and health. 

‘‘(iv) Whether the country has implemented its 
commitments to eliminate the worst forms of 
child labor, as defined in section 507(6) of the 
Trade Act of 1974. 

‘‘(v) The extent to which the country has met 
the counter-narcotics certification criteria set 
forth in section 490 of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291j) for eligibility for 
United States assistance. 

‘‘(vi) The extent to which the country has 
taken steps to become a party to and implements 
the Inter-American Convention Against Corruption. 


‘‘(vii) The extent to which the country— 

‘‘(I) applies transparent, nondiscriminatory, 
and competitive procedures in government procurement 
equivalent to those contained in the 
Agreement on Government Procurement described 
in section 101(d)(17) of the Uruguay 
Round Agreements Act; and 

‘‘(II) contributes to efforts in international 
fora to develop and implement international 
rules in transparency in government procurement. 


‘‘(viii) The extent to which the country has 
taken steps to support the efforts of the United 
States to combat terrorism. 

‘‘(C) ATPEA ORIGINATING GOOD.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘ATPEA originating 
good’ means a good that meets the rules 
of origin for a good set forth in chapter 4 of the 
NAFTA as implemented pursuant to United 
States law. 

‘‘(ii) APPLICATION OF CHAPTER 4.—In applying 
chapter 4 of the NAFTA with respect to an 
ATPEA beneficiary country for purposes of this 
subsection— 

‘‘(I) no country other than the United States 
and an ATPEA beneficiary country may be 
treated as being a party to the NAFTA; 

‘‘(II) any reference to trade between the 
United States and Mexico shall be deemed to 
refer to trade between the United States and an 
ATPEA beneficiary country; 

‘‘(III) any reference to a party shall be 
deemed to refer to an ATPEA beneficiary country 
or the United States; and 

‘‘(IV) any reference to parties shall be deemed 
to refer to any combination of ATPEA beneficiary 
countries or to the United States and one 
or more ATPEA beneficiary countries (or any 
combination thereof). 

‘‘(D) TRANSITION PERIOD.—The term ‘transition 
period’ means, with respect to an ATPEA 
beneficiary country, the period that begins on 
the date of enactment, and ends on the earlier 
of— 

‘‘(i) February 28, 2006; or 

‘‘(ii) the date on which the FTAA or another 
free trade agreement that makes substantial 
progress in achieving the negotiating objectives 

set forth in section 108(b)(5) of Public Law 103– 
182 (19 U.S.C. 3317(b)(5)) enters into force with 
respect to the United States and the ATPEA 
beneficiary country. 

‘‘(E) ATPEA.—The term ‘ATPEA’ means the 
Andean Trade Preference Expansion Act. 

‘‘(F) FTAA.—The term ‘FTAA’ means the 
Free Trade Area of the Americas.’’. 

(b) DETERMINATION REGARDING RETENTION OF 
DESIGNATION.—Section 203(e) of the Andean 
Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3202(e)) is 
amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1)— 
(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and 
(B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively; 
(B) by inserting ‘‘(A)’’ after ‘‘(1)’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(B) The President may, after the requirements 
of paragraph (2) have been met— 
‘‘(i) withdraw or suspend the designation of 
any country as an ATPEA beneficiary country; 
or 

‘‘(ii) withdraw, suspend, or limit the application 
of preferential treatment under section 
204(b) (2) and (3) to any article of any country; 
if, after such designation, the President determines 
that, as a result of changed circumstances, 
the performance of such country is 
not satisfactory under the criteria set forth in 
section 204(b)(5)(B).’’; and 

(2) by adding after paragraph (2) the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(3) If preferential treatment under section 
204(b) (2) and (3) is withdrawn, suspended, or 
limited with respect to an ATPEA beneficiary 
country, such country shall not be deemed to be 
a ‘party’ for the purposes of applying section 
204(b)(5)(C) to imports of articles for which preferential 
treatment has been withdrawn, suspended, 
or limited with respect to such country.’’. 


(c) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Section 203(f) 
of the Andean Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 
3202(f)) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(f ) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December 31, 
2002, and every 2 years thereafter during the period 
this title is in effect, the United States 
Trade Representative shall submit to Congress a 
report regarding the operation of this title, 
including— 

‘‘(A) with respect to subsections (c) and (d), 
the results of a general review of beneficiary 
countries based on the considerations described 
in such subsections; and 

‘‘(B) the performance of each beneficiary 
country or ATPEA beneficiary country, as the 
case may be, under the criteria set forth in section 
204(b)(5)(B). 

‘‘(2) PUBLIC COMMENT.—Before submitting the 
report described in paragraph (1), the United 
States Trade Representative shall publish a notice 
in the Federal Register requesting public 
comments on whether beneficiary countries are 
meeting the criteria listed in section 
204(b)(5)(B).’’. 

(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.— 
(A) Section 202 of the Andean Trade Preference 
Act (19 U.S.C. 3201) is amended by inserting 
‘‘(or other preferential treatment)’’ after 
‘‘treatment’’. 
(B) Section 204(a)(1) of the Andean Trade 
Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3203(a)(1)) is amended 
by inserting ‘‘(or otherwise provided for)’’ after 
‘‘eligibility’’. 
(C) Section 204(a)(1) of the Andean Trade 
Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3203(a)(1)) is amended 
by inserting ‘‘(or preferential treatment)’’ after 
‘‘duty-free treatment’’. 
(2) DEFINITIONS.—Section 203(a) of the Andean 
Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3202(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraphs: 
‘‘(4) The term ‘‘NAFTA’’ means the North 
American Free Trade Agreement entered into between 
the United States, Mexico, and Canada 
on December 17, 1992. 


S4926 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

‘‘(5) The terms ‘WTO’ and ‘WTO member’ 
have the meanings given those terms in section 
2 of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 
U.S.C. 3501).’’. 

(e) PETITIONS FOR REVIEW.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the President 
shall promulgate regulations regarding the review 
of eligibility of articles and countries under 
the Andean Trade Preference Act, consistent 
with section 203(e) of such Act, as amended by 
this title. 
(2) CONTENT OF REGULATIONS.—The regulations 
shall be similar to the regulations regarding 
eligibility under the Generalized System of 
Preferences with respect to the timetable for reviews 
and content, and shall include procedures 
for requesting withdrawal, suspension, or limitations 
of preferential duty treatment under the 
Act, conducting reviews of such requests, and 
implementing the results of the reviews. 
SEC. 3103. TERMINATION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 208(b) of the Andean 
Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3206(b)) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(b) TERMINATION OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT.—
No preferential duty treatment extended 
to beneficiary countries under this Act shall remain 
in effect after February 28, 2006.’’. 

(b) RETROACTIVE APPLICATION FOR CERTAIN 
LIQUIDATIONS AND RELIQUIDATIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section 514 
of the Tariff Act of 1930 or any other provision 
of law, and subject to paragraph (3), the entry— 
(A) of any article to which duty-free treatment 
(or preferential treatment) under the Andean 
Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3201 et 
seq.) would have applied if the entry had been 
made on December 4, 2001, 
(B) that was made after December 4, 2001, and 
before the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
(C) to which duty-free treatment (or preferential 
treatment) under the Andean Trade 
Preference Act did not apply, 
shall be liquidated or reliquidated as if such 
duty-free treatment (or preferential treatment) 
applied, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
refund any duty paid with respect to such 
entry. 
(2) ENTRY.—As used in this subsection, the 
term ‘‘entry’’ includes a withdrawal from warehouse 
for consumption. 
(3) REQUESTS.—Liquidation or reliquidation 
may be made under paragraph (1) with respect 
to an entry only if a request therefor is filed 
with the Customs Service, within 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, that contains 
sufficient information to enable the Customs 
Service— 
(A) to locate the entry; or 
(B) to reconstruct the entry if it cannot be located. 
TITLE XXXII—MISCELLANEOUS TRADE 
BENEFITS 
SEC. 3201. WOOL PROVISIONS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be cited 
as the ‘‘Wool Manufacturer Payment Clarification 
and Technical Corrections Act’’. 
(b) CLARIFICATION OF TEMPORARY DUTY SUS-
PENSION.—Heading 9902.51.13 of the Harmonized 
Tariff Schedule of the United States is amended 
by inserting ‘‘average’’ before ‘‘diameters’’. 
(c) PAYMENTS TO MANUFACTURERS OF CERTAIN 
WOOL PRODUCTS.— 
(1) PAYMENTS.—Section 505 of the Trade and 
Development Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–200; 
114 Stat. 303) is amended as follows: 
(A) Subsection (a) is amended— 
(i) by striking ‘‘In each of the calendar years’’ 
and inserting ‘‘For each of the calendar years’’; 
and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘for a refund of duties’’ and 
all that follows through the end of the subsection 
and inserting ‘‘for a payment equal to 
an amount determined pursuant to subsection 
(d)(1).’’. 
(B) Subsection (b) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(b) WOOL YARN.— 

‘‘(1) IMPORTING MANUFACTURERS.—For each of 
the calendar years 2000, 2001, and 2002, a manufacturer 
of worsted wool fabrics who imports 
wool yarn of the kind described in heading 
9902.51.13 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of 
the United States shall be eligible for a payment 
equal to an amount determined pursuant to subsection 
(d)(2). 

‘‘(2) NONIMPORTING MANUFACTURERS.—For 
each of the calendar years 2001 and 2002, any 
other manufacturer of worsted wool fabrics of 
imported wool yarn of the kind described in 
heading 9902.51.13 of the Harmonized Tariff 
Schedule of the United States shall be eligible 
for a payment equal to an amount determined 
pursuant to subsection (d)(2).’’. 

(C) Subsection (c) is amended to read as follows: 


‘‘(c) WOOL FIBER AND WOOL TOP.— 

‘‘(1) IMPORTING MANUFACTURERS.—For each of 
the calendar years 2000, 2001, and 2002, a manufacturer 
of wool yarn or wool fabric who imports 
wool fiber or wool top of the kind described 
in heading 9902.51.14 of the Harmonized 
Tariff Schedule of the United States shall be eligible 
for a payment equal to an amount determined 
pursuant to subsection (d)(3). 

‘‘(2) NONIMPORTING MANUFACTURERS.—For 
each of the calendar years 2001 and 2002, any 
other manufacturer of wool yarn or wool fabric 
of imported wool fiber or wool top of the kind 
described in heading 9902.51.14 of the Harmonized 
Tariff Schedule of the United States 
shall be eligible for a payment equal to an 
amount determined pursuant to subsection 
(d)(3).’’. 

(D) Section 505 is further amended by striking 
subsection (d) and inserting the following new 
subsections: 
‘‘(d) AMOUNT OF ANNUAL PAYMENTS TO MANUFACTURERS.— 


‘‘(1) MANUFACTURERS OF MEN’S SUITS, ETC. OF 
IMPORTED WORSTED WOOL FABRICS.— 

‘‘(A) ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE MORE THAN $5,000.— 
Each annual payment to manufacturers described 
in subsection (a) who, according to the 
records of the Customs Service as of September 
11, 2001, are eligible to receive more than $5,000 
for each of the calendar years 2000, 2001, and 
2002, shall be in an amount equal to one-third of 
the amount determined by multiplying 
$30,124,000 by a fraction— 

‘‘(i) the numerator of which is the amount attributable 
to the duties paid on eligible wool 
products imported in calendar year 1999 by the 
manufacturer making the claim, and 

‘‘(ii) the denominator of which is the total 
amount attributable to the duties paid on eligible 
wool products imported in calendar year 
1999 by all the manufacturers described in subsection 
(a) who, according to the records of the 
Customs Service as of September 11, 2001, are eligible 
to receive more than $5,000 for each such 
calendar year under this section as it was in effect 
on that date. 

‘‘(B) ELIGIBLE WOOL PRODUCTS.—For purposes 
of subparagraph (A), the term ‘eligible wool 
products’ refers to imported worsted wool fabrics 
described in subsection (a). 

‘‘(C) OTHERS.—All manufacturers described in 
subsection (a), other than the manufacturers to 
which subparagraph (A) applies, shall each receive 
an annual payment in an amount equal to 
one-third of the amount determined by dividing 
$1,665,000 by the number of all such other manufacturers. 


‘‘(2) MANUFACTURERS OF WORSTED WOOL FABRICS 
OF IMPORTED WOOL YARN.— 

‘‘(A) IMPORTING MANUFACTURERS.—Each annual 
payment to an importing manufacturer described 
in subsection (b)(1) shall be in an 
amount equal to one-third of the amount determined 
by multiplying $2,202,000 by a fraction— 

‘‘(i) the numerator of which is the amount attributable 
to the duties paid on eligible wool 
products imported in calendar year 1999 by the 
importing manufacturer making the claim, and 

‘‘(ii) the denominator of which is the total 
amount attributable to the duties paid on eligible 
wool products imported in calendar year 
1999 by all the importing manufacturers described 
in subsection (b)(1). 

‘‘(B) ELIGIBLE WOOL PRODUCTS.—For purposes 
of subparagraph (A), the term ‘eligible wool 
products’ refers to imported wool yarn described 
in subsection (b)(1). 

‘‘(C) NONIMPORTING MANUFACTURERS.—Each 
annual payment to a nonimporting manufacturer 
described in subsection (b)(2) shall be in 
an amount equal to one-half of the amount determined 
by multiplying $141,000 by a fraction— 

‘‘(i) the numerator of which is the amount attributable 
to the purchases of imported eligible 
wool products in calendar year 1999 by the non-
importing manufacturer making the claim, and 

‘‘(ii) the denominator of which is the total 
amount attributable to the purchases of imported 
eligible wool products in calendar year 
1999 by all the nonimporting manufacturers described 
in subsection (b)(2). 

‘‘(3) MANUFACTURERS OF WOOL YARN OR WOOL 
FABRIC OF IMPORTED WOOL FIBER OR WOOL 
TOP.— 

‘‘(A) IMPORTING MANUFACTURERS.—Each annual 
payment to an importing manufacturer described 
in subsection (c)(1) shall be in an 
amount equal to one-third of the amount determined 
by multiplying $1,522,000 by a fraction— 

‘‘(i) the numerator of which is the amount attributable 
to the duties paid on eligible wool 
products imported in calendar year 1999 by the 
importing manufacturer making the claim, and 

‘‘(ii) the denominator of which is the total 
amount attributable to the duties paid on eligible 
wool products imported in calendar year 
1999 by all the importing manufacturers described 
in subsection (c)(1). 

‘‘(B) ELIGIBLE WOOL PRODUCTS.—For purposes 
of subparagraph (A), the term ‘eligible wool 
products’ refers to imported wool fiber or wool 
top described in subsection (c)(1). 

‘‘(C) NONIMPORTING MANUFACTURERS.—Each 
annual payment to a nonimporting manufacturer 
described in subsection (c)(2) shall be in 
an amount equal to one-half of the amount determined 
by multiplying $597,000 by a fraction— 

‘‘(i) the numerator of which is the amount attributable 
to the purchases of imported eligible 
wool products in calendar year 1999 by the non-
importing manufacturer making the claim, and 

‘‘(ii) the denominator of which is the amount 
attributable to the purchases of imported eligible 
wool products in calendar year 1999 by all the 
nonimporting manufacturers described in subsection 
(c)(2). 

‘‘(4) LETTERS OF INTENT.—Except for the non-
importing manufacturers described in subsections 
(b)(2) and (c)(2) who may make claims 
under this section by virtue of the enactment of 
the Wool Manufacturer Payment Clarification 
and Technical Corrections Act, only manufacturers 
who, according to the records of the Customs 
Service, filed with the Customs Service before 
September 11, 2001, letters of intent to establish 
eligibility to be claimants are eligible to 
make a claim for a payment under this section. 

‘‘(5) AMOUNT ATTRIBUTABLE TO PURCHASES BY 
NONIMPORTING MANUFACTURERS.— 

‘‘(A) AMOUNT ATTRIBUTABLE.—For purposes 
of paragraphs (2)(C) and (3)(C), the amount attributable 
to the purchases of imported eligible 
wool products in calendar year 1999 by a non-
importing manufacturer shall be the amount the 
nonimporting manufacturer paid for eligible 
wool products in calendar year 1999, as evidenced 
by invoices. The nonimporting manufacturer 
shall make such calculation and submit 
the resulting amount to the Customs Service, 
within 45 days after the date of enactment of 
the Wool Manufacturer Payment Clarification 
and Technical Corrections Act, in a signed affidavit 
that attests that the information contained 
therein is true and accurate to the best of 
the affiant’s belief and knowledge. The non-
importing manufacturer shall retain the records 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4927 

upon which the calculation is based for a period 
of five years beginning on the date the affidavit 
is submitted to the Customs Service. 

‘‘(B) ELIGIBLE WOOL PRODUCT.—For purposes 
of subparagraph (A)— 

‘‘(i) the eligible wool product for nonimporting 
manufacturers of worsted wool fabrics is wool 
yarn of the kind described in heading 9902.51.13 
of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United 
States purchased in calendar year 1999; and 

‘‘(ii) the eligible wool products for non-
importing manufacturers of wool yarn or wool 
fabric are wool fiber or wool top of the kind described 
in heading 9902.51.14 of such Schedule 
purchased in calendar year 1999. 

‘‘(6) AMOUNT ATTRIBUTABLE TO DUTIES PAID.— 
For purposes of paragraphs (1), (2)(A), and 
(3)(A), the amount attributable to the duties 
paid by a manufacturer shall be the amount 
shown on the records of the Customs Service as 
of September 11, 2001, under this section as then 
in effect. 

‘‘(7) SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS; REALLOCATIONS.— 


‘‘(A) SCHEDULE.—Of the payments described 
in paragraphs (1), (2)(A), and (3)(A), the Customs 
Service shall make the first and second installments 
on or before the date that is 45 days 
after the date of enactment of the Wool Manufacturer 
Payment Clarification and Technical 
Corrections Act, and the third installment on or 
before April 15, 2003. Of the payments described 
in paragraphs (2)(C) and (3)(C), the Customs 
Service shall make the first installment on or before 
the date that is 45 days after the date of enactment 
of the Wool Manufacturer Payment 
Clarification and Technical Corrections Act, 
and the second installment on or before April 15, 
2003. 

‘‘(B) REALLOCATIONS.—In the event that a 
manufacturer that would have received payment 
under subparagraph (A) or (C) of paragraph 
(1), (2), or (3) ceases to be qualified for 
such payment as such a manufacturer, the 
amounts otherwise payable to the remaining 
manufacturers under such subparagraph shall 
be increased on a pro rata basis by the amount 
of the payment such manufacturer would have 
received. 

‘‘(8) REFERENCE.—For purposes of paragraphs 
(1)(A) and (6), the ‘records of the Customs Service 
as of September 11, 2001’ are the records of 
the Wool Duty Unit of the Customs Service on 
September 11, 2001, as adjusted by the Customs 
Service to the extent necessary to carry out this 
section. The amounts so adjusted are not subject 
to administrative or judicial review. 

‘‘(e) AFFIDAVITS BY MANUFACTURERS.— 

‘‘(1) AFFIDAVIT REQUIRED.—A manufacturer 
may not receive a payment under this section 
for calendar year 2000, 2001, or 2002, as the case 
may be, unless that manufacturer has submitted 
to the Customs Service for that calendar year a 
signed affidavit that attests that, during that 
calendar year, the affiant was a manufacturer 
in the United States described in subsection (a), 
(b), or (c). 

‘‘(2) TIMING.—An affidavit under paragraph 

(1) shall be valid— 
‘‘(A) in the case of a manufacturer described 
in paragraph (1), (2)(A), or (3)(A) of subsection 

(d) filing a claim for a payment for calendar 
year 2000 or 2001, or both, only if the affidavit 
is postmarked no later than 15 days after the 
date of enactment of the Wool Manufacturer 
Payment Clarification and Technical Corrections 
Act; and 
‘‘(B) in the case of a claim for a payment for 
calendar year 2002, only if the affidavit is postmarked 
no later than March 1, 2003. 

‘‘(f) OFFSETS.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this section, any amount otherwise 
payable under subsection (d) to a manufacturer 
in calendar year 2001 and, where applicable, in 
calendar years 2002 and 2003, shall be reduced 
by the amount of any payment received by that 
manufacturer under this section before the enactment 
of the Wool Manufacturer Payment 
Clarification and Technical Corrections Act. 

‘‘(g) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section, 
the manufacturer is the party that owns— 

‘‘(1) imported worsted wool fabric, of the kind 
described in heading 9902.51.11 or 9902.51.12 of 
the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United 
States, at the time the fabric is cut and sewn in 
the United States into men’s or boys’ suits, suit-
type jackets, or trousers; 

‘‘(2) imported wool yarn, of the kind described 
in heading 9902.51.13 of such Schedule, at the 
time the yarn is processed in the United States 
into worsted wool fabric; or 

‘‘(3) imported wool fiber or wool top, of the 
kind described in heading 9902.51.14 of such 
Schedule, at the time the wool fiber or wool top 
is processed in the United States into wool 
yarn.’’. 

(2) FUNDING.—There is authorized to be appropriated 
and is appropriated, out of amounts 
in the General Fund of the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $36,251,000 to carry out the 
amendments made by paragraph (1). 
SEC. 3202. DUTY SUSPENSION ON WOOL. 

(a) EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY DUTY REDUCTIONS.— 
(1) HEADING 9902.51.11.— Heading 9902.51.11 of 
the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United 
States is amended by striking ‘‘2003’’ and inserting 
‘‘2005’’. 
(2) HEADING 9902.51.12.— Heading 9902.51.12 of 
the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United 
States is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘2003’’ and inserting ‘‘2005’’; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘6%’’ and inserting ‘‘Free’’. 
(3) HEADING 9902.51.13.—Heading 9902.51.13 of 
the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United 
States is amended by striking ‘‘2003’’ and inserting 
‘‘2005’’. 

(4) HEADING 9902.51.14.—Heading 9902.51.14 of 
the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United 
States is amended by striking ‘‘2003’’ and inserting 
‘‘2005’’. 

(b) LIMITATION ON QUANTITY OF IMPORTS.— 
(1) NOTE 15.—U.S. Note 15 to subchapter II of 
chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of 
the United States is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘from January 1 to December 
31 of each year, inclusive’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘, or such other’’ and inserting 
the following: ‘‘in calendar year 2001, 3,500,000 
square meter equivalents in calendar year 2002, 
and 4,500,000 square meter equivalents in calendar 
year 2003 and each calendar year thereafter, 
or such greater’’. 
(2) NOTE 16.—U.S. Note 16 to subchapter II of 
chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of 
the United States is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘from January 1 to December 
31 of each year, inclusive’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘, or such other’’ and inserting 
the following: ‘‘in calendar year 2001, 2,500,000 
square meter equivalents in calendar year 2002, 
and 3,500,000 square meter equivalents in calendar 
year 2003 and each calendar year thereafter, 
or such greater’’. 
(c) EXTENSION OF DUTY REFUNDS AND WOOL 
RESEARCH TRUST FUND.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The United States Customs 
Service shall pay each manufacturer that receives 
a payment under section 505 of the Trade 
and Development Act of 2000 (Public Law 106– 
200) for calendar year 2002, and that provides 
an affidavit that it remains a manufacturer in 
the United States as of January 1 of the year of 
the payment, 2 additional payments, each payment 
equal to the payment received for calendar 
year 2002 as follows: 
(A) The first payment to be made after January 
1, 2004, but on or before April 15, 2004. 
(B) The second payment to be made after January 
1, 2005, but on or before April 15, 2005. 
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 506(f) 
of the Trade and Development Act of 2000 (Public 
Law 106–200) is amended by striking ‘‘2004’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2006’’. 
(3) AUTHORIZATION.—There is authorized to be 
appropriated and is appropriated out of 
amounts in the general fund of the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out the provisions of this subsection. 


(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made 
by subsection (a)(2)(B) applies to goods entered, 
or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, 
on or after January 1, 2002. 
SEC. 3203. CEILING FANS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, ceiling fans classified under 
subheading 8414.51.00 of the Harmonized Tariff 
Schedule of the United States imported from 
Thailand shall enter duty-free and without any 
quantitative limitations, if duty-free treatment 
under title V of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2461 et seq.) would have applied to such entry 
had the competitive need limitation been waived 
under section 503(d) of such Act. 
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The provisions of this 
section shall apply to ceiling fans described in 
subsection (a) that are entered, or withdrawn 
from warehouse for consumption— 
(1) on or after the date that is 15 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act; and 
(2) before July 30, 2002. 

SEC. 3204. CERTAIN STEAM OR OTHER VAPOR 
GENERATING BOILERS USED IN NUCLEAR 
FACILITIES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subheading 9902.84.02 of the 
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United 
States is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘4.9%’’ and inserting ‘‘Free’’; 
and 
(2) by striking ‘‘12/31/2003’’ and inserting ‘‘12/ 
31/2006’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by 
subsection (a) shall apply to goods entered, or 
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on 
or after January 1, 2002. 
(2) RETROACTIVE APPLICATION.—Notwithstanding 
section 514 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or 
any other provision of law, and subject to paragraph 
(4), the entry of any article— 
(A) that was made on or after January 1, 2002, 
and 
(B) to which duty-free treatment would have 
applied if the amendment made by this section 
had been in effect on the date of such entry, 
shall be liquidated or reliquidated as if such 
duty-free treatment applied, and the Secretary 
of the Treasury shall refund any duty paid with 
respect to such entry. 
(3) ENTRY.—As used in this subsection, the 
term ‘‘entry’’ includes a withdrawal from warehouse 
for consumption. 
(4) REQUESTS.—Liquidation or reliquidation 
may be made under paragraph (2) with respect 
to an entry only if a request therefor is filed 
with the Customs Service, within 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, that contains 
sufficient information to enable the Customs 
Service— 
(A) to locate the entry; or 
(B) to reconstruct the entry if it cannot be located. 
DIVISION D—EXTENSION OF CERTAIN 
PREFERENTIAL TRADE TREATMENT AND 
OTHER PROVISIONS 

TITLE XLI—EXTENSION OF GENERALIZED 
SYSTEM OF PREFERENCES 

SEC. 4101. GENERALIZED SYSTEM OF PREFERENCES. 


(a) EXTENSION OF DUTY-FREE TREATMENT 
UNDER SYSTEM.—Section 505 of the Trade Act of 
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2465) is amended by striking 
‘‘September 30, 2001’’ and inserting ‘‘December 
31, 2006’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made 
by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of 
enactment of this Act. 
(c) RETROACTIVE APPLICATION FOR CERTAIN 
LIQUIDATIONS AND RELIQUIDATIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.— 
(A) ENTRY OF CERTAIN ARTICLES.—Notwithstanding 
section 514 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or 

S4928 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 3, 2002 

any other provision of law, and subject to paragraph 
(2), the entry— 

(i) of any article to which duty-free treatment 
under title V of the Trade Act of 1974 would 
have applied if the entry had been made on September 
30, 2001; 
(ii) that was made after September 30, 2001, 
and before the date of enactment of this Act; 
and 
(iii) to which duty-free treatment under title V 
of that Act did not apply, 
shall be liquidated or reliquidated as free of 
duty, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
refund any duty paid with respect to such 
entry. 
(B) ENTRY.—In this subsection, the term 
‘‘entry’’ includes a withdrawal from warehouse 
for consumption. 
(2) REQUESTS.—Liquidation or reliquidation 
may be made under paragraph (1) with respect 
to an entry only if a request therefor is filed 
with the Customs Service, within 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, that contains 
sufficient information to enable the Customs 
Service— 
(A) to locate the entry; or 
(B) to reconstruct the entry if it cannot be located. 
SEC. 4102. AMENDMENTS TO GENERALIZED SYSTEM 
OF PREFERENCES. 

(a) ELIGIBILITY FOR GENERALIZED SYSTEM OF 
PREFERENCES.—Section 502(b)(2)(F) of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2462(b)(2)(F)) is amended 
by striking the period at the end and inserting 
‘‘or such country has not taken steps to support 
the efforts of the United States to combat terrorism.’’. 
(b) DEFINITION OF INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED 
WORKER RIGHTS.—Section 507(4) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2467(4)) is 
amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subparagraph 
(D); 
(2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph 
(E) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; 
(3) by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph: 
‘‘(F) a prohibition on discrimination with respect 
to employment and occupation.’’; and 

(4) by amending subparagraph (D) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(D) a minimum age for the employment of 
children, and a prohibition on the worst forms 
of child labor, as defined in paragraph (6);’’. 

TITLE XLII—OTHER PROVISIONS 
SEC. 4201. TRANSPARENCY IN NAFTA TRIBUNALS. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the following 
findings: 
(1) Chapter Eleven of the North American 
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) allows foreign 
investors to file claims against signatory countries 
that directly or indirectly nationalize or expropriate 
an investment, or take measures ‘‘tantamount 
to nationalization or expropriation’’ of 
such an investment. 
(2) Foreign investors have filed several claims 
against the United States, arguing that regulatory 
activity has been ‘‘tantamount to nationalization 
or expropriation’’. Most notably, a Canadian 
chemical company claimed $970,000,000 
in damages allegedly resulting from a California 
State regulation banning the use of a gasoline 
additive produced by that company. 
(3) A claim under Chapter Eleven of the 
NAFTA is adjudicated by a three-member panel, 
whose deliberations are largely secret. 
(4) While it may be necessary to protect the 
confidentiality of business sensitive information, 
the general lack of transparency of these proceedings 
has been excessive. 
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this amendment 
is to ensure that the proceedings of the NAFTA 
investor protection tribunals are as transparent 
as possible, consistent with the need to protect 
the confidentiality of business sensitive information. 
(c) CHAPTER 11 OF NAFTA.—The President 
shall negotiate with Canada and Mexico an 
amendment to Chapter Eleven of the NAFTA to 
ensure the fullest transparency possible with respect 
to the dispute settlement mechanism in 
that Chapter, consistent with the need to protect 
information that is classified or confidential, 
by— 

(1) ensuring that all requests for dispute settlement 
under Chapter Eleven are promptly 
made public; 
(2) ensuring that with respect to Chapter 
Eleven— 
(A) all proceedings, submissions, findings, and 
decisions are promptly made public; and 
(B) all hearings are open to the public; and 
(3) establishing a mechanism under that 
Chapter for acceptance of amicus curiae submissions 
from businesses, unions, and nongovernmental 
organizations. 
(d) CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—Within 
one year of the date of enactment of this Act, 
the U.S. Trade Representative shall certify to 
Congress that the President has fulfilled the requirements 
set forth in subsection (c). 
SEC. 4202. EXPRESSION OF SOLIDARITY WITH 
ISRAEL IN ITS FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM. 


(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the following 
findings: 
(1) The United States and Israel are now engaged 
in a common struggle against terrorism 
and are on the frontlines of a conflict thrust 
upon them against their will. 
(2) President George W. Bush declared on November 
21, 2001, ‘‘We fight the terrorists and we 
fight all of those who give them aid. America 
has a message for the nations of the world: If 
you harbor terrorists, you are terrorists. If you 
train or arm a terrorist, you are a terrorist. If 
you feed a terrorist or fund a terrorist, you are 
a terrorist, and you will be held accountable by 
the United States and our friends.’’. 
(3) The United States has committed to provide 
resources to states on the frontline in the 
war against terrorism. 
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—The Congress— 
(1) stands in solidarity with Israel, a frontline 
state in the war against terrorism, as it takes 
necessary steps to provide security to its people 
by dismantling the terrorist infrastructure in the 
Palestinian areas; 
(2) remains committed to Israel’s right to self-
defense; 
(3) will continue to assist Israel in strengthening 
its homeland defenses; 
(4) condemns Palestinian suicide bombings; 
(5) demands that the Palestinian Authority 
fulfill its commitment to dismantle the terrorist 
infrastructure in the Palestinian areas; 
(6) urges all Arab states, particularly the 
United States allies, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, to 
declare their unqualified opposition to all forms 
of terrorism, particularly suicide bombing, and 
to act in concert with the United States to stop 
the violence; and 
(7) urges all parties in the region to pursue 
vigorously efforts to establish a just, lasting, 
and comprehensive peace in the Middle East. 
SEC. 4203. LIMITATION ON USE OF CERTAIN REVENUE. 


Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any revenue generated from custom user fees imposed 
pursuant to Section 13031(j)(3) of the Consolidated 
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 
1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(j)(3)) may be used only to 
fund the operations of the United States Customs 
Service. 

SEC. 4204. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING 
THE UNITED STATES-RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
SUMMIT MEETING, MAY 
2002. 

(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate finds that— 
(1) President George W. Bush will visit the 
Russian Federation May 23-25, 2002, to meet 
with his Russian counterpart, President Vladimir 
V. Putin; 
(2) the President and President Putin, and the 
United States and Russian governments, continue 
to cooperate closely in the fight against 
international terrorism; 
(3) the President seeks Russian cooperation in 
containing the war-making capabilities of Iraq, 
including that country’s ongoing program to develop 
and deploy weapons of mass destruction; 
(4) during his visit, the President expects to 
sign a treaty to significantly reduce deployed 
American and Russian nuclear weapons by 2012; 
(5) the President and his NATO partners have 
further institutionalized United States-Russian 
security cooperation through establishment of 
the NATO-Russia Council, which meets for the 
first time on May 28, 2002, in Rome, Italy; 
(6) during his visit, the President will continue 
to address religious freedom and human 
rights concerns through open and candid discussions 
with President Putin, with leading 
Russian activists, and with representatives of 
Russia’s revitalized and diverse Jewish community; 
and 
(7) recognizing Russia’s progress on religious 
freedom and a broad range of other mechanisms 
to address remaining concerns, the President 
has asked the Congress to terminate application 
to Russian of title IV of the Trade Act of 1974 
(commonly known as the ‘‘Jackson-Vanik 
Amendment’’) and authorize the extension of 
normal trade relations to the products of Russia. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—The Senate— 
(1) supports the President’s efforts to deepen 
the friendship between the American and Russian 
peoples; 
(2) further supports the policy objectives of 
the President mentioned in this section with respect 
to the Russian Federation; 
(3) supports terminating the application of 
title IV of the Trade Act of 1974 to Russia in an 
appropriate and timely manner; and 
(4) looks forward to learning the results of the 
President’s discussions with President Putin 
and other representatives of the Russian government 
and Russian society. 
SEC. 4205. NO APPROPRIATIONS. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Act, no direct appropriation may be made under 
this Act. 

f 

THE CALENDAR 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent it be in order to consider 
the following calendar items en 
bloc and the Senate proceed to their 
consideration: Calendar No. 397, H.R. 
3789; Calendar No. 392, S. 1983; Calendar 
No. 395, H.R. 1366; Calendar No. 399, 
H.R. 4486; Calendar No. 396, H.R. 1374; 
Calendar No. 398, H.R. 3960; the bills be 
read three times, passed, the motions 
to reconsider be laid upon the table en 
bloc, without any intervening action or 
debate, and consideration of these 
items appear separately in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

TENO RONCALIO POST OFFICE 
BUILDING 

The bill (H.R. 3789) to designate the 
facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 2829 Commercial 
Way in Rock Springs, Wyoming, as the 
‘‘Teno Roncalio Post Office Building,’’ 
was considered, ordered to a third reading, 
read the third time, and passed. 

f 

JOHN A. ‘‘JACK’’ SHEA POST 
OFFICE BUILDING 

The bill (S. 1983) to designate the facility 
of the United States Postal Service 
located at 201 Main Street, Lake 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4929 

Placid, New York, as the ‘‘John A. 
‘‘Jack’’ Shea Post Office Building,’’ 
was considered, ordered to be engrossed 
for a third reading, read the third time, 
and passed; as follows: 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. JOHN A. ‘‘JACK’’ SHEA POST OFFICE. 

(A) DESIGNATION.—The facility of the 
United States Postal Service located at 201 
Main Street in Lake Placid, New York, shall 
be known and designated as the ‘‘John A. 
‘Jack’ Shea Post Office Building’’. 
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law, 
map, regulation, document, paper, or other 
record of the United States to the facility referred 
to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to 
be a reference to the John A. ‘‘Jack’’ Shea 
Post Office Building. 
f 

HECTOR G. GODINEZ POST OFFICE 
BUILDING 

The bill (H.R. 1366) to designate the 
United States Post Office building located 
at 3101 West Sunflower Avenue in 
Santa Ana, California, as the ‘‘Hector 

G. Godinez Post Office Building,’’ was 
considered, ordered to a third reading, 
the third time, and passed. 
f 

CLARENCE B. CRAFT POST OFFICE 
BUILDING 

The bill (H.R. 4486) to designate the 
facility of the United States Postal 

Service located at 1590 East Joyce Boulevard 
in Fayetteville, Arkansas, as 
the ‘‘Clarence B. Craft Post Office 
Building,’’ was considered, ordered to a 
third reading, read the third time, and 
passed. 

f 

PHILIP E. RUPPE POST OFFICE 
BUILDING 

The bill (H.R. 1374) to designate the 
facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 600 Calumet Street 
in Lake Linden, Michigan, as the 
‘‘Philip E. Ruppe Post Office Building,’’ 
was considered, ordered to a third reading, 
read the third time, and passed. 

f 

JOSEPH W. WESTMORELAND POST 
OFFICE BUILDING 

The bill (H.R. 3960) to designate the 
facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 3719 Highway 4 in 
Jay, Florida, as the ‘‘Joseph W. Westmoreland 
Post Office Building,’’ was 
considered, ordered to a third reading, 
read the third time, and passed. 

f 

MEASURES INDEFINITELY 
POSTPONED 

Mr. REID. I ask unanimous consent 
the following calendar items be indefinitely 
postponed: Calendar Nos. 391, 
393, and 394. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, JUNE 4, 
2002 

Mr. REID. I ask unanimous consent 
that when the Senate completes its 
business today, it adjourn until 10 a.m. 
tomorrow, Tuesday, June 4; that following 
the prayer and the pledge, the 
Journal of proceedings be approved to 
date, the morning hour be deemed expired, 
the time for the two leaders be 
reserved for their use later in the day, 
and the Senate resume consideration of 

H.R. 4775; further, the Senate recess 
from 12:30 to 2:15 tomorrow for the 
weekly party conferences. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M. 
TOMORROW 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, if there is 
no further business to come before the 
Senate, I ask unanimous consent the 
Senate stand in adjournment under the 
previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 3 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, 
June 4, 2002, at 10 a.m. 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E939 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS 
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4, 
agreed to by the Senate on February 4, 
1977, calls for establishment of a system 
for a computerized schedule of all 
meetings and hearings of Senate committees, 
subcommittees, joint committees, 
and committees of conference. 
This title requires all such committees 
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest—designated by the Rules Committee—
of the time, place, and purpose 
of the meetings, when scheduled, and 
any cancellations or changes in the 
meetings as they occur. 
As an additional procedure along 
with the computerization of this information, 
the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest will prepare this information for 
printing in the Extensions of Remarks 
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
on Monday and Wednesday of each 
week. 
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, 
June 4, 2002 may be found in the Daily 
Digest of today’s RECORD. 
MEETINGS SCHEDULED 

JUNE 5 

9:30 a.m. 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
To hold hearings on the nomination of 
Steven Robert Blust, of Florida, to be a 
Federal Maritime Commissioner. 

SR–253 
Energy and Natural Resources 
Business meeting to consider pending 
calendar business. 
SD–366 
10 a.m. 
Environment and Public Works 

To hold hearings on S. 1586, to amend the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to authorize 
the carrying of firearms by employees 
of licensees; and S. 1746, to amend the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy 
Reorganization Act of 1974 to 
strengthen security at sensitive nuclear 
facilities. 

SD–406 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine issues surrounding 
service academy superintendents. 


SD–192 

2:30 p.m. 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
Housing and Transportation Subcommittee 
To hold oversight hearings to examine 
Federal responses to lead based paint 
poisoning. 

SD–538 
Intelligence 

To hold joint closed hearings with the 
House Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence to examine events surrounding 
September 11, 2001. 

S–407, Capitol 

JUNE 6 

9:30 a.m. 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
To hold hearings to examine the Individuals 
with Disabilities Education Act, 
focusing on accountability. 

SD–430 

Judiciary 
To hold oversight hearings on counter-
terrorism issues. 
SH–216 

10 a.m. 
Environment and Public Works 
Clean Air, Wetlands, and Climate Change 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on wetlands, focusing 
on the impacts of the revisions to the 
Clean Water Act regulatory definitions 
of ‘‘fill material’’ and ‘‘discharge of fill 
material.’’. 
SD–406 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
Financial Institutions Subcommittee 
To hold oversight hearings to examine 
capital investments in Indian country. 
SD–538 
Appropriations 
Interior Subcommittee 
To resume hearings on proposed budget 
estimates for fiscal year 2003 for the 

U.S. Forest Service, Department of Agriculture. 
SD–116 
Intelligence 
To hold joint closed hearings with the 
House Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence to examine events surrounding 
September 11, 2001. 

S–407, Capitol 

11:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 2003 for the Department 
of Labor. 

SD–192 
2 p.m. 
Veterans’ Affairs 
Business meeting to markup pending calendar 
business. 
SR–418 

2:30 p.m. 
Judiciary 
Crime and Drugs Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine penalties 
for white collar offenses. 
SD–226 
Energy and Natural Resources 
Water and Power Subcommittee 

To hold hearings on S. 1310, to provide 
for the sale of certain real property in 
the Newlands Project, Nevada, to the 
city of Fallon, Nevada; S. 2475, to 
amend the Central Utah Project Completion 
Act to clarify the responsibilities 
of the Secretary of the Interior 
with respect to the Central Utah 
Project, to redirect unexpended budget 
authority for the Central Utah Project 
for wastewater treatment and reuse 
and other purposes, to provide for prepayment 
of repayment contracts for 
municipal and industrial water delivery 
facilities, and to eliminate a deadline 
for such prepayment; S. 1385, to 
authorize the Secretary of the Interior, 
pursuant to the provisions of the Reclamation 
Wastewater and Groundwater 
Study and Facilities Act to participate 
in the design, planning, and construction 
of the Lakehaven water reclamation 
project for the reclamation and 
reuse of water; S. 1824/H.R. 2828, to authorize 
payments to certain Lama 
Project water distribution entities for 
amounts assessed by the entities for 

operation and maintenance of the 
Project’s irrigation works for 2001, to 
authorize funds to such entities of 
amounts collected by the Bureau of 
Reclamation for reserved works for 
2001; S. 1883, to authorize the Bureau of 
Reclamation to participate in the rehabilitation 
of the Wallowa Lake Dam in 
Oregon; S. 1999, to reauthorize the Mni 
Wiconi Rural Water Supply Project; 
and H.R. 706, to direct the Secretary of 
the Interior to convey certain properties 
in the vicinity of the Elephant 
Butte Reservoir and the Caballo Reservoir, 
New Mexico. 

SD–366 
Intelligence 

To hold joint closed hearings with the 
House Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence to examine events surrounding 
September 11, 2001. 

S–407, Capitol 
Governmental Affairs 
International Security, Proliferation and 

Federal Services Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine difficulties 
and solutions concerning nonproliferation 
disputes and export controls between 
Russia and China. 

SD–342 

JUNE 7 

9:30 a.m. 
Joint Economic Committee 
To hold hearings to examine employment-
unemployment situation for 
May. 

1334, Longworth Building 

JUNE 11 

9:30 a.m. 
Appropriations 
District of Columbia Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 2003 for the government 
of the District of Columbia, 
focusing on the Anacostia Waterfront 
Initiative. 

SD–192 

10 a.m. 
Governmental Affairs 
International Security, Proliferation and 

Federal Services Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine cruise mis


siles and unmanned 
threats to the United Saerial 
tates. 
vehicle 
SD–342 
JUNE 12 
9:30 a.m. 
Governmental Affairs 

To hold hearings to examine the status 
of childhood vaccines. 
SD–342 

JUNE 13 
10 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Interior Subcommittee 
To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 2003 for the Department 
of the Interior. 
SD–124 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


Monday, June 3, 2002 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 
See Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S4883–S4929 

Measures Introduced: One bill was introduced, as 
follows: S. 2574. Page S4890 

Measures Reported: 

Reported on Wednesday, May 29, during the adjournment: 


Report to accompany S. 2551, making supplemental 
appropriations for further recovery from and 
response to terrorist attacks on the United States for 
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2002. (S. Rept. 
No. 107–156) 

S. 1991, To establish a national rail passenger 
transportation system, reauthorize Amtrak, improve 
security and service on Amtrak, with an amendment 
in the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 107–157) 
S. Res. 263, congratulating the Republic of Croatia 
on the 10th anniversary of its recognition by the 
United States, with an amendment in the nature of 
a substitute. 
S. Res. 272, expressing the sense of the Senate regarding 
the success of the Varela Project’s collection 
of 10,000 certified signatures in support of a national 
referendum and the delivery of these signatures 
to the Cuban National Assembly, with an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute. 
Reported today: 

S. Res. 252, expressing the sense of the Senate regarding 
human rights violations in Tibet, the Panchen 
Lama, and the need for dialogue between the 
Chinese leadership and the Dalai Lama or his representatives, 
with an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute and with an amended preamble. 
Page S4890 

Measures Passed: 

Teno Roncalio Post Office Building: Senate 
passed H.R. 3789, to designate the facility of the 
United States Postal Service located at 2829 Commercial 
Way in Rock Springs, Wyoming, as the 

‘‘Teno Roncalio Post Office Building’’, clearing the 
measure for the President. Page S4928 

John A. ‘‘Jack’’ Shea Post Office Building: Senate 
passed S. 1983, to designate the facility of the 
United States Postal Service located at 201 Main 
Street, Lake Placid, New York, as the ‘‘John A. 
‘Jack’ Shea Post Office Building’’. Pages S4928–29 

Hector G. Godinez Post Office Building: Senate 
passed H.R. 1366, to designate the United States 
Post Office building located at 3101 West Sunflower 
Avenue in Santa Ana, California, as the ‘‘Hector G. 
Godinez Post Office Building’’, clearing the measure 
for the President. Page S4929 

Clarence B. Craft Post Office Building: Senate 
passed H.R. 4486, to designate the facility of the 
United States Postal Service located at 1590 East 
Joyce Boulevard in Fayetteville, Arkansas, as the 
‘‘Clarence B. Craft Post Office Building’’, clearing 
the measure for the President. Page S4929 

Philip E. Ruppe Post Office Building: Senate 
passed H.R. 1374, to designate the facility of the 
United States Postal Service located at 600 Calumet 
Street in Lake Linden, Michigan, as the ‘‘Philip E. 
Ruppe Post Office Building’’, clearing the measure 
for the President. Page S4929 

Joseph W. Westmoreland Post Office Building: 
Senate passed H.R. 3960, to designate the facility of 
the United States Postal Service located at 3719 
Highway 4 in Jay, Florida, as the ‘‘Joseph W. Westmoreland 
Post Office Building’’, clearing the measure 
for the President. Page S4929 

Supplemental Appropriations Act: Senate began 
consideration of H.R. 4775, making supplemental 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2002, after striking all after the enacting clause 
and inserting in lieu thereof the text of S. 2551, 
Senate companion measure, as original text. 

Pages S4884–86 

D548 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D549 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
for further consideration of the bill at 10 
a.m., on Tuesday, June 4, 2002. Page S4929 

Measures Indefinitely Postponed: 

Teno Roncalio Post Office Building: S. 1970, to 
designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 2829 Commercial Way in Rock 
Springs, Wyoming, as the ‘‘Teno Roncalio Post Office 
Building’’. Page S4929 

Hector G. Godinez Post Office Building: S. 
2217, to designate the facility of the United States 
Postal Service located at 3101 West Sunflower Avenue 
in Santa Ana, California, as the ‘‘Hector G. 
Godinez Post Office Building’’. Page S4929 

Clarence B. Craft Post Office Building: S. 2433, 
to designate the facility of the United States Postal 
Service located at 1590 East Joyce Boulevard in Fayetteville, 
Arkansas, as the ‘‘Clarence B. Craft Post 
Office Building’’. Page S4929 

Messages From the House: Page S4888 
Measures Placed on Calendar: Page S4888 
Executive Communications: Page S4888 
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S4890–91 

Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions: 

Page S4891 
Additional Statements: Pages S4886–88 
Amendments Submitted: Pages S4891–92 
Privilege of the Floor: Page S4892 
Text of H.R. 3009, as Previously Passed: 

Pages S4892–S4928 

Adjournment: Senate met at 1 p.m., and adjourned 
at 3 p.m., until 10 a.m., on Tuesday, June 4, 2002. 

Committee Meetings 

No committee meetings were held. 

h 

House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

The House was not in session today. Pursuant to 
the provisions of S. Con. Res. 118, providing for a 
conditional recess or adjournment of the Senate and 
a conditional adjournment of the House of Representatives, 
the House stands adjourned until 2 

p.m. on Tuesday, June 4, 2002. 
Committee Meetings 

No Committee meetings were held. 

f 

NEW PUBLIC LAWS 

(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST of May 22, 
2002, p. D534) 

H.R. 4592, to name the chapel located in the national 
cemetery in Los Angeles, California, as the 
‘‘Bob Hope Veterans Chapel’’. Signed on May 29, 
2002. (Public Law 107–183) 
H.R. 4608, to name the Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical and Regional Office Center in Wichita, 
Kansas, as the ‘Robert J. Dole Department of 
Veterans Affairs Medical and Regional Office Center’. 
Signed on May 29, 2002. (Public Law 107–184) 
H.R. 1840, to extend eligibility for refugee status 
of unmarried sons and daughters of certain Vietnamese 
refugees. Signed on May 30, 2002. (Public 
Law 107–185) 

H.R. 4782, to extend the authority of the Export-
Import Bank until June 14, 2002. Signed on May 
30, 2002. (Public Law 107–186) 
f 

CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD 

Week of June 4 through June 8, 2002 

Senate Chamber 

On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of 

H.R. 4775, Supplemental Appropriations. 
During the balance of the week, Senate will continue 
consideration of H.R. 4775, Supplemental Appropriations, 
and S. 625, Hate Crimes bill, and any 
other cleared legislative and executive business. 

Senate Committees 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 
Committee on Appropriations: June 4, Subcommittee on 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, to 
hold hearings to examine cancer research and prevention 
issues, 9:30 a.m., SH–216. 
June 5, Subcommittee on Defense, to hold hearings to 
examine issues surrounding service academy superintendents, 
10 a.m., SD–192. 
June 6, Subcommittee on Interior, to resume hearings 
on proposed budget estimates for fiscal year 2003 for the 


D550 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST June 3, 2002 

U.S. Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, 10 a.m., 
SD–116. 
June 6, Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, to hold hearings on proposed 
budget estimates for fiscal year 2003 for the Department 
of Labor, 11:30 a.m., SD–192. 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: June 
5, Subcommittee on Housing and Transportation, to hold 
oversight hearings to examine Federal responses to lead 
based paint poisoning, 2:30 p.m., SD–538. 

June 6, Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, to 
hold oversight hearings to examine capital investments in 
Indian country, 10 a.m., SD–538. 

Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: June 
5, to hold hearings on the nomination of Steven Robert 
Blust, of Florida, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner, 
9:30 a.m., SR–253. 

Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: June 4, to 
hold hearings on the nomination of Kyle E. McSlarrow, 
of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Energy, 9:45 a.m., 
SD–366. 

June 5, Full Committee, business meeting to consider 
pending calendar business, 9:30 a.m., SD–366. 

June 6, Subcommittee on Water and Power, to hold 
hearings on S. 1310, to provide for the sale of certain real 
property in the Newlands Project, Nevada, to the city of 
Fallon, Nevada; S. 2475, to amend the Central Utah 
Project Completion Act to clarify the responsibilities of 
the Secretary of the Interior with respect to the Central 
Utah Project, to redirect unexpended budget authority for 
the Central Utah Project for wastewater treatment and 
reuse and other purposes, to provide for prepayment of 
repayment contracts for municipal and industrial water 
delivery facilities, and to eliminate a deadline for such 
prepayment; S. 1385, to authorize the Secretary of the Interior, 
pursuant to the provisions of the Reclamation 
Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act to 
participate in the design, planning, and construction of 
the Lakehaven water reclamation project for the reclamation 
and reuse of water; S. 1824/H.R. 2828, to authorize 
payments to certain Lama Project water distribution entities 
for amounts assessed by the entities for operation and 
maintenance of the Project’s irrigation works for 2001, to 
authorize funds to such entities of amounts collected by 
the Bureau of Reclamation for reserved works for 2001; 

S. 1883, to authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to participate 
in the rehabilitation of the Wallowa Lake Dam 
in Oregon; S. 1999, to reauthorize the Mni Wiconi Rural 
Water Supply Project; and H.R. 706, to direct the Secretary 
of the Interior to convey certain properties in the 
vicinity of the Elephant Butte Reservoir and the Caballo 
Reservoir, New Mexico, 2:30 p.m., SD–366. 
Committee on Environment and Public Works: June 4, to 
hold hearings on the Kennedy Center, focusing on the 
proposed Kennedy Center plaza project, 9 a.m., SD–406. 

June 4, Full Committee, business meeting to consider 
S.1917, to provide for highway infrastructure investment 
at the guaranteed funding level contained in the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st Century, 12:30 p.m., 
S–216, Capitol. 

June 5, Full Committee, to hold hearings on S. 1586, 
to amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to authorize 
the carrying of firearms by employees of licensees; and 

S. 1746, to amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and 
the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 to strengthen security 
at sensitive nuclear facilities, 10 a.m., SD–406. 
June 6, Subcommittee on Clean Air, Wetlands, and 
Climate Change, to hold hearings on wetlands, focusing 
on the impacts of the revisions to the Clean Water Act 
regulatory definitions of ‘‘fill material’’ and ‘‘discharge of 
fill material.’’, 10 a.m., SD–406. 

Committee on Finance: June 4, to hold hearings to examine 
small business and rural economic development, 2:30 
p.m., SD–215. 

Committee on Governmental Affairs: June 4, Subcommittee 
on Oversight of Government Management, 
Restructuring and the District of Columbia, to hold hearings 
to examine the structure, scope, and effectiveness of 

U.S. food aid programs, including the role of surplus 
commodities, and the impact of changes under consideration, 
2 p.m., SD–342. 
June 6, Subcommittee on International Security, Proliferation 
and Federal Services, to hold hearings to examine 
difficulties and solutions concerning nonproliferation 
disputes and export controls between Russia and China, 
2:30 p.m., SD–342. 

Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: June 
6, to hold hearings to examine the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act, focusing on accountability, 9:30 
a.m., SD–430. 

Committee on Indian Affairs: June 4, to hold hearings to 
examine issues surrounding sacred sites, 10 a.m., SR–485. 

Select Committee on Intelligence: June 4, to hold joint 
closed hearings with the House Permanent Select Committee 
on Intelligence to examine events surrounding 
September 11, 2001, 2:30 p.m., S–407, Capitol. 

June 5, Full Committee, to hold joint closed hearings 
with the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
to examine events surrounding September 11, 
2001, 2:30 p.m., S–407, Capitol. 

June 6, Full Committee, to hold joint closed hearings 
with the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
to examine events surrounding September 11, 
2001, 10 a.m., S–407, Capitol. 

June 6, Full Committee, to hold joint closed hearings 
with the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
to examine events surrounding September 11, 
2001, 2:30 p.m., S–407, Capitol. 

Committee on the Judiciary: June 6, to hold oversight 
hearings on counter-terrorism issues, 9:30 a.m., SH–216. 

June 6, Subcommittee on Crime and Drugs, to hold 
hearings to examine penalties for white collar offenses, 
2:30 p.m., SD–226. 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: June 6, business meeting 
to mark up pending calendar business, 2 p.m., SR–418. 

House Chamber 

Monday, the House was not in session. 

Tuesday, consideration of Suspensions: 

(1) H.R. 4073, Microenterprise for Self-Reliance 
Act Foreign Assistance Act Amendments; 

June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D551 

(2) H.R. 4466, National Transportation Safety 
Board Reauthorization Act; 
(3) H.R. 3983, Maritime Transportation 
Antiterrorism Act of 2002; 
(4) H.R. 4800, Repeal of Sunset Provisions for the 
Expansion of Adoption Credit and Assistance Programs; 
(5) H.R. 4823, Repeal of Sunset Provisions Pertaining 
to the Federal Income Tax Exclusion for Restitution 
Received by Nazi Victims; and 
(6) H.R. 2941, Brownfields Redevelopment Enhancement 
Act. 
Wednesday and Thursday, consideration of H.R. 
4628, FY 2003 Intelligence Authorization Act (Subject 
to a Rule); 

S. 1372, Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act 
Conference Report (Subject to a Rule); and 
H.R. 2143, Permanent Death Tax Repeal Act of 
2002 (Subject to a Rule). 
Friday, no votes are expected. 

House Committees 

Committee on Agriculture, June 6, Subcommittee on Department 
Operations, Oversight, Nutrition and Forestry, 
hearing on Public Safety Concerns and Forest Management 
Hurdles in the Black Hills National Forest, 1 p.m., 
1300 Longworth. 

Committee on Appropriations, June 5, Subcommittee on 
Defense, executive, on the Crusader, 1:30 p.m., H–140 
Capitol. 

June 5, Subcommittee on the District of Columbia, on 
Fiscal Year 2003 District of Columbia Budget, 1:30 
p.m., 2362 Rayburn. 

Committee on Armed Services, June 6, Special Oversight 
Panel on Terrorism, hearing on the question ‘‘Are Yasser 
Arafat and the Palestinian Authority Credible Partners for 
Peace?’’ 8:30 a.m., 2212 Rayburn. 

Committee on the Budget, June 5, hearing on International 
Perspectives on Common Fiscal Issues, 10 a.m., 
210 Cannon. 

Committee on Education and the Workforce, June 6, Subcommittee 
on Education, hearing on ‘‘Learning Disabilities 
and Early Intervention Strategies: How to Reform 
the Special Education Referral and Identification Process,’’ 
10 a.m., 2175 Rayburn. 

Committee on Energy and Commerce, June 5, Subcommittee 
on Commerce, Trade, and Consumer Protection, 
hearing on H.R. 4701, Sports Agent Responsibility 
and Trust Act,’’ 10 a.m., 2322 Rayburn. 

June 5, Subcommittee on Energy and Air Quality, 
hearing entitled ‘‘Clean Air Act Implementation: Experience 
of State and Local Regulators,’’ 2 p.m., 2123 Rayburn. 


June 5, Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the 
Internet, hearing entitled ‘‘The FCC’s UWB Proceeding: 
An Examination of the Government’s Spectrum Management 
Process,’’ 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn. 

June 6, Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled 
‘‘The National Institutes of Health: Investing in Research 
to Prevent and Cure Disease,’’ 10 a.m., 2322 Rayburn. 

June 6, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, 
hearing entitled ‘‘DOE’s FreedomCAR: Hurdles, Benchmarks 
for Progress, and Role in Energy Policy,’’ 10 a.m., 
2123 Rayburn. 

Committee on Financial Services, June 4, Subcommittee on 
Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored 
Enterprises, hearing entitled ‘‘Insurance Regulation and 
Competition for the 21st Century,’’ 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn. 


Committee on Government Reform, June 4, Subcommittee 
on National Security, Veterans’ Affairs, and International 
Relations, hearing on ‘‘Transforming Department of Defense 
Financial Management: A Strategy for Change,’’ 10 
a.m., 2154 Rayburn. 

June 5, Subcommittee on the District of Columbia, 
hearing on ‘‘Oversight Hearing on the Performance of the 
Court of Appeals and the Superior Court of the District 
of Columbia,’’ 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn. 

June 6, Subcommittee on Government Efficiency, Financial 
Management, and Intergovernmental Relations, 
hearing on ‘‘The Federal Financial Management Improvement 
Act of 1996: Are Agencies Meeting the Challenge?’’ 
10 a.m., 2247 Rayburn. 

June 6, Subcommittee on National Security, Veterans’ 
Affairs, and International Relations, hearing on ‘‘Combating 
Terrorism: Improving the Federal Response,’’ 10 
a.m., 2154 Rayburn. 

June 7, Subcommittee on Technology and Procurement 
Policy, hearing entitled ‘‘Coordinated Information Sharing 
and Homeland Security Technology,’’ 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn. 


Committee on International Relations, June 5, hearing on 
Following the Danforth Report: Defining the Next Step 
on the Path to Peace in Sudan, 10:15 a.m., 2172 Rayburn. 


June 6, Subcommittee on International Operations and 
Human Rights, hearing on An Assessment of Cuba 
Broadcasting—The Voice of Freedom, 10:30 a.m., 2172 
Rayburn. 

June 6, Subcommittee on the Middle East and South 
Asia, hearing on The Current Crisis in South Asia, 10 
a.m., 2200 Rayburn. 

Committee on the Judiciary, June 4, Subcommittee on 
Crime, hearing and markup of H.R. 4598, Homeland Security 
Information Sharing Act, 4 p.m., 2237 Rayburn. 

June 5, full Committee, hearing on H.R. 1253, Free 
Market Antitrust Immunity Reform (FAIR) Act of 2001, 
10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn. 

June 5, Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet and Intellectual 
Property, oversight hearing on ‘‘DRM: The 
Consumer Benefits of Today’s Digital Rights Management 
Solutions,’’ 2 p.m., 2141 Rayburn. 

June 6, full Committee, to continue markup of H.R. 
3215, Combating Illegal Gambling Reform and Modernization 
Act; and to mark up the following bills: H.R. 
1452, Family Reunification Act of 2001; H.R. 4623, 
Child Obscenity and Pornography Prevention Act of 
2002; H.R. 4477, Sex Tourism Prohibition Improvement 


D552 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST June 3, 2002 

Act of 2002; and H.R. 4679, Lifetime Consequences for 
Sex Offenders Act of 2002, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn. 

Committee on Resources, June 5, hearing on the following 
bills: H.R. 3048, Russian River Land Act; H.R. 3148, to 
amend the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to provide 
equitable treatment of Alaska Native Vietnam Veterans; 
and H.R. 4734, Alaska Federal Lands Management 
Demonstration Project Act, 11 a.m., 1334 Longworth. 

June 5, Subcommittee on Water and Power, to mark 
up H.R. 4638, to reauthorize the Mni Wiconi Rural 
Water Supply Project; and to hold a hearing on the following 
bills: H.R. 2202, Lower Yellowstone Reclamation 
Projects Conveyance Act; and H.R. 3223, Jicarilla Apache 
Reservation Rural Water System Act, 2 p.m., 1334 Long-
worth. 

June 6, Subcommittee on National Parks, Recreation 
and Public Lands, hearing on the following bills: H.R. 
3815, Presidential Historic Site Study Act; H.R. 4141, 
Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area Protection 
and Enhancement Act of 2002; and H.R. 4620, America’s 
Wilderness Protection Act, 2 p.m., 1334 Longworth. 

Committee on Rules, June 4, to consider the Conference 
Report to accompany S. 1372, Export-Import Reauthorization 
Act of 2002, 5 p.m., H–313 Capitol. 

Committee on Small Business, June 6, Subcommittee on 
Regulatory Reform and Oversight and the Subcommittee 
on Workforce, Empowerment, and Government Programs, 
joint hearing on The Cost of Regulations to Small 
Business, 2 p.m., 2360 Rayburn. 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, June 5, 
Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings 
and Emergency Management, hearing on U.S. General 
Services Administration’s Fiscal Year 2003 Capital 
Investment and Leasing Program, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn. 


June 6, Subcommittee on Railroads, hearing on Recent 
Derailments and Railroad Safety, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn. 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, June 6, Subcommittee on 
Benefits, hearing on the status of the VA’s implementation 
of the VA Claims Processing Task Force’s recommendations, 
and the potential for a greater VA/Veterans 
Service Organization ‘‘partnership,’’ 10 a.m., 334 
Cannon. 

Committee on Ways and Means, June 6, hearing on Corporate 
Inversions, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth. 

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, June 5, Subcommittee 
on Technical and Tactical Intelligence, executive, 
hearing on Future Imagery Architecture, 10 a.m., 
H–405 Capitol. 

Joint Meetings 

Joint Meetings: June 4, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 
to hold joint closed hearings with the House 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence to examine 
events surrounding September 11, 2001, 2:30 p.m., 
S–407, Capitol. 

Joint Meetings: June 5, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 
to hold joint closed hearings with the House 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence to examine 
events surrounding September 11, 2001, 2:30 p.m., 
S–407, Capitol. 

Joint Meetings: June 6, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 
to hold joint closed hearings with the House 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence to examine 
events surrounding September 11, 2001, 10 a.m., S–407, 
Capitol. 

Joint Meetings: June 6, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 
to hold joint closed hearings with the House 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence to examine 
events surrounding September 11, 2001, 2:30 p.m., 
S–407, Capitol. 

Joint Economic Committee: June 7, to hold hearings 
to examine employment-unemployment situation for 
May, 9:30 a.m., 1334, Longworth Building. 


June 3, 2002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—DAILY DIGEST D553 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

SECOND SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SEVENTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 23 through May 31, 2002 

Senate House Total 
Days in session .................................... 67 55 . . 
Time in session ................................... 460 hrs., 29' 314 hrs., 28' .. 
Congressional Record: 
Pages of proceedings ................... 4,882 3,073 . . 
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 938 . . 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 12 38 . . 
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . . 
Bills in conference ............................... 4 5 . . 
Measures passed, total ......................... 137 196 . . 
Senate bills .................................. 17 12 . . 
House bills .................................. 42 83 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 1 . . 
House joint resolutions ............... 1 2 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 15 5 . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... 10 30 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 51 63 . . 
Measures reported, total ...................... 83 134 . . 
Senate bills .................................. 37 3 . . 
House bills .................................. 21 84 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 . . . . 
House joint resolutions ............... . . 2 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 5 . . . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... 2 6 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 17 34 . . 
Special reports ..................................... 3 2 . . 
Conference reports ............................... . . 3 . . 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 150 63 . . 
Measures introduced, total .................. 798 1,474 . . 
Bills ............................................. 685 1,244 . . 
Joint resolutions .......................... 7 14 . . 
Concurrent resolutions ................ 25 114 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 81 102 . . 
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 1 . . 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 130 107 . . 
Recorded votes .................................... . . 98 . . 
Bills vetoed ......................................... . . . . . . 
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . . 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 24 reports have been filed in the Senate, a total 
of lll reports have been filed in the House. 
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 23 through May 31, 2002 
Civilian Nominations, totaling 405 (including 166 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 
189 
212 
4 

Other Civilian Nominations, totaling 1,122 (including 535 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 957 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 165 

Air Force nominations, totaling 3,387 (including 4 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,658 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 729 

Army Nominations, totaling 1,358 (including 53 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,113 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 245 

Navy Nominations, totaling 1,152, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 364 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 788 

Marine Corps Nominations, totaling 1,722 (including 33 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,675 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 47 

Summary 

Total Nominations carried over from the First Session ......................... 791 
Total Nominations Received this Session .............................................. 8,355 
Total Confirmed .................................................................................... 6,956 
Total Unconfirmed ................................................................................ 2,186 
Total Withdrawn ................................................................................... 4 
Total Returned to the White House ..................................................... 0 


D554 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST June 3, 2002 

Next Meeting of the SENATE Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
10 a.m., Tuesday, June 4 2 p.m., Tuesday, June 4 

Senate Chamber 

Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consideration 
of H.R. 4775, Supplemental Appropriations Act. 

(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m., for 
their respective party conferences.) 

House Chamber 

Program for Tuesday: Consideration of Suspensions: 

(1) H.R. 4073, Microenterprise for Self-Reliance Act 
Foreign Assistance Act Amendments; 
(2) H.R. 4466, National Transportation Safety Board 
Reauthorization Act; 
(3) H.R. 3983, Maritime Transportation Antiterrorism 
Act of 2002; 
(4) H.R. 4800, Repeal of Sunset Provisions for the Expansion 
of Adoption Credit and Assistance Programs; 
(5) H.R. 4823, Repeal of Sunset Provisions Pertaining 
to the Federal Income Tax Exclusion for Restitution Received 
by Nazi Victims; and 
(6) H.R. 2941, Brownfields Redevelopment Enhancement 
Act. 
Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The public proceedings of each House of Congress, as reported by 
the Official Reporters thereof, are printed pursuant to directions 
of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate 
provisions of Title 44, United States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very 
infrequent instances when two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed at one time. ¶Public access to 
the Congressional Record is available online through GPO Access, a service of the Government Printing Office, free of charge to the user. 
The online database is updated each day the Congressional Record is published. The database includes both text and graphics from the 
beginning of the 103d Congress, 2d session (January 1994) forward. It is available through GPO Access at www.gpo.gov/gpoaccess. Customers 
can also access this information with WAIS client software, via telnet at swais.access.gpo.gov, or dial-in using communications software 
and a modem at (202) 512–1661. Questions or comments regarding this database or GPO Access can be directed to the GPO Access User 
Support Team at: E-Mail: gpoaccess@gpo.gov; Phone 1–888–293–6498 (toll-free), 202–512–1530 (D.C. area); Fax: 202–512–1262. The Team’s hours of 
availability are Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, except Federal holidays. ¶ The Congressional Record 
paper and 24x microfiche will be furnished by mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $211.00 for six 
months, $422.00 per year, or purchased for $5.00 per issue, payable in advance; microfiche edition, $141.00 per year, or purchased for $1.50 per 
issue payable in advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be purchased for the same per issue prices. To place an order 
for any of these products, visit the U.S. Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, 
P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250–7954, or phone orders to (866) 512–1800 (toll free), (202) 512–1800 (D.C. Area), or fax to (202) 512–2250. Remit 
check or money order, made payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO 
Deposit Account. ¶Following each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by 
the Superintendent of Documents in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the 
republication of material from the Congressional Record. 


