UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.05.10 14:32:36 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 108th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 150 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004 No. 59 

House of Representatives 

The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Tuesday, May 4, 2004, at 12:30 p.m. 

The Senate met at 1 p.m. and was 
called to order by the Honorable GORDON 
SMITH, a Senator from the State of 
Oregon. 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of


fered the following prayer: 

Let us pray. 

God of grace, glory, and power, the 
battle belongs to You. Thank You that 
though the storms rage, we can still 
anchor our hopes in Your might. Lord, 
we hear the sounds of conflict as people 
imagine vain things about Your loving 
providence. Forgive us for our fear of 
the future when we forget how You 
have led us in the past. Forgive us also 
for our haste to paint a caricature of 
the many because of the pathology of 
the few. Remind us that fierce winds 
bring no anxiety to those who keep 
their eyes on You. 

Lord, the challenges that we face are 
too complex for human reasoning 
alone, so imbue our leaders with Your 
wisdom that they may know the road 
to take. Sustain those who courageously 
bear the weight of combat and 
battle the fog of armed conflict. We 
praise You for the joy of those who are 
experiencing reunion with loved ones 
who have been rescued from danger. 
But we ask that You would bring comfort 
to those who mourn and to those 
who know the terror of anticipatory 
grief. 

And, Lord, we pray also for our enemies, 
that they may know the clarity 
of Your will. Carve tunnels of hope 
through mountains of despair and let 
the peace we seek in our world be conceived 
first in our hearts. Hasten the 

Senate 

MONDAY, MAY 3, 2004 

day when we will lay down our swords 
and shields and study war no more. 

We pray this in the name of the 
Prince of Peace. Amen. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The Honorable GORDON H. SMITH led 
the Pledge of Allegiance, as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

APPOINTMENT OF ACTING 
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will read a communication to the 
Senate from the President pro tempore 
(Mr. STEVENS). 

The legislative clerk read the following 
letter: 

U.S. SENATE, 
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE, 
Washington, DC, May 3, 2004. 
To the Senate: 

Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3, 
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby 
appoint the Honorable GORDON H. SMITH, a 
Senator from the State of Oregon, to perform 
the duties of the Chair. 

TED STEVENS, 

President pro tempore. 

Mr. SMITH thereupon assumed the 
Chair. 

f 

LEADER TIME 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, there 
will now be a period of leader time 
under the standing order. 

RECOGNITION OF THE ACTING 
MAJORITY LEADER 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Kentucky is 
recognized. 

f 

SCHEDULE 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Today, the Senate 
will be in a period of morning business 
until 2 p.m. Following morning business, 
the Senate will resume consideration 
of S. 1637, the FSC/ETI JOBS bill. 
We have locked in a limited list of 
amendments to that bill, and it is the 
leader’s intention to complete action 
on the bill this week. The chairman 
and ranking member of the Finance 
Committee will be here throughout the 
afternoon to work through these 
amendments. It is our hope that 
amendments will be offered and debated 
during today’s session. 

As announced last week, there will be 
no rollcall votes today. Any votes ordered 
with respect to amendments during 
today’s session will be set aside to 
occur tomorrow. 

I ask unanimous consent the morning 
business time be equally divided in 
the usual form. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

MEASURES PLACED ON THE CAL


ENDAR—H.R. 4181 AND S. 2370, EN 

BLOC 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
understand that there are two bills at 
the desk due a second reading. I ask 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S4727 


S4728 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

unanimous consent that the clerk read 
the titles of the bills for a second time 
en bloc. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 
The clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 4181) to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently extend 
the marriage penalty relief provided under 
the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation 
Act of 2001. 

A bill (S. 2370) to amend the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938 to provide for an increase 
in the Federal minimum wage, and for 
other purposes. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. I object to further 
proceeding en bloc. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Objection is heard. The bills will 
be placed on the calendar. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, there 
will be a period for the transaction of 
morning business for up to 60 minutes 
with Senators permitted to speak for 
up to 10 minutes each, time being divided 
equally between the two sides. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be dispensed with. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

ORDER OF PROCEDURE 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the previous 
quorum call and any other quorum 
calls during this morning’s business be 
charged equally to both sides. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

ENEMY COMBATANTS 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, there 
are a couple of news events in the last 
24 hours or 48 hours that I thought deserve 
some comment. 

Let me first talk a moment about the 
atrocities and abuse of enemy combatants—
prisoners—in Iraq which has 
been a major concern. Many of my colleagues 
have commented upon the horrific 
images that have come out on television 
and in the papers. I have not 
seen as yet many comments about the 
Pentagon’s response. That is what I 
wanted to comment on briefly. 

Officials within the Department of 
Defense have known at least since January 
that prisoners held as enemy combatants 
in Iraq have been subject to 
maltreatment, and to physical and sexual 
abuse. We know this because in 
January the Department of Defense re


lieved the camp commander of her duties 
and ordered an investigation. The 
investigation was completed in February. 
The 54-page report that was 
issued, as I understand it, contains horrifying 
details about these abuses. 

Yesterday, on the CBS news program 
‘‘Face the Nation,’’ Bob Schieffer, the 
host of that program, interviewed General 
Myers, Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff. Bob Schieffer asked 
about this report. He said, ‘‘There is a 
53-page report that Sy Hersh of the 
New Yorker has obtained which says 
that the situation was even worse. How 
could this have happened? What is 
going to occur? 

The part that I thought was most disturbing 
was the response by General 
Myers to the question: ‘‘Why would 
you not have seen the report?’’ The investigation 
was carried out in December. 
The report was completed in February. 
‘‘Why would you not have seen 
report?’’ And the response was: ‘‘It is 
working its way up, up the chain. I will 
see this report. I am sure it just hasn’t 
come to me yet.’’ 

This is an unacceptable response. If 
this is a concern of our Department of 
Defense, if this is a concern of the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
how can he state in May that he has 
not seen the report or demanded to see 
the report, and that it is, as he understands 
it, ‘‘working its way up’’ and 
will eventually come to him? 

I don’t think that is the level of concern 
we ought to be demonstrating in 
our Department of Defense for this 
kind of circumstance. It is not the 
level of concern the American people 
would expect of their military commanders 
for this type of conduct. 

I would think if the general believed 
swift action was required he might 
have directed those in the command— 
in his command and, of course, that is 
everyone in the military—to get that 
report to him immediately upon completion, 
and to give him concrete action 
items they were intending to take 
to deal with the situation. 

Leadership and responsibility flow 
from the top in our military. We all 
know that. For the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff to handle this 
matter in this way and indicate that, 
on May first, he has not seen the report 
but he assumes it is working its way up 
through the chain of command, demonstrates 
to all members of the military 
that humane treatment of prisoners 
is not a priority for our military 
in Iraq. 

That is unacceptable. That is unacceptable 
to this Senator. It is unacceptable, 
I believe, to the American 
public. I hope we can get a different reaction 
from the Pentagon and a more 
acceptable reaction from the Pentagon 
to this horrific state of affairs that has 
come to our attention. 

f 

ENSURING AMERICA’S FUTURE 
COMPETITIVENESS 
Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I 
also want to comment about another 

subject which is not as much on the 
minds of the American public, but it 
clearly is on the minds of some. 

There is an article that I ask unanimous 
consent be printed in the RECORD 
immediately following my remarks 
from today’s New York Times by William 
Broad entitled ‘‘U.S. Is Losing Its 
Dominance in the Sciences.’’ 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


(See exhibit 1.) 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I 
also ask unanimous consent that a 
speech Senator DASCHLE gave 2 weeks 
ago to the American Association for 
the Advancement of Science be printed 
in the RECORD following my remarks. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


(See exhibit 2.) 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, the 
author of this report on the front page 
of the New York Times today, Mr. 
Broad, points to several trends that are 
working against the United States 
with regard to our world leadership position 
in science and technology. He 
points out the percentage of patents 
issued to Americans is declining. He 
points out the portion of published research 
attributable to Americans in 
top physics journals is decreasing. He 
points out the number of Nobel Prizes 
awarded in the basic sciences to Americans 
is decreasing. He points out the 
number of doctoral degrees granted in 
science and engineering in this country 
is on the decline. He points out the declining 
percentage of science and engineering 
doctoral degree candidates 
from foreign countries who are planning 
to stay in the United States after 
they graduate. This last phenomenon I 
referred to has been dubbed ‘‘the reverse 
brain drain.’’ He talks extensively 
about that. 

The simple fact is, the world has become 
a highly competitive place with 
regard to science and technology leadership 
and talent and investments. We 
have historically believed we were the 
leaders in the world in this arena, and 
we have taken for granted the fact that 
promising young scientists and engineers 
from other countries would all 
want to come here, to stay here, and 
contribute to our continued world leadership. 
All of that is now in danger of 
changing. 

We ignore this challenge to our long-
term economic security at our own 
peril. This challenge requires strong efforts 
by our Government and our industry 
to counter the strong efforts that 
are being made in other countries, and 
to match the strong efforts that are 
being made in other countries in this 
field. 

So what needs to be done? Let me list 
briefly six areas on which I think we 
ought to take aggressive action. The 
first area relates to research frontiers. 
We need to start by focusing on broad 
support for basic science and engineering 
research across the board, as well 



May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4729 

as on targeted investments in critical 
emerging technologies that will drive 
future job growth and economic growth 
in this economy. 

Unfortunately, in terms of broad-
based basic research support, we have a 
pattern of underfunding across the 
physical sciences and engineering, and 
that is in comparison particularly to 
what we have been doing in biological 
and life sciences for several years. I do 
not advocate reducing our commitment 
to the biological and life sciences, but 
I strongly advocate a comparable commitment 
to maintaining our leadership 
in the physical sciences and engineering. 


In terms of targeted research and development, 
there are many areas where 
there are promising developments that 
we should be paying attention to. Let 
me cite three examples. One is high-
end computing. Japan today is the 
world leader in high-end computing 
with their Earth Simulator supercomputer. 
That is a sad statement to make 
on this Senate floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator’s time has expired. 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that I be permitted 
to continue for another 5 minutes. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. BINGAMAN. That is a sad statement 
because I can remember a decade 
ago when the United States was the 
unrivaled leader in high-end computing. 
We need to do much better in 
this field. 

Senator LAMAR ALEXANDER and I 
have introduced the High-End Computing 
Revitalization Act. I hope that 
the leadership in the Senate will see fit 
to move this legislation this year, and 
that we will receive strong support 
from our colleagues. 

Nanotechnology is another area. Although 
Congress passed a nanotechnology 
bill last year, and the President 
signed the bill with great fanfare, the 
truth is, we are not putting the needed 
funding into it. The administration has 
not requested sufficient funding. We 
are not committing the money. This is 
another major shortfall. 

The next specific area I believe we 
need to target is next-generation lighting. 
I have spoken several times about 
that on the Senate floor. Semiconductor 
lighting has the promise to 
greatly increase the efficiency of lighting 
devices and also to create an enormous 
number of jobs. The estimate is 
this will be a $12 billion per year industry 
for these devices in the future. The 
question is, where will the leadership 
be in developing these devices? Will we 
maintain some of that leadership in 
this country? And where will the high-
wage jobs be created by this? I hope 
those jobs will be created in the United 
States, but Congress needs to act to ensure 
that. 

A second area deals with the training 
of scientists and engineers. An enormous 
amount needs to be done to bet


ter prepare our own students for careers 
in these fields. We do too little in 
those areas. We need to do better. We 
now have the added concern that the 
foreign students who have traditionally 
come here to study are, first, finding 
visa problems that keep them from 
coming here; and, second, are deciding 
not to stay once they complete their 
education but go back to their home 
country. This is a precursor to the 
shifting of more and more research and 
development activity out of this country 
and into other countries around the 
world, which I think is a very bad 
trend for our economic future. 

The third area is infrastructure. The 
National Science Foundation estimates 
there are roughly $10 billion of unfilled 
needs for science and engineering facilities 
at universities. Unfortunately, 
the system we have in Congress today 
to fund these needs is through random, 
uncoordinated earmarks to appropriations 
bills. This is totally unacceptable. 
We need a merit-oriented solution 
that involves a look at the merits of 
the request and the need, and also the 
commitment that State and local governments 
are willing to make to creating 
this infrastructure. 

The fourth area is finance. We need 
public policies and strategies to expand 
the pool of risk capital for entrepreneurial 
investment. 

A fifth strategy is public-private sector 
interactions. We need to fully fund 
the Advanced Technology Program and 
the Manufacturing Extension Partnerships. 
The administration’s request 
that we zero-fund the Advanced Technology 
Program is totally wrongheaded, 
in my view, and clearly needs 
to be rejected by this Congress. We 
should have the Federal Government 
take a stronger role in supporting 
science parks and incubators around 
this country as well. 

The final area I would mention is 
regulation and trade policy. We need to 
recognize the strategic importance of 
legal or regulatory structures to high-
technology industries. We need to increase 
the efforts to protect intellectual 
property, to support fair competition 
regimes, to enforce legitimacy and 
transparency in the global market system, 
and to assure access by U.S. companies 
to these markets. 

We need to spend some time better 
monitoring and being sure we are getting 
fair treatment under the trade 
agreements we have already entered 
into instead of rushing forward pellmell 
trying to find new agreements we 
can sign. 

We need to focus on export promotion. 
There is way too little attention 
to export promotion. 

We need to focus on assistance programs 
for those people who are displaced 
and those communities that are 
damaged by increased trade. The current 
administration and, unfortunately, 
the Congress in the last few 
years have not done what needed to be 
done in this area. We have no formal 
science and technology policy. The ad


ministration has undermanned and 
seemingly neglected the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy. 

In previous remarks to the Senate, I 
have gone through a list of the proposed 
cuts by this administration to 
basic science and applied research in 
the Department of Defense, the Department 
of Energy, the Agriculture Department, 
in the transportation sector, 
the Department of Energy’s Office of 
Science, the Advanced Technology Program 
in the Department of Commerce. 

These include: 

$660 million in cuts proposed for basic 
and applied research at the Department 
of Defense, the sort of research 
that has the greatest potential for dual 
use and effective spin-off to the civilian 
high-technology industries; 

$63 million in cuts for energy conservation 
R&D at the Department of 
Energy; 

$183 million in cuts for FY 2005 for 
agricultural research; 

$24 million in cuts for transportation 
research; and 

$68 million in cuts for the Department 
of Energy’s Office of Science, a 
major supporter of basic physical 
sciences and engineering research—we 
have 40 Democratic Senators and 15 Republicans 
on a letter asking for increased 
funding rather than cuts here— 
and; 

total elimination of the Advanced 
Technology Program at the Department 
of Commerce, a loss of $171 million 
for new technologies that otherwise 
would have been enabled and 
brought to commercial reality. This is 
a highly successful program praised by 
the national academies and even the 
President’s own budget language, cut 
for short-sighted ideological reasons. 

For the sake of our future national 
competitiveness, we need to face up to 
the challenges and technological revolutions 
of the 21st century and ensure 
that the United States has an effective 
plan for taking them on. It would be 
my hope that the coming Presidential 
election will serve as an opportunity to 
reflect on the ineffective ways in which 
we are currently addressing these 
issues, and to put forth the case that 
we need a comprehensive change in our 
policies to ensure our future competitiveness. 


I yield the floor. 

EXHIBIT 1 
[From the New York Times, May 3, 2004] 
U.S. IS LOSING ITS DOMINANCE IN THE 
SCIENCES 
(By William J. Broad) 

The United States has started to lose its 
worldwide dominance in critical areas of 
science and innovation, according to federal 
and private experts who point to strong evidence 
like prizes awarded to Americans and 
the number of papers in major professional 
journals. 

Foreign advances in basic science now 
often rival or even exceed America’s, apparently 
with little public awareness of the 
trend or its implications for jobs, industry, 
national security or the vigor of the nation’s 
intellectual and cultural life. 

‘‘The rest of the world is catching up,’’ said 
John E. Jankowski, a senior analyst at the 


S4730 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

National Science Foundation, the federal 
agency that tracks science trends. ‘‘Science 
excellence is no longer the domain of just 
the U.S.’’ 

Even analysts worried by the trend concede 
that an expansion of the world’s brain 
trust, with new approaches, could invigorate 
the fight against disease, develop new 
sources of energy had wrestle with knotty 
environmental problems. But profits from 
the breakthroughs are likely to stay overseas, 
and this country will face competition 
for things like hiring scientific talent and 
getting space to showcase its work in top 
journals. 

One area of international competition involves 
patents. Americans still win large 
numbers of them, but the percentage is falling 
as foreigners, especially Asians, have become 
more active and in some fields have 
seized the innovation lead. The United 
States’ share of its own industrial patents 
has fallen steadily over the decades and now 
stands at 52 percent. 

A more concrete decline can be seen in 
published research. Physical Review, a series 
of top physics journals, recently tracked a 
reversal in which American papers, in two 
decades, fell from the most to a minority. 
Last year the total was just 29 percent, down 
from 61 percent in 1983. 

China, said Martin Blume, the journals’ 
editor, has surged ahead by submitting more 
than 1,000 papers a year. ‘‘Other scientific 
publishers are seeing the same kind of 
thing,’’ he added. 

Another downturn centers on the Nobel 
Prizes, an icon of scientific excellence. Traditionally, 
the United States, powered by 
heavy federal investments in basic research, 
the kind that pursue fundamental questions 
of nature, dominated the awards. 

But the American share, after peaking 
from the 1960’s through the 1990’s, has fallen 
in the 2000’s to about half, 51 percent. The 
rest went to Britain, Japan, Russia, Germany, 
Sweden, Switzerland and New Zealand. 


‘‘We are in a new world, and it’s increasingly 
going to be dominated by countries 
other than the United States,’’ Denis Simon, 
dean of management and technology at the 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, recently 
said at a scientific meeting in Washington. 

Europe and Asia are ascendant, analysts 
say, even if their achievements go unnoticed 
in the United States. In March, for example, 
European scientists announced that one of 
their planetary probes had detected methane 
in the atmosphere of Mars—a possible sign 
that alien microbes live beneath the planet’s 
surface. The finding made headlines from 
Paris to Melbourne. But most Americans, 
bombarded with images from America’s own 
rovers successfully exploring the red planet, 
missed the foreign news. 

More aggressively, Europe is seeking to 
dominate particle physics by building the 
world’s most powerful atom smasher, set for 
its debut in 2007. Its circular tunnel is 17 
miles around. 

Science analysts say Asia’s push for excellence 
promises to be even more challenging. 

‘‘It’s unbelievable,’’ Diana Hicks, chairwoman 
of the school of public policy at the 
Georgia Institute of Technology, said of 
Asia’s growth in science and technical innovation. 
‘‘It’s amazing to see these output 
numbers of papers and patents going up so 
fast.’’ 

Analysts say comparative American declines 
are an inevitable result of rising 
standards of living around the globe. 

‘‘It’s all in the ebb and flow of 
globalization,’’ said Jack Fritz, a senior officer 
at the National Academy of Engineering, 
an advisory body to the federal government. 
He called the declines ‘‘the next big thing we 
will have to adjust to.’’ 

The rapidly changing American status has 
not gone unnoticed by politicians, with 
Democrats on the attack and the White 
House on the defensive. 

‘‘We stand at a pivotal moment,’’ Tom 
Daschle, the Senate Democratic leader, recently 
said at a policy forum in Washington 
at the American Association for the Advancement 
of Science, the nation’s top general 
science group. ‘‘For all our past successes, 
there are disturbing signs that America’s 
dominant position in the scientific 
world is being shaken.’’ 

Mr. Daschle accused the Bush administration 
of weakening the nation’s science base 
by failing to provide enough money for cut-
ting-edge research. 

The president’s science adviser, John H. 
Marburger III, who attended the forum, 
strongly denied that charge, saying in an 
interview that overall research budgets during 
the Bush administration have soared to 
record highs and that the science establishment 
is strong. 

‘‘The sky is not falling on science,’’ Dr. 
Marburger said. ‘‘Maybe there are some 
clouds—no, things that need attention.’’ Any 
problems, he added, are within the power of 
the United States to deal with in a way that 
maintains the vitality of the research enterprise. 


Analysts say Mr. Daschle and Dr. 
Marburger can both supply data that supports 
their positions. 

A major question, they add, is whether big 
spending automatically translates into big 
rewards, as it did in the past. During the cold 
war, the government pumped more than $1 
trillion into research, with a wealth of benefits 
including lasers, longer life expectancies, 
men on the Moon and the prestige of many 
Nobel Prizes. 

Today, federal research budgets are still 
record highs; this year more than $126 billion 
has been allocated to research. Moreover, 
American industry makes extensive use of 
federal research in producing its innovations 
and adds its own vast sums of money, the 
combination dwarfing that of any other nation 
or bloc. 

But the edifice is less formidable than it 
seems, in part because of the nation’s costly 
and unique military role. This year, financing 
for military research hit $66 billion, 
higher in fixed dollars than in the cold war 
and far higher than in any other country. 

For all the spending, the United States 
began to experience a number of scientific 
declines in the 1990’s, boom years for the nation’s 
overall economy. 

For instance, scientific papers by Americans 
peaked in 1992 and then fell roughly 10 
percent, the National Science Foundation reports. 
Why? Many analysts point to rising 
foreign competition, as does the European 
Commission, which also monitors global 
science trends. In a study last year, the commission 
said Europe surpassed the United 
States in the mid-1990’s as the world’s largest 
producer of scientific literature. 

Dr. Hicks of Georgia Tech said that American 
scientists, when top journals reject 
their papers, usually have no idea that rising 
foreign competition may be to blame. 

On another front, the numbers of new doctorates 
in the sciences peaked in 1998 and 
then fell 5 percent the next year, a loss of 
more than 1,300 new scientists, according to 
the foundation. 

A minor exodus also hit one of the hidden 
strengths of American science: vast ranks of 
bright foreigners. In a significant shift of demographics, 
they began to leave in what experts 
call a reverse brain drain. After peaking 
in the mid-1990’s, the number of doctoral 
students from China, India and Taiwan with 
plans to stay in the United States began to 
fall by the hundreds, according to the foundation. 


These declines are important, analysts say, 
because new scientific knowledge is an engine 
of the American Economy and technical 
innovation, its influence evident in everything 
from potent drugs to fast computer 
chips. 

Patents are a main way that companies 
and inventors reap commercial rewards from 
their ideas and stay competitive in the marketplace 
while improving the lives of million. 


Foreigners outside the United States are 
playing an increasingly important role in 
these expressions of industrial creativity. In 
a recent study, CHI Research, a consulting 
firm in Haddon Height, N.J., found that researchers 
in Japan, Taiwan and South Korea 
now account for more than a quarter of all 
United States industrial patents awarded 
each year, generating revenue for their own 
countries and limiting it in the United 
States. 

Moreover, their growth rates are rapid. Between 
1980 and 2003, South Korea went from 
0 to 2 percent of the total, Taiwan from 0 to 
3 percent and Japan from 12 to 21 percent. 

‘‘It’s not just lots of patents,’’ Francis 
Narin, CHI’s president, said of the Asian rise. 
‘‘It’s lots of good patents that have a high 
impact,’’ as measured by how often subsequent 
patents cite them. 

Recently, Dr. Narin added, both Taiwan 
and Singapore surged ahead of the United 
States in the overall number of citations. 
Singapore’s patents include ones in chemicals, 
semiconductors, electronics and industrial 
tools. 

China represents the next wave, experts 
agree, its scientific rise still too fresh to 
show up in most statistics but already apparent. 
Dr. Simon of Rensselaer said that about 
400 foreign companies had recently set up research 
centers in China, with General Electric, 
for instance, doing important work 
there on medical scanners, which means 
fewer skilled jobs in America. 

Ross Armbrecht, president of the Industrial 
Research Institute, a nonprofit group in 
Washington that represents large American 
companies, said businesses were going to 
China not just because of low costs but to 
take advantage of China’s growing scientific 
excellence. 

‘‘It’s frightening,’’ Dr. Armbrecht said. 
‘‘But you’ve got to go where the horses are.’’ 
An eventual danger, he added, is the slow 
loss of intellectual property as local professionals 
start their own businesses with what 
they have learned from American companies. 

For the United States, future trends look 
challenging, many analysts say. 

In a report last month, the American Association 
for the Advancement of Science said 
the Bush administration, to live up to its 
pledge to halve the nation’s budget deficit in 
the next five years, would cut research financing 
at 21 of 24 Federal agencies—all 
those that do or finance science except those 
involved in space and national and domestic 
security. 

More troubling to some experts is the likelihood 
of an accelerating loss of quality scientists. 
Applications from foreign graduate 
students to research universities are down 
by a quarter, experts say, partly because of 
the Federal government’s tightening of visas 
after the 2001 terrorist attacks. 

Shirley Ann Jackson, president of the 
American Association for the Advancement 
of Science, told the recent forum audience 
that the drop in foreign students, the apparently 
declining interest of young Americans 
in science careers and the aging of the technical 
work force were, taken together, a perilous 
combination of developments. 

‘‘Who,’’ she asked, ‘‘will do the science of 
this millennium?’’ 

Several private groups, including the 
Council on Competitiveness, an organization 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4731 

in Washington that seeks policies to promote 
industrial vigor, have begun to agitate for 
wide debate and action. 

‘‘Many other countries have realized that 
science and technology are key to economic 
growth and prosperity,’’ said Jennifer Bond, 
the council’s vice president for international 
affairs. ‘‘They’re catching up to us,’’ she 
said, warning Americans not to ‘‘rest on our 
laurels.’’ 

REMARKS OF SENATE DEMOCRATIC LEADER 

TOM DASCHLE TO THE AMERICAN ASSOCIA


TION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE 

Thank you, Dr. [Shirley] Jackson, for that 
warm introduction, and for the tremendous 
work you are doing. Few people alive today 
can claim to have done as much to advance 
both the cause, and the frontiers of science. 

It is a great honor for me to address such 
a distinguished group of scientists and 
thinkers. Since my childhood, I’ve been fascinated 
with science, perhaps because I knew 
my father had hoped to become a geologist 
before World War II called. But any child of 
South Dakota grows up with an appreciation 
for the impact science has on our lives. 
Whether it’s the work of agricultural geneticists 
improving crop yields, or simply paleontologists 
explaining the fossils of Rapid 
City’s Dinosaur Park, science has a special 
place in South Dakota. I chose a different 
path than a life of science, but I’ve always 
been mindful of John Adam’s letter to his 
wife, Abigail, in which he wrote, ‘‘I must 
study politics and war [so] that my sons may 
have liberty to study mathematics and philosophy.’’ 
Sooner or later, every elected official 
needs to come up with a justification for 
the demands of public office to their husband 
or wife. I wish I could come up with something 
as good as John Adams. 

Whatever Adams motivation was for the 
comment, I share his understanding of the 
relationship between politics and science. 
Elected officials have an obligation to maintain 
our nation’s prosperity and peace, not 
merely for their own sake, but because they 
provide our citizens the liberty to pursue the 
higher callings of the mind. History best remembers 
not the civilizations that have done 
the most to expand their borders, but those 
civilizations that have done the most to expand 
the boundaries of human understanding. 
These are the accomplishments 
that resonate through the centuries, and it is 
the work of America’s scientists that will 
serve as our testimony to history. 

For all the grandeur of intellectual pursuits, 
America’s interest in scientific 
progress has a pragmatic urgency as well. 
Today, your discoveries matter more to our 
every day life than at any other point in 
human history. Biotechnology and genetics, 
not to mention the steady progress of medical 
science and nanotechnology, are extending 
and improving our lives. The physics of 
computer science is sparking new industries 
that employ millions of Americans and enhance 
the productivity and well-being of 
countless more.. On the battlefield and in 
the laboratory, the war on terrorism is being 
waged, not just with soldiers, but with software 
armed with artificial intelligence algorithms. 
America’s health, prosperity, and security 
are tied to your success. And as a result, 
our obligation to ensure you have the 
freedom and resources necessary to advance 
your work is more pressing than ever before. 

This tension between science for the sake 
of human understanding, and science for the 
sake of human well-being has marked our 
history since its first days. Even de 
Tocqueville thought democracies were ill-
equipped to support pure scientific research. 
The more democratic a society, he wrote 
‘‘the more will discoveries immediately ap


plicable to productive industry confer gain, 
fame, and even power on their authors.’’ 

But our Founding Fathers had different 
ideas. Many, most notably Jefferson and 
Franklin, considered themselves men of 
science and the government they designed 
their most daring and novel invention. Jefferson 
once wrote to a friend, ‘‘We have 
spent the prime of our lives procuring the 
precious blessing of liberty. Let [young men] 
spend theirs in shewing that it is the great 
parent of science and of virtue.’’ So vital was 
this idea to the American experiment, that 
the very first coin minted in our country 
bore the motto, Liberty, Parent of Science 
and Industry. 

When Jefferson sent Merriwether Lewis 
across the continent to map the land that 
held our nation’s future, he understood the 
expedition would have two results. It would 
serve practical purposes such as easing the 
westward expansion of the nation and creating 
new trade relationships with the Indian 
populations. At the same time, the expedition 
captured Jefferson’s scientific 
heart. In fact, his first choice to lead the expedition 
was a French botanist. Jefferson 
changed his mind, and after offering Lewis 
an education in botany, geology, geography, 
and the finer points of navigation, he gave 
the Lewis a broad and simple directive: explore. 
The information Lewis and his men 
brought back represented immense steps forward 
for American sciences from anthropology 
to zoology and many in between. 

In many ways, Jefferson’s leadership and 
the Lewis & Clark expedition established the 
model for government’s partnership with 
science. And in the 200 years since, government 
support for scientific research had 
helped invent the telegraph, split the atom, 
conquer space, create the Internet, map the 
human genome, and much more. No nation 
has ever made such an enduring and significant 
investment in science, and no nation’s 
scientists have done as much to demystify 
our world and better the quality of life on 
earth. 

In the years before World War II, America 
became the adopted home of a generation of 
scientists fleeing fascism in Europe. Never 
was the importance of a free society to 
science more clear. The physicist Emilio 
Sergre´ was among those who came to America, 
emigrating in 1938, and eventually working 
on the Manhattan Project. ‘‘America,’’ 
he wrote at the time, ‘‘ looks like the land of 
the future.’’ 

America has always been the land of the 
future. Throughout our history, we have 
maintained a remarkable devotion to the 
simple idea that our children’s lives should 
be better, safer, and richer than our own. 
This simple idea that we call the American 
dream has been made real because of the 
myriad contributions of Americans scientists. 


Today, we stand at a pivotal moment. For 
all our past successes, there are disturbing 
signs that America’s dominant position in 
the scientific world is being shaken. According 
to a recent study, America’s rate of scientific 
discovery is lagging behind that of 
European countries. The number of scientific 
papers published by American researchers 
declined last year, and has been flat for the 
past several years. In contrast, every country 
in Europe has increased its rate of discovery. 
In the last two decades of the 20th 
century, France, Germany, and the United 
Kingdom doubled their production of doctorates 
in science and engineering. Japan doubled 
its production of science and engineering 
doctorates in just one of those decades. If 
this stagnation is allowed to continue, it will 
have profound implications for every aspect 
of American society. If we are to remain the 
land of the future, we must reaffirm the 

partnership that created America’s dominant 
position within the world of science. 

Regrettably, rather than strengthening 
this partnership, I fear that the Bush Administration 
has allowed it to erode in two critical 
ways. First, the Administration is abdicating 
its responsibility to provide scientists 
with the funding cutting-edge research demands. 
As you know, the federal government 
has seen its R&D investments steadily decline 
as a share of the U.S. economy, bringing 
the federal investment down to levels not 
seen since the mid-60s. Public-sector investments 
in advanced research have declined 
sharply, relative to our economic growth 
rate, and barely kept pace with inflation. 
This year, federal funding for research is set 
to increase 4.7 percent. However, the entire 
increase would go to the Department of Defense 
and Homeland Security for the development 
of weapons systems and counterterrorism 
technology. Make no mistake, these 
are necessary investments that will make 
our nation safer. But the remaining federal 
R&D budget that supports research into 
health, environmental, biological, and other 
sciences, will all see funding reduced. 

In my home state of South Dakota, for instance, 
the Earth Research Observation System 
is facing the possibility of deep cuts in 
staff due to cuts to their budget. Their work 
helps us become more responsible stewards 
of the environment, while increasing the 
yields of farmers all over the world. And yet, 
this work is endangered due to draconian 
budget cuts. 

But the administration’s disregard for 
science extends beyond budgetary choices. 
Just last month, the Union of Concerned Scientists 
released a report charging the White 
House with systematically working against 
the spirit of objective science. The report 
states that the Bush Administration has suppressed 
or distorted the scientific analyses 
offered federal agencies to bring these results 
in line with administration policy. 
Time and time again, the Administration is 
choosing politics over real science. 

Consider the administration’s response to 
global warming. Even though the scientific 
community is united on the fact that fossil 
fuel production and consumption has contributed 
to global warming, the White House 
deleted that finding from its 2001 report on 
Global Warming, and in its place inserted a 
reference to an opposing study that was financed 
by the American Petroleum Institute. 


In addition, when the administration has 
had the opportunity, it has stacked the deck 
by staffing research boards and advisory 
councils with under-qualified researchers 
who have shown allegiance to the White 
House’s political goals. Just recently, the 
President dismissed two advisers from his 
Council on Bioethics because they were outspoken 
proponents of research on human embryos. 


This is not real science. This is vending 
machine science. The administration thinks 
it can pull a lever and get the results it 
wants at no cost. But the costs are extraordinary. 
If history shows anything, it’s that a 
bet against science is a bet you cannot win. 
For the sake of short-term political posturing, 
the White House is putting the long-
term security, health, and prosperity of our 
nation at risk. 

Just as importantly, America’s reputation 
as a home for cutting edge science is being 
diminished. I am hearing from more and 
more friends in the science community that 
they are concerned about the support and reception 
their work will receive in the years 
to come. They worry that the administration’s 
failure to provide intellectual leadership 
will erode the high standing American 


S4732 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

science has achieved since WWII. And I fear 
their apprehension is well justified. 

But we should be honest with ourselves. 
Outside the scientific community, there is 
no hue and cry for more government funding 
of R&D. There is no widespread public outrage 
when the administration disregards the 
unequivocal judgment of the scientific community. 
And it’s unlikely that the science 
gap growing between the United States and 
other developed nations will become a major 
issue in the upcoming Presidential campaign. 


This represents a failure on our part. We 
have not done enough to show the American 
people the connection between the work underway 
in your laboratories and the problems 
that affect their lives. This must 
change. The stakes simply could not be higher. 
What future challenge will we fail to 
meet because America’s scientists were not 
given the tools they need to discover new answers 
to old questions? When rumors of a 
Nazi bomb program reached President Roosevelt, 
he said simply, ‘‘Whatever the enemy 
may be planning, American science will be 
equal to the challenge.’’ Will future presidents 
be able to speak with such confidence? 

The challenge to the American scientific 
community is to rebuild the link not only 
between science and government, but between 
science and society. I believe we can 
do so, if we return to the model established 
by Thomas Jefferson. There is an implicit 
ongoing debate within the government regarding 
what kind of research is most important 
to support. Some suggest that we 
should put no limits on the kind of research 
we support and have faith that advances in 
theoretical science, regardless of the field, 
will inevitably translate into practical applications 
that improve human life. 

For others, that approach is too abstract. 
There are real problems, and to spend taxpayer 
dollars on anything but the most pragmatic 
search for solutions seems high-minded, 
but naive. There is merit to each approach. 
Both kinds of research are critical. 

But Jefferson offered a third way, and, I 
believe, the right way to make the best use 
of government’s resources, and gain the full 
support of the American People for the efforts 
of science. Merriwether Lewis’s expedition 
represented a basic attempt to enlarge 
the scope of America’s understanding of the 
world around it. It was the stuff of doctoral 
dissertations. At the same time, because the 
mission was targeted at the urgent needs of 
an expanding nation, the voyage captured 
the support of Washington and the imagination 
of our young country. 

America saw another tremendous example 
of this in recent years in the Human Genome 
Project. The effort pooled the combined wisdom 
of biology, chemistry, physics, engineering, 
mathematics, and computer science, 
tapped the strengths and insights of the public 
and private sectors, brought together 
1,000 researchers from six different nations 
to reveal all 3 billion letters of the human 
genetic code. Few endeavors have brought 
together such diverse disciplines for a single 
and pure pursuit of scientific knowledge. The 
discoveries of the Human Genome Project 
have created extraordinary promise in the 
field of medicine, and brought to life an industry 
that could lead the American economy 
for a generation to come. 

It has been nearly four years since the 
human Genome Project concluded its primary 
objective. If the science policy of this 
Administration has failed in any way, it has 
failed here: it has yet to point the way to the 
next great frontier of human understanding. 
It has yet to call scientists from every discipline 
to a single mission of public service. 

Today, we need to rally once again around 
common goals, and put the broad interests of 

the nation ahead of the narrow boundaries of 
scientific disciplines. Surely there is no 
shortage of challenges. Should we not set our 
nation’s physicists, chemists engineers, and 
geologists to the task of freeing our nation 
from the need to import oil? Can we create 
the scientific and technological foundations 
for affordable, carbon-free energy sources? 
Can we ‘‘level the playing field’’ for American 
researchers that lack the resources of 
our nation’s wealthiest universities? Is it beyond 
our imagination to address the major 
challenges of developing countries—such as 
cures and vaccines for AIDS, TB and malaria? 
In addition to the obvious moral and 
ethical imperative to do so, the economic 
and foreign policy benefits from harnessing 
our scientific and technical talent to foster 
sustainable development would be profound. 

Let me suggest one final goal that could 
occupy the best efforts of scientists from 
every discipline for a generation to come. 
Now that we have surveyed the map of 
human life, let us turn our attention to that 
which makes human life unique: the mind. 
What challenge would be beyond our reach if 
we truly understood how we learn, remember, 
think and communicate? What could we 
accomplish if our education policy was bolstered 
with a new understanding of how children 
learn? How much safer could our neighborhoods 
be, if neurophysiology solves the 
puzzle of addiction? What industry would not 
be strengthened by a more complete picture 
of the workings of the mind? There is perhaps 
no field in which major advances would 
have more profound effects for human 
progress and health than that of neuroscience. 
If the American scientific community 
could come together and communicate 
to the nation the kaleidoscopic possibilities 
that could result if we unlocked the secrets 
of the mind, we could not only achieve untold 
advances in science, we could open a 
new chapter in the story of America’s support 
for science. 

Investments in science and technology are 
the ultimate act of hope, and will create 
among the most important legacies we can 
leave. America is still, as Emilio Segre´ said 
decades ago, the land of the future. We have 
held that honor since this continent was discovered 
by a daring act of science more than 
500 years ago. We have earned it anew with 
each passing generation because America’s 
scientists and public officials have understood 
the importance of applying the power 
of American curiosity to most intractable 
American challenges. 

The hallmark of American science is not 
that we have been able to overcome each new 
frontier. The hallmark of American science 
is that having conquered one, we impatiently 
seek out new, more distant and difficult 
frontiers. America will be able to call ourselves 
the land of the future so long as we 
dream that the future holds a better life for 
ourselves, and so long as those of us who, in 
Adam’s words, study politics, continue to invest 
in your ability to make that dream real. 

f 

RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Arizona. 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the time for the two 
leaders be reserved for their use later 
in the day. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

OVERTIME REGULATIONS 
Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I rise to 
speak to the legislation we are going to 

be taking up when we go back to S. 
1637, called the Jumpstart Our Business 
Strength Act, which will attempt to 
modify the law relative to how we 
treat manufacturing firms in tax policy 
to comply with rulings of the World 
Trade Organization and related legislation. 


There is an amendment pending that 
will be offered by Senator HARKIN that 
relates to final regulations issued last 
week by the Department of Labor. I 
would like to speak to why we should 
quickly dispense with that Harkin 
amendment to move on with the S. 1637 
and not get bogged down in the regulations 
that were issued by the Department 
of Labor. 

The regulations issued a final rule to 
update the previous regulations that 
implemented the Fair Labor Standards 
Act. That act implements rules guaranteeing 
overtime pay for certain 
nonwhite collar workers—in other 
words, when somebody works longer 
than the period they would ordinarily 
be required to work, what circumstances 
the employer is required to 
then pay overtime pay for that additional 
work. The rules the Department 
of Labor has had in effect have not 
been modified for over a quarter of a 
century. The salary levels to which 
these regulations apply have not been 
changed since 1975. The duties test has 
actually not changed since 1949. That is 
the test that tries to define whether a 
worker is a white collar worker who 
would be exempt from this requirement 
or a blue collar worker who would be 
guaranteed overtime if they worked 
longer than they are supposed to. What 
this has done is to leave employers 
with very obsolete job classifications, 
things such as straw boss and leg man, 
other titles for work that have not 
been performed for years. That needed 
to be fixed. 

The Department of Labor had been 
struggling to try to bring it up to date 
and get final rules into place, which 
now has been done. A lot of the concerns 
expressed by supporters of the 
Harkin amendment are based on interpretations 
or misreadings of the previously 
proposed rule. But a lot of that 
has now been cleared up in the final 
rule made effective last week. Much of 
the criticism should fall by the wayside. 


Let me describe what the final rule 
does. It would guarantee overtime benefits 
to 1.3 million low-wage workers 
who before were not entitled to overtime 
pay. Under this rule, 6.7 million 
new employees must be paid overtime 
regardless of their duties. That is 1.3 
million more than is currently the 
case. It would raise the minimum salary 
level at which workers are ensured 
overtime pay from $155 to $455 a week 
or $23,660 annually. That is the largest 
increase since the law was enacted in 
1938. Under the previous regulations, 
individuals earning the minimum 
wage, which would be about $10,700 a 
year, were not guaranteed overtime. 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4733 

They must be classified by their employers 
as nonexempt in order to receive 
overtime. The previous regulations 
guaranteed only employees earning 
less than $8,000 a year a nonexempt 
status—in other words, guaranteed 
minimum wage. This regulation updates 
all of that. 

The work the Department of Labor 
has done is going to help a lot of Americans. 
Over 6.7 million Americans will 
now be guaranteed this overtime pay 
and a lot more than that will probably 
get it, depending upon exactly what 
kind of work they perform. Under the 
new regulations, employees who earn 
more than $100,000 annually would be 
exempted, but here again, even they 
would only be exempted if they regularly 
and customarily perform executive, 
administrative, or professional 
duties. Even somebody with earnings 
over $100,000 a year could get overtime 
pay. The Department of Labor estimates 
only about 107,000 employees 
who earn $100,000 or more could be reclassified 
as white collar employees 
and potentially lose their overtime 
pay. Those who earn between $23,660 
and $100,000 will remain eligible for 
overtime pay if they meet the so-called 
‘‘short test,’’ which determines whether 
they are exempted white collar employees 
or not. 

Let me respond to some of the misinterpretations. 
There was a view that 
a lot of folks would not be guaranteed 
pay. The new rules explicitly define 
certain groups as being guaranteed 
pay. For example, first responders, police 
officers, firefighters, paramedics, 
emergency medical technicians, and 
similar public safety officers are entitled 
overtime pay. 

I ask unanimous consent to print in 
the RECORD a statement from the Fraternal 
Order of Police relating to these 
regulations. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
FINAL DOL REGULATIONS PROTECT AND EX


PAND OVERTIME FOR AMERICA’S FIRST RE


SPONDERS 

F.O.P. EFFORTS CRUCIAL TO PROTECTION OF 
OVERTIME FOR PUBLIC SAFETY 
Today National President Chuck Canterbury 
hailed the release of the Department of 
Labor’s (DOL) final regulations on the exemptions 
from overtime under the Fair 
Labor Standards Act (FLSA) as an ‘‘unprecedented 
victory’’ for America’s first responders. 
The regulations, which were first proposed 
in March 2003, highlight the F.O.P.’s 
singular and significant contribution to protecting 
the future of overtime compensation 
for State and local police officers, firefighters 
and EMTs. 

‘‘The Fraternal Order of Police is extremely 
grateful for the work of Secretary of 
Labor Elaine L. Chao and Wage & Hour Administrator 
Tammy McCutchen to take into 
consideration and incorporate the views of 
the F.O.P. in developing their final regulations,’’ 
Canterbury said. ‘‘Since the beginning, 
the F.O.P. was alone in its confidence 
in this Administration’s commitment to our 
nation’s first responders, and their intention 
to resolve this issue to the benefit of these 
vital public servants.’’ 

On the preamble to the final regulations, 
the Department of Labor acknowledged that 

it was responding specifically to the views of 
the Fraternal Order of Police ‘‘about the impact 
of the proposed regulations on police officers, 
firefighters, paramedics, emergency 
medical technicians (EMTs) and other first 
responders.’’ DOL went on the note that the 
current regulations do not explicitly address 
the exempt status of these employees, and 
‘‘this silence . . . has resulted in significant 
federal court litigation to determine whether 
such employees meet the requirements for 
exemption.’’ 

The final Part 541 regulations make several 
important changes for public safety employees. 
for the first time ever, the regulations 
clarify that neither the regulations 
contained in 29 CFR nor the Section 13(a)(1) 
exemptions apply to police officers, firefighters, 
EMTs and other first responders 
who perform public safety work. The regulations 
go on to clarify why these employees, 
regardless of their rank or pay level, cannot 
be classified as executive, administrative or 
professional employees, and thus be exempted 
from receiving overtime pay. In addition, 
the Department acknowledges that the right 
to overtime compensation may be extended 
to some public safety employees who are currently 
classified as exempt because of 
changes to the regulations. 

‘‘Where others were content to ask the Department 
to say in its final rule only that 
‘no expansion of law enforcement exemptions 
is included in or intended by the new 
rules,’ the Fraternal Order of Police said ‘today’s 
public safety work is more unique than 
ever before, and the final regulations must 
account for the challenges faced by our nation’s 
first responders in the post-9/11 environment,’’’ 
Canterbury said. ‘‘The final regulations 
achieve that goal.’’ 

On 31 March 2003, the Department of Labor 
published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
in the Federal Register to revise and update 
the exemptions from overtime under the 
FLSA for executive, administrative, and professional 
employees; also known as the Part 
541 or ‘‘white collar’’ exemptions. Immediately, 
the clarion call spread across the nation 
that the Department was trying to take 
away the right to overtime pay for hundreds 
of thousands of police officers, firefighters 
and EMTs. 

During the public comment period, the 

F.O.P. worked with the International Association 
of Firefighters (AFL–CIO) to seek 
clarification of the Department’s intent with 
respect to the overtime eligibility of public 
safety employees—an issue which was not 
explicitly addressed in the proposed rule. In 
late June, the F.O.P. submitted its formal 
written comments to the Department. It was 
the first organization to weigh in on behalf 
of America’s law enforcement community regarding 
the proposed changes, and advised 
DOL about the potential impact of the proposal 
on public safety employees. 
‘‘We were never concerned that DOL was 
trying to destroy the ability of police officers 
and others to earn overtime compensation, 
despite the rhetoric employed by other 
groups and some legislators to vilify and demonize 
Secretary Chao,’’ Canterbury said. 
‘‘Rather, we believed it was important to 
point out that the regulations as proposed 
did not sufficiently recognize the increased 
workloads and hazards faced by public safety 
employees since the heinous terrorist attacks 
of September 11, 2001, and to use that 
as the basis for our efforts.’’ 

Canterbury explained that while the F.O.P. 
faced strident and often vitriolic opposition 
from other organizations who viewed this as 
a fight to maintain the status quo, the 

F.O.P. never considered this to be a viable 
solution because of the number of public 
safety officers currently classified as exempt 
under the existing regulations. Instead, the 
F.O.P. viewed the proposal as a unique opportunity 
to correct the application of the 
overtime provisions of the FLSA to public 
safety officers. 
‘‘These final regulations show that this 
Administration and this Department of 
Labor are responsive to the concerns of rank 
and file first responders,’’ Canterbury said. 
‘‘There has been too much posturing and 
rumor mongering on this issue by the leadership 
of other police organizations, who have 
seemed intent on sacrificing their members’ 
paychecks on the altar of partisan politics. I 
hope that those who have been so employed 
over the course of the past year can see the 
folly of their ways, and that we can all recognize 
this for what it truly is: an unprecedented 
victory for police officers and their 
families.’’ 

Mr. KYL. The Fraternal Order of Police 
is one of the groups very interested 
in this issue. It is the largest organization 
of sworn law enforcement officers, 
and obviously they are in support of 
the first responders being exempt from 
the nonguarantee—in other words, 
being guaranteed overtime pay. 

Another group is nurses. The licensed 
practical nurses and other similar 
health care employees will be entitled 
to overtime pay under the new regulations. 
Originally unions had asserted to 
the contrary, but that is not the case. 
With respect to registered nurses, they 
are already exempted professionals 
under current law. The new rule will 
not change that. Explicitly blue collar 
workers are identified as entitled to 
overtime pay. 

There was a question about cooks. 
They are entitled to overtime pay. The 
only people in that group that might 
not be are college degree chefs who 
have degrees in culinary arts, who supervise 
others in work they do. Paralegals 
will be entitled to overtime pay. 
Public sector inspectors, people such as 
building inspectors, will be entitled to 
overtime pay. Union courts, collective 
bargaining agreements in States will 
not be affected by the rule. This is another 
area that has been grossly misrepresented. 


The bottom line is this final rule will 
bring clarity. It defines specific categories 
of people who will be guaranteed 
pay and, therefore, shuts down a 
lot of the litigation that has been 
based on the fact that the law has not 
been explicit or very clear. The confusing 
and outdated current or previous 
regulation has been a gold mine 
for trial lawyers, and there are a lot of 
articles that have recently been published 
that point out some of the 
abuses. The number of lawsuits in this 
area has doubled since the 1990s. Class 
action lawsuits have tripled since 1997. 
The number of these suits has actually 
surpassed the EEOC class action lawsuits 
in number. 

While the trial lawyers have made 
out very well off of the confusion of the 
previous regulations, the plaintiff’s 
benefit is significantly smaller. For example, 
in a recent Oregon lawsuit, 
which the Presiding Officer will be interested 
in, fast food restaurant workers 
each received $1,300, while the trial 
lawyers received $1.5 million. In a similar 
California case, workers got $2,800 


S4734 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

while the trial lawyers were awarded 
almost $4 million. 

Let me conclude by making a point 
that part of the confusion is due to objections 
by the AFL–CIO. Even before 
the final rule was made public, they 
were criticizing it, producing TV advertisements, 
misrepresenting the effect 
of the new rule. This is especially distressing 
given the fact—I know this 
personally from the Secretary of 
Labor, who had spent untold numbers 
of hours working on this—it was their 
intention to try to take in all of the 
criticisms and comments and blend 
them into a rule that made sense for 
workers. She did this, and then to have 
it attacked before it is finalized, with 
misrepresentations, is very unfair. 

Prior to drafting a rule, the Department 
of Labor held over 40 stakeholder 
meetings with 50 different interested 
groups, including 16 different unions, 
and invited 80 groups to participate in 
these so-called stakeholder meetings. 
It was not as if this were done without 
the input of people clearly interested 
in it. 

The amendment that is in order when 
we take up the bill is the Harkin 
amendment. It is unclear precisely 
what the wording of the amendment 
will be, but obviously the intent is to 
preclude the regulations from fully 
taking effect. 

I urge my colleagues, after they review 
that language, to quickly dispose 
of the amendment so we can move on 
to the important business of passing 
the underlying JOBS bill. As we know, 
the only group of employees that is not 
going to be guaranteed overtime under 
the new regulations is those making 
over $100,000 or more. The theory there 
is they are in a position to negotiate 
their own salary. 

Just to conclude, if this new rule is 
not allowed to go into effect, the biggest 
winners under the new rule, which 
are the low-income workers, will be the 
biggest losers. We need to put this into 
effect, clear up the confusion, and create 
the specific categories that are 
guaranteed overtime pay or these people 
are going to lose. The police, the 
firefighters, the lower income people, 
the blue collar workers are not going 
to be assured overtime pay. Remember, 
it only previously would guarantee 
anybody with $8,000 or less the overtime 
pay they should be entitled to. 

The effect of the Harkin amendment 
will be to hurt workers, not to help 
them. It is my hope that, again, we can 
quickly dispense with the Harkin 
amendment, defeat that amendment, 
support the regulations, the new rules 
that have been adopted by the Department 
of Labor, let them go into effect, 
and see how they work; in the meantime, 
move on with S. 1637, the underlying 
legislation, the purpose of which 
is to finally get our manufacturing industry 
back on even par with our competitors, 
particularly in the European 
market. That is legislation we have to 
pass because of the tariffs that are 
being imposed each month until we 
comply with the ruling of the WTO. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Florida. 

Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, 
I ask unanimous consent I be allowed 
to speak for 15 minutes, and I include 
in that request Senator REID of 
Nevada who has asked to follow me for 
an additional 15 minutes. 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, reserving 
the right to object, there is a division 
of time between the two sides. Could I 
suggest that regarding the remarks of 
the Senator from Florida with the Senator 
from Nevada, that they get together 
and figure out the time to speak 
if it will not be under leader time? Is 
that acceptable? 

I will object to the request and try to 
talk to the Senator. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The objection is heard. 

The Senator from Florida. 

Mr. NELSON of Florida. Is the unanimous 
consent request that I made that 
I be allowed to speak for 15 minutes, is 
that acceptable? 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
It has been objected to. 

Mr. NELSON of Florida. I ask unanimous 
consent that I be allowed to 
speak for 15 minutes, and if there is a 
Member on the other side of the aisle 
who would like to speak for 15 minutes, 
that they be allowed to do so, as well. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

THE POLARIZED SENATE 
Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, 
that is an interesting segue into 
what I wanted to talk about, the polarized 
nature today of the Senate. 
At times, this Senate has become so 
partisan, and increasingly so now, that 
it is in gridlock. There seems to be a 
playing out of ‘‘gotcha’’ politics that 
has poisoned the atmosphere in Washington, 
DC, so that it is hard to get the 
people’s business done. 
When I had the privilege of coming 4 
years ago to the Senate, I had read the 
histories of the great leaders of this 
body and the extraordinary consensus 
and bipartisanship, that they would 
reach out and bring people together in 
order to form a consensus that could 
help the Nation govern itself. We find 
we have exactly the opposite happening 
in the Senate. 
At the same time, what we find happening—
under the Constitution, the 
separation of powers are a check and a 
balance against each other. That is beginning 
to erode. Instead, what we see 
is the power, instead of being equally 
divided and balanced between the judicial, 
the legislative, and the executive 
branches, we find in the executive 
branch almost an attitude that the legislative 
branch should become an appendage 
of what the executive branch 
wants. If that trend continues, the Constitution 
is not going to work as it was 
intended to work. 
We find in the histories of this great 
body, when we have read about those 

great leaders, even within our lifetime—
Everett Dirksen, Lyndon Johnson, 
Mike Mansfield, and Bob Dole— 
they reached out and built bipartisan 
consensus. They were partisan when 
they needed to be, and yet they knew 
the way this body operates. One cannot 
break a filibuster except by 60 votes 
now; it used to be two- thirds. We have 
to build consensus, and we have to 
build it from the political center by 
reaching out and bringing people together. 


The sharpness of this poisoned atmosphere 
of excessive partisanship and 
excessive ideological rigidity has made 
it very difficult for this Government to 
function. As a matter of fact, we read 
the articles recently in major periodicals 
where it seems ideology is lining 
up in one party or another, almost as if 
that is the decision point, the choice, 
for America to make. 

But America has always yearned for 
another way and that was using the 
best of our democratic principles 
through the cross currents of ideas, 
through the intercourse of discussion, 
through the heat of debate, for ideas 
and consensus to emerge upon which to 
govern this wonderful, broad, beautiful, 
powerful, and very diverse country. 
Until we do that, we are going to continue 
to have a problem of gridlock. 

There is something I can do about it 
by the way I conduct myself individually, 
day in and day out—when I 
make mistakes, own up to those mistakes 
and apologize to the people who 
would be offended by those mistakes in 
the interest of comity and consensus 
building. That is how this Senator has 
tried to conduct himself, failed as I 
may be. 

That is how I will try to continue to 
conduct myself and hope I am joined by 
other Senators in that—through the 
way you conduct yourself, reaching out 
in the spirit of comity and personal 
friendship, and with a sight set on what 
is good for the Nation. Partisanship 
prevents us from building consensus in 
order to run this wonderful country we 
are privileged to serve and represent. 

Mr. President, that is what has been 
on my heart. 

f 

THE GAO MISSILE DEFENSE 
REPORT 

Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, 
I came to the floor to discuss a 
topic we will be taking up in the Senate 
Armed Services Committee later 
this week as we start to grapple with 
the authorization bill for the Defense 
Department—the question of missile 
defense. 

This topic is timely for a number of 
reasons. First of all, the administration 
plans to deploy a ‘‘rudimentary’’ 
missile defense system this September, 
despite the fact it has not been proven 
to work. The Armed Services Committee 
begins consideration of this 
DOD fiscal year 2005 budget request, 
and the Pentagon has requested $10 billion 
for missile defense systems in 2005, 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4735 

so it is timely to talk about it right 
now. 

Also, it is timely to talk about this 
issue because the General Accounting 
Office has released a report exhaustively 
reviewing major missile defense 
programs—with interesting and useful 
findings, if we will listen to those findings. 


Let’s look at that GAO report. The 
report made some very telling observations. 
Among them was that the missile 
defense to be deployed in September 
simply will not be proven yet, 
because it hasn’t been tested against 
realistic targets. The GAO recommends 
that realistic operational tests should 
be conducted on the missile defense 
system, which many of us have been 
saying. How in the world can you deploy 
something that has not been developed 
and tested? 

The GAO recommends we establish 
clear and firm missile defense goals. I 
don’t see how we can operate and manage 
a complex, expensive program like 
this without goals. The report also 
took a hard, unbiased look at what 
progress was being made on these missile 
defense programs. The GAO spent 
close to a year doing research going beyond 
the rhetoric to understand what 
was going on scientifically and fiscally 
among these complex programs. 

What did the GAO find? Well, they 
found some major problems, problems 
that should concern all of us who support 
a true working missile defense for 
our homeland. I want to repeat that— 
problems that concern those of us who 
truly support a working missile defense 
program for our homeland. 

The GAO found, for example, the 
prime contractors for 2 of the missile 
defense programs had cost overruns totaling 
almost $400 million during fiscal 
year 2003 alone. 

The GAO found the first increment of 
missile defense to be deployed in September 
is going to cost a billion dollars 
more than the Pentagon thought it 
would cost a year ago. That is a billion 
dollars of cost growth in a single year. 
I want this program to be successful, 
and I also want it to be fiscally responsible. 


The GAO also found the airborne 
laser program is more than a year behind 
schedule and projected to go over 
budget between a half billion dollars 
and a billion dollars. Let’s look at that 
airborne laser program for a moment. 
It is a fascinating technology, using a 
laser cannon mounted on a 747 aircraft 
to shoot down missiles while they are 
rising in the boost phase of an ICBM 
flight. 

In March 2003, only a year ago, during 
the Senate Armed Services Committee 
hearing on missile defense, I 
asked the Lieutenant General Kadish, 
the Director of the Missile Defense 
Agency, about the airborne laser. He 
told me it was going to be working 
within a year. Well, we know now—not 
from him, but from the GAO report— 
that at the time of the hearing last 
year, the airborne laser program was 

already significantly behind schedule 
and had more than $100 million in cost 
overruns a year ago when I asked the 
question in the Armed Services Committee. 
But they didn’t tell us that. 

According to the GAO, just about everything 
that can go wrong with this 
program has gone wrong. General 
Kadish did not tell us that a year ago. 
The report says: 

Numerous and continuing issues have 
caused the [program] to slip, including 
supply, quality, and technical problems. 


I continue the quote: 

For example, specialized valves have been 
recalled twice, laser fluid management software 
has been delayed due to inadequate definition 
of requirements, and improperly 
cleaned plumbing and material issues have 
required over 3,000 hours of unplanned work. 
In addition, delays in hardware delivery occurred 
in almost every month of fiscal year 
2003. 

Why didn’t they tell us that last 
year? It is, again, symptomatic of the 
executive branch not deferring to the 
proper balance of powers as envisioned 
by the Constitution. Instead, they are 
asking the legislative branch to do its 
bidding. This has to stop for the sake 
of the balance of powers of this country. 


Even as these problems were occurring 
with the airborne laser, more 
money was pouring into the program. 
The Missile Defense Agency spent 
about a billion dollars on the airborne 
laser in 2002 and 2003, and the administration 
has asked for another half billion 
dollars in fiscal year 2005 for this 
same program. 

The Pentagon has not been forthcoming 
with this sort of information. If 
it weren’t for this GAO report, it is not 
likely the Congress would understand 
how serious the problems are with this 
airborne laser program. I wish it were 
not so, because wouldn’t it be good for 
America if we suddenly had an airborne 
laser that could shoot down an ascending 
rocket heading for an American 
target? 

The airborne laser program is not the 
only surprise in the GAO report. The 
report reveals computer programs 
needed for Navy ships to work with the 
administration’s missile defense system 
won’t be tested adequately prior to 
the planned September deployment of 
the system. Since these ships are needed 
to protect Hawaii from a missile 
launch, Hawaii is now unprotected. 
That same report reveals major delays 
with the administration’s missile defense 
plans. It says: 

Flight tests leading up to the [deployment] 
have slipped [over] 10 months, largely as a 
consequence of delays in [missile defense] interceptor 
development and delivery. Accordingly, 
the test schedule leading up to the 
September [deployment] has been severely 
compressed, limiting [the] opportunity to 
characterize [the system’s] performance 
prior to the initial fielding. 

The report goes on: 

The production and delivery of all 20 interceptors 
by the end of [December 2005] is uncertain—
contractors have not demonstrated 

that they can meet the increased production 
rate. 

Given the reality of the technical 
problems, the schedule delays, and the 
lack of operational testing, can we justify 
to the American people spending 
hundreds of millions of dollars in 2005 
to continue to buy more missile defense 
interceptors than we already 
have? 

I want them to be successful. Let’s 
make sure what we have is going to, in 
fact, work because the GAO report reveals 
many of the administration’s 
missile defense programs are in serious 
trouble with major cost overruns, 
schedule delays, and inadequate testing. 
Even to the most enthusiastic supporters 
of missile defense among us, it 
should be clear that technology is not 
proving itself as fast as we had hoped. 
Given the fact a missile attack against 
the U.S. is probably lower on the list in 
terms of probability than other attacks, 
and given what is going on right 
now in the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
I think it is clear we need to look 
carefully and objectively at this missile 
defense budget and see if we should 
not spend some of this money on making 
sure we get it right through the development 
and testing, and some of 
that money for our soldiers and marines 
in battle right now so they can 
fight and win. 

I thank the Chair. I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Tennessee. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, 
how much time is remaining for morning 
business on our side? 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
There are 15 minutes remaining 
on the Republican side. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. I ask unanimous 
consent to speak for up to 15 minutes 
in morning business, and I request that 
the Chair let me know when there are 
2 minutes remaining. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator is recognized. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. I thank the Chair. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO MARVIN RUNYON 
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I 
have three topics I wish to speak about 
today. The first is about Marvin Runyon. 
Marvin Runyon is a man known to 
almost all Tennesseans. He died last 
night. He had a remarkable career. 
Marvin Runyon and his Nissan team 
brought the automobile industry to 
Tennessee, creating jobs and better 
lives for tens of thousands of families. 
They built from scratch the largest and 
most efficient car and truck plant in 
North America. 
For an encore, Marvin Runyon became 
chairman of the Tennessee Valley 
Authority and stabilized TVA 
rates. And for a double encore, he became 
the Postmaster General of the 
United States, and in the year he left, 
if I am not mistaken, the Post Office 
made a profit. It is rare that our country 
has produced a better chief executive 
officer. I am certain Tennessee has 


S4736 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

never produced a better one. He has 
three wonderful stories all after 50 
years of age. 

Prior to that, Mr. Runyon was a senior 
executive at Ford Motor Company. 
It was in 1980, in my second year as 
Governor, when Nissan hired that team 
of Ford executives. They came to Tennessee, 
a State that was not building 
any cars or trucks, only had a few 
thousand, I would say, automobile supplier 
jobs. 

Today, Tennessee is the third or 
fourth largest producer of cars and 
trucks. One-third of our manufacturing 
jobs are automotive. There are several 
reasons for that development, but it 
would not have happened if Marvin 
Runyon and his Nissan team had not 
chosen to come to Tennessee in 1980. 

My wife and I and our family have 
lost a dear friend, Tennesseans have 
lost a friend, and I wanted to pay tribute 
to a man who literally changed the 
lives of tens of thousands of families 
for the better by his work in bringing 
the automobile industry to Tennessee 
and stabilizing the Tennessee Valley 
Authority. 

f 

FAMOUS MUSIC CORP/ 
HORNBUCKLE MUSIC 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I 
wish to talk about songwriters. Italy 
has its art, and California and Oregon 
have fine wine, Hollywood has movies, 
Dalton, GA, has carpets, and Nashville 
has songwriters. 

There are a great many beautiful 
songs that come from Nashville— 
poems—but I want to especially commend 
to my colleagues a new song 
called ‘‘Letters from Home.’’ You may 
hear John Michael Montgomery sing it. 
It is a poem that touches the heart of 
Americans at this time. It is especially 
meaningful with the men and women of 
our military in Afghanistan and Iraq 
and all over the world fighting for freedom. 


This is a story about their loved ones 
awaiting their coming home. The last 
stanza goes like this: 

I hold it up and show my buddies 
Like we ain’t scared an’ our boots ain’t 

muddy 
But no one laughs ’cause there’s 
Ain’t nothin’ funny when a’ 
Soldier cries. 
So I just wipe my eyes 
Fold it up and put it in my shirt 
Pick up my gun and get back to work 
And it keeps drivin’ on, waitin’ on letters 

from home. 
That song was written by Tony Lane 
and David Lee. I saw them a couple 
weeks ago at Belmont University in 
Nashville. Belmont celebrated the introduction 
of a course on ‘‘Poetics in 
Country Music,’’ to explore literary 
criticism of song lyrics as we do for 
other poetry. I salute Belmont University 
for its leadership. 
When Johnny Cash died, the New 
York Times streamed a headline: ‘‘Poet 
of the Working Poor.’’ Bob Dylan once 
said Hank Williams was America’s 
greatest poet. I said on the Senate 

floor, if that is true, why don’t we have 
English professors somewhere criticizing 
their poetry? They are all up in 
Northeastern schools writing good criticism 
of mediocre poems while we have 
poets of the working poor and some of 
the best poets in Nashville writing 
poems. 

‘‘Letters from Home’’ is yet another 
great poem from Nashville songwriters 
and one more example of why Belmont 
University’s pioneering work to discuss 
‘‘Poetics of the Working Poor’’ is a 
good idea. 

There might be more in common between 
Shakespeare’s sonnets and Hank 
Williams stanzas than one at first 
might imagine. 

f 

CALCULATION OF THE 
EMPLOYMENT RATE 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I 
wish to discuss with my colleagues 
something of a mystery. I have yet to 
be able to find an answer to this mystery. 
I am hoping by addressing it on 
the Senate floor and by letters I am 
sending today to Alan Greenspan, 
Chairman of the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, and the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, their research 
might help me figure this out. 

I asked Chairman Greenspan at our 
hearing on April 21 of the Joint Economic 
Committee about the 6 million 
people, more or less, who are living and 
working in the United States who our 
Government is not counting when it 
makes our monthly projections about 
who is working and who is unemployed. 

Here is what I base that question on: 
There is a consensus there are 8 to 10 
million undocumented aliens or illegal 
immigrants in the United States today. 
For example, the Urban Institute estimate 
says 8 million, and the Center for 
Immigration Studies says 10 million. 
The Urban Institute estimates perhaps 
6 million or more of those undocumented 
persons have a job in the 
United States. I do not think there is 
much debate about the fact there are 6 
million people living in the United 
States, more or less, who are illegally 
here who are also working. 

My guess is our Government is not 
counting most of these 6 million undocumented 
aliens when we announce 
each month the number of Americans 
who have jobs. It was 138 million for 
March and the number who are unemployed, 
5.7 percent of the workforce, or 

8.4 million people in March. 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
which makes these announcements 
each month, gathers their estimates in 
two different ways. The first is the so-
called payroll survey of 400,000 business 
establishments. Since it is a violation 
of Federal criminal laws for a company 
to employ an undocumented alien, I 
think it is wrong to assume most or 
even many of the 6 million illegal immigrants 
who are working here are reported 
by the payroll survey. Nor do I 
believe these 6 million illegal immigrants 
are likely to be included in the 

other principal data-gathering mechanism 
of the survey, which we call the 
household survey. 

This is a survey of more than 60,000 
persons living in the United States 
which basically asked in many different 
ways, do you have a job? Now, 
this must include a lot of people the 
payroll service does not, people such as 
farmers, people working at home, independent 
contractors, and I suspect a 
lot of people who are here illegally. 

I also believe that it paints a much 
clearer picture of employment in the 
United States than the payroll survey. 
Common sense suggests to me that the 
household survey also does not include 
many undocumented aliens. If one is an 
illegal immigrant and they receive a 
phone call from the Government asking 
questions, they are not likely to 
give many answers, I would not think, 
especially if the phone call is not in 
their native language. 

So I see no basis to assume these 6 
million workers—my guess is in most 
cases hard workers but undocumented 
aliens—are being counted or that they 
are being equally uncounted by the two 
surveys, which is what Mr. Greenspan 
suggested might be the case. Our failure 
to find some way to consider the 
implications of having what I would 
judge to be so many undocumented 
aliens working has a great many policy 
implications. 

Now I am not trying in these remarks 
to solve the great issues of immigration, 
whether we should have it, 
how much we should have, what we 
should do. That is another debate. I am 
just trying to understand who is here. 
If 6 million are here and working, are 
we counting them? It would be helpful 
to know the answer to that question, 
to know whether we are understating 
the number of people living in America 
who are employed and stating the rate 
of people in America who are unemployed. 


This is one of the principal debates in 
our presidential campaign: It is the 
economy, stupid. It is jobs. Well, how 
do these 6 million uncounted workers 
affect the information we put out each 
month upon which we make all of these 
debates? Also, if we have 8.4 million 
unemployed, according to our official 
statistics, and if 6 million illegal immigrants 
are working, are these 6 million 
taking jobs that the 8.4 million want? 
Also, if these 6 million were not here, 
would we suddenly have virtually full 
employment? 

Another point might be, if these 6 
million were not here and the 8.4 million 
still remained unemployed, or 
many of them did, that certainly would 
tell us something about whether we 
need more or less unemployment insurance, 
more or fewer training programs, 
or more or fewer lessons in English. Or 
if the 6 million illegal workers are actually 
employed, that would tell us 
something about the effectiveness of 
our immigration laws and would help 
us make more accurate estimates of 
the contributions these workers might 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4737 

make to the Social Security and Medicare 
systems. 

So if we are going to rely on these 
monthly estimates from the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics, my point is, if one is 
going to say to us we have 138 million 
people at work in the United States, 
what about the 6 million who are here 
who probably are not counted, who are 
illegally here? They are real people. 
They are working in real jobs. What 
about them? Or if we are talking about 
the 8.4 million people who are unemployed 
in the United States, what is 
the effect of having 6 million illegal 
people on that rate of unemployment? 
It is information I think we ought to 
know. 

At the end of his answer to my question, 
Mr. Greenspan said that having 
better information about the number 
of undocumented aliens living and 
working in the United States is a subject 
that has ‘‘bedeviled statisticians.’’ 

I believe it is also a problem we 
ought to try harder to figure out the 
answer to. In fact, I believe it is inexcusable 
that we would base so much of 
our public debate about unemployment 
on surveys that likely exclude several 
million employed workers in the 
United States, many of them doing 
jobs that most Americans consider to 
be valuable jobs. 

This failure to report accurate information 
may be leading us into a number 
of erroneous, ineffective, and expensive 
policy decisions. I have asked 
Mr. Greenspan and his excellent staff 
and I have asked the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics if they could examine this 
question in-depth and give me and perhaps 
other Members of the Joint Economic 
Committee, if Chairman Bennett 
finds the subject interesting, an 
opportunity to talk with them about 
their conclusion. 

It seems odd that we would continue 
to base so much of our national debate 
upon information that may be flawed, 
and if it is not flawed, then we need 
someone with reasonable authority to 
say that each month we are counting 
the 5, 6 or 7 million people who have 
jobs in the United States and who are 
illegally here so that this cannot be an 
issue. If they cannot say that, then we 
need to work harder to find out the answer. 


I ask unanimous consent that a copy 
of my letter to Chairman Alan Greenspan 
be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
Record, as follows: 

U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, May 3, 2004. 

Hon. ALAN GREENSPAN, 

Chairman, Board of Governors, Federal Reserve 
System, Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN, I am writing to follow 
up on your answer to my question about illegal 
immigration and calculation of the employment 
rate during your testimony before 
the Joint Economic Committee on April 21. 

My concern is that there may be up to 6 
million people living and working in the 
United States who our government is not 
counting when it makes our regular projec


tions about who is working and who is unemployed. 


There is a consensus that there are 8 to 10 
million undocumented aliens or illegal immigrants 
in the United States today. For example, 
estimates from the Urban Institute 
and the Center for Immigration Studies, 
based on data from the Current Population 
Survey, are 8 million and 10 million respectively. 
The Urban Institute estimates that 6 
million or more undocumented persons have 
a job in the United States. 

You indicated in your comments to my 
question that you believe our government’s 
job-counting surveys take these illegal 
workers into account, or at least, they do a 
fairly equal job of NOT taking them into account. 


My guess is that the government is not 
counting most of these 6 million illegal 
workers when we announce each month the 
number of Americans who have jobs 
(138,298,000 for March, seasonally adjusted) 
and the number who are unemployed (5.7 percent 
of the workforce or 8.4 million people in 
March, seasonally adjusted). 

The Bureau of Labor Statistics gathers 
data for these estimates in two main ways. 
The principal way is through the Current 
Employment Statistics Program, or so-
called payroll survey of payroll records from 
400,000 business establishments. Since it is a 
violation of Federal criminal laws for a company 
to employ an undocumented alien, I 
think it is wrong to assume that most or 
even many of the 6 million illegal immigrants 
who are working for established businesses 
are reported by the payroll survey. 
These illegal immigrants may be self-employed, 
agricultural workers, contractors, or 
in some other kind of work that is not in any 
event covered by the payroll survey. 

Nor do I believe that most of the 6 million 
illegal immigrants are likely to be included 
in the other principal data-gathering mechanism 
of the bureau, the Current Population 
Survey, commonly known as the household 
survey. This is a telephone survey of more 
than 60,000 persons living in the United 
States that basically asks in many different 
ways, ‘‘Do you have a job?’’ The household 
survey must include a great many persons 
that the payroll survey does not—such as 
farmers, people working at home, and independent 
contractors—which is one reason 
why it paints a larger picture of employment 
in the United States than the payroll survey. 
But common sense suggests to me that the 
household survey does not include many illegal 
immigrants. If you are an illegal immigrant 
and you receive a phone call from the 
government asking questions, you are not 
likely to give many answers—especially if 
the phone call is not in your native language. 


So I see no basis to assume that these 6 
million undocumented aliens are being 
counted—or that they are being equally uncounted—
by the two surveys. 

Our failure to find some way to consider 
the implications of having so many undocumented 
aliens working has a great many policy 
implications: 

Knowing the answer would help us know if 
we are understating the number of people 
living in America who are employed and 
overstating the rate of unemployment. 

If we have 8.4 million unemployed and 6 
million illegal immigrants working, are 
those 6 million taking jobs that the other 8.4 
million want? 

If the 6 million all went home, would we 
have virtually full employment? 

If the 6 million all went home and the 8.4 
million still remained unemployed, that certainly 
would tell us something about whether 
we needed more or less unemployment insurance, 
or more or fewer training programs, 
or more or fewer lessons in English. 

If the 6 million illegal workers are actually 
employed, that would tell us something 
about the effectiveness of our immigration 
laws—and it would help us make more accurate 
estimates of contributions these workers 
might make to the Social Security and 
Medicare systems. 

You said at the end of your answer to my 
question that having better information 
about the number of undocumented aliens 
living and working in the United States is a 
subject that has ‘‘bedeviled’’ statisticians. If 
is also a problem we ought to try harder to 
figure out. 

In fact, I believe it is inexcusable that we 
would base so much of our public debate 
about employment on surveys that likely exclude 
several million employed workers in 
the United States. It may be leading us into 
a number of erroneous and expensive policy 
decisions. 

I would be very grateful if you could examine 
this question in depth and give me an opportunity 
to talk with you about your conclusions. 
I am also making the same request 
of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 

Thank you very much. 

Very best wishes, 

LAMAR ALEXANDER, 

U.S. Senator. 
Mr. ALEXANDER. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

CONCLUSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Morning business is closed. 

f 

JUMPSTART OUR BUSINESS 
STRENGTH (JOBS) ACT 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
Senate will resume consideration of S. 
1637, which the clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

A bill (S. 1637) to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to comply with World 
Trade Organization rulings on the FSC/ETI 
benefit in a manner that preserves jobs and 
production activities in the United States, to 
reform and simplify the international taxation 
rules of the United States, and for 
other purposes. 

Pending: 

Harkin amendment No. 2881, to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to clarify 
provisions relating to overtime pay. 

Frist Motion to Recommit the bill to the 
Committee on Finance, with instructions to 
report back forthwith with the following 
amendment: 

Frist amendment No. 3011 (to the instructions 
of the Motion to Recommit the bill to 
the Committee on Finance), in the nature of 
a substitute. 

Frist amendment No. 3012 (to the instructions 
(amendment No. 3011) of the Motion to 
Recommit the bill to the Committee on Finance), 
relative to the effective date following 
enactment of the Act. 


S4738 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

Frist amendment No. 3013 (to amendment 
No. 3012), relative to the effective date following 
enactment of the Act. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Iowa. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I am 
glad we are back on the jobs and manufacturing 
act. This will be the third 
time we have attempted to move this 
bill. President Reagan had a very famous 
quip: Here we go again. 

Here we go again, hopefully to conclusion 
of this very important piece of 
legislation. 

I hope things are going to be different. 
This time the European Union 
sanctions are very firmly in place. 
There should not be any doubt in the 
mind of any Member where Europe is 
headed. In the process of the European 
tax on our exports to that continent, 
they are freezing out of their markets 

U.S. companies. 
This time there is an agreement on 
the political message amendments that 
will be addressed on this bill even 
though those amendments have nothing 
to do with the measures contained 
in the bill. This time we will finally reveal 
with absolute clarity whether 
some on the other side of the aisle are 
ready to drop the political posturing 
and pass this bipartisan bill to remove 
European Union sanctions against our 
farmers and manufacturing workers. 

In Sunday’s Washington Post was an 
article saying that Senate partisanship 
was the worst in memory. It spoke 
about the long list of legislation 
stalled in the Senate, stalled in the 
Senate because of political posturing. 
The article mentioned the bill that is 
before us today, this jobs and manufacturing 
bill. The paper said: 

Foreign tariffs have been imposed on many 
American products while the Senate dawdled 
over [today’s bill]—to substitute corporate 
tax cuts for subsidies that have been outlawed 
by the World Trade Organization. 

Dawdled? That is no compliment, obviously. 
It is, unfortunately, an accurate 
description of what opponents to 
passing the JOBS bill have achieved 
during the last 2 or 3 months. It is an 
accusation that all of us will hear back 
home if we continue to allow the European 
Union to sanction our agriculture, 
timber, and manufacturing exports. 


I will have more to say about sanctions 
later, but I want to remind people 
who might say, Why do you have to 
worry about the European Union? They 
don’t have any business doing that; we 
ought to be able to export our products 
to Europe; that America has also imposed 
some retribution against European 
products coming to this country 
because Europe decided not to abide by 
the agreement on beef hormones. They 
don’t let our meat in. We won the case 
before the WTO, so we put duties on 
their products coming here. 

We lose a case before the World Trade 
Organization—and, by the way, we win 
more than we lose by a long sight. But 
regardless, Europe is doing what they 
can legally do under our international 

trade agreements. We all understand 
these international trade agreements 
have moved us in the right direction, 
the direction of lowering barriers to 
our products in other countries so we 
can export because we are an exporting 
nation and because exports create jobs 
and because those jobs pay 15 percent 
above the national average of jobs. It 
creates jobs and it creates good jobs. 

You don’t have to dispute the 50-year 
history of the advantage of international 
trade agreements to the 
United States when other countries 
have higher barriers to trade than we 
do, and we bring those barriers down. 
We have a process for settling our differences. 
That is called the World 
Trade Organization dispute settlement 
process. This bill is before the U.S. 
Senate because we are changing our 
laws to be within our international 
trade agreements, agreements this 
Senate has already adopted. We have 
already voted on these international 
trade agreements, so now we have to 
live up to them in the same way we expect 
Europe to live up to those agreements 
when we win a dispute with Europe. 
That is why we are here. Only 
this legislation is going to go a lot further 
than just to make our laws comply 
with European laws; we are also 
going to do other things to our tax 
laws to encourage manufacturing in 
America, to create more jobs in America. 


This legislation has been held up, as 
the Washington Post said, while the 
Senate dawdled. That was over partisan 
politics. There is no excuse for allowing 
partisan politics to hold this 
bill up because this bill was reported 
out of the Senate Finance Committee 
with only two dissenting votes, and 
those two dissenting votes were not 
Democrat votes, those were Republican 
votes. The two Republicans who voted 
against it have a different philosophy 
on what we should do with this bill, 
and they are going to be offering an 
amendment. But I don’t think they are 
trying to kill this bill, even if they disagree 
with it. They are not standing in 
the way of passing the JOBS bill just 
because they don’t like exactly what it 
says. 

That is the difference here. Senators 
do, in fact, have a right to their own 
opinions on this bill and are free to file 
amendments to change it. That is exactly 
what they ought to be doing if 
they are representing the people of 
their State. But that is a far cry from 
trying to delay this measure just to 
score points on completely unrelated 
political issues that come before us in 
the form of nongermane amendments. 

This is a bipartisan bill that reflects 
everyone’s concerns, both Republicans 
and Democrats. This is a bill that is 
going to pass 90 to 10 when we get to finality. 
But you don’t play political 
games with a bipartisan bill that affects 
jobs of manufacturing workers all 
across this vast land. 

I think it is worth looking at the history 
of this bill. The jobs in manufac


turing act is a bipartisan bill from the 
ground up. The framework was laid by 
my colleague and friend, Senator BAUCUS, 
when he was chairman of the Senate 
Finance Committee in the last Congress. 
It began with a hearing in July 
2002 to address the controversy within 
the World Trade Organization and our 
tax laws. We heard from a cross section 
of industry that would be damaged by 
the repeal of the Extraterritorial Income 
Act. We also heard from U.S. 
companies that were clamoring for 
international tax reform because our 
tax rules were hurting competitiveness 
in foreign trade. Their foreign competitors 
were running circles around them 
because of our arcane and probably 
outmoded international tax rules. 

During this hearing we had, for instance, 
Senator BOB GRAHAM of Florida 
and Senator HATCH of Utah express 
concerns about how our own international 
tax laws were impairing the 
competitiveness of the U.S. companies. 
That is almost 2 years ago. 

After some discussion on forming a 
blue ribbon commission to study this 
issue, we all decided that decisive action 
was more important than a commission. 
During that hearing, Chairman 
BAUCUS formed an international 
tax working group that was joined by 
Senators GRAHAM, HATCH, and me, and 
was opened to any other Finance Committee 
Senator who was interested in 
participating. The bipartisan Finance 
Committee working group developed a 
framework that forms a basis for the 
bill that has been before this Senate 
now, off and on, over the last 3 months. 
We directed our staff 2 years ago to engage 
in an exhaustive analysis of many 
international reform proposals that 
have been offered. We sought to glean 
the very best ideas from as many 
sources as possible. 

Chairman BAUCUS and I formed a bipartisan 
bicameral working group with 
the chairman and ranking member of 
the Ways and Means Committee in an 
effort to find some common ground in 
dealing with the repeal of the Foreign 
Sales Corporation Extraterritorial Income 
Act that was ruled contrary to 
our international trade agreements. 
While that effort with Ways and Means 
did not go so well, it did inspire Chairman 
BAUCUS and me to continue our 
Senate bipartisan development of the 
repeal of this legislation and also to 
bring about international tax reform. 

We continued our efforts in cooperation 
with Senator HATCH, Senator BOB 
GRAHAM, and others on the Finance 
Committee who wanted to do what was 
fair and what was right in complying 
with the World Trade Organization ruling. 


We continued our bipartisan efforts 
when I became chairman again after 
the 2002 election. 

In July 2003, we held two hearings on 
the FSC/ETI and international reform 
issue. One hearing focused on the effects 
of our tax policy on business competition 
within the United States, and 
the other hearing focused on international 
business competition. These 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4739 

two hearings led to this bipartisan bill 
that has been before the Senate for the 
last 3 months. 

Let me again emphasize that there is 
not one provision in this JOBS bill 
that was not agreed to by both Republicans 
and Democrats—not one. We 
have acted in good faith to produce a 
bill that protects American manufacturing 
jobs and also ensures our companies 
remain the global competitors 
we ought to want to be, are, and we 
ought to continue to be. We did this in 
a fully bipartisan manner, which is 
what the American people expect us to 
do on such an important issue as manufacturing 
jobs and our Nation’s economic 
health. 

The core part of this bill repeals the 
current FSC/ETI provisions that are 
now in our tax law. FSC/ETI reduces 
the income tax on goods manufactured 
in the United States and exported overseas 
by as much as 3 to 8 rate points. 
That is, if the corporation tax rate is 35 
percent, the tax rate on export income 
is going to be somewhere between 27 to 
32 instead of the 35 percent it is right 
now. It lowered the U.S. corporate rate 
on goods made in the United States 
and sold overseas. 

The World Trade Organization has 
determined that FSC/ETI is an impermissible 
export subsidy and has authorized 
the European Union to impose 
a $4 billion a year tax against U.S. exports 
until we get rid of the FSC/ETI 
legislation that has been on the books 
for about 3 decades. 

We have sanctions put on us by Europe. 
They began on March 1 with 5 
percent right off the bat, increasing 1 
percent a month. You have March, 1 
percent; April, 1 more percent; and 
May, 1 more percent. This is a 7-percent 
Euro tax on American exports. It 
is a very serious threat for all members 
because sanctions are hitting commodity 
products, agricultural goods, 
timber, and paper. 

Presently, about 89 percent of Foreign 
Sales Corporation export benefits 
go to the manufacturing sector. Repealing 
this legislation raises around 
$55 billion over 10 years. If that money 
is not sent back to the manufacturing 
sector, that means an additional $55 
billion cost to manufacturing. It is 
mathematically impossible for it to be 
anything else. 

That is why our bipartisan jobs in 
manufacturing bill takes all $55 billion 
of the FSC/ETI repeal money and sends 
it back to the manufacturing sector in 
the form of a 3-point tax rate cut on 
manufacturing income. This rate cut is 
for manufacturing in the United 
States, it is not for manufacturing offshore. 
We start phasing in those cuts 
this year if the Senate passes this jobs 
in manufacturing bill this year. The 
cuts apply to sole proprietors, partnerships, 
farmers, individuals, family 
businesses, multinational corporations, 
and foreign companies that set up manufacturing 
plants in this country. In 
total, this bill provides $75 billion of 
tax relief to our U.S.-based manufac


turing sector to promote factory hiring 
here in the United States. 

We also include in this legislation 
international tax reforms, mostly in 
the foreign tax credit area and most of 
which benefit the manufacturing sector. 
The international tax reforms 
largely fix problems which our domestic 
companies face because of the complexity 
of the foreign tax credit. These 
reforms are necessary if we are to level 
the playing field for U.S. companies 
that compete with our trading partners. 


You will hear arguments this week 
that the international tax reforms provide 
an incentive to move jobs offshore. 
I am going to show you later 
how adamantly I disagree with that argument. 
We have carefully selected on 
a bipartisan basis the international reforms 
that do not provide offshore incentives. 


Our bill also includes a Homeland Reinvestment 
Act which will temporarily 
reduce tax on foreign earnings that are 
brought into the United States for investment 
here at home instead of leaving 
that money overseas to create jobs 
overseas. This provision is sponsored 
by Senator ENSIGN, Senator BOXER, and 
the Presiding Officer, Senator SMITH 
from Oregon. It has broad support in 
the House and Senate. 

The JOBS bill will extend the R&D 
tax credit through the end of 2005. This 
is a domestic tax benefit that generates 
research and development here 
in the United States. That translates 
into good, high-paying jobs for workers 
here in America and not jobs overseas. 

The legislation before us extends for 
2 years many tax provisions that expired 
in December of last year or, if 
they didn’t expire then, will expire during 
this calendar year. These items include 
the work opportunity tax credit 
and the welfare-to-work tax credit. The 
JOBS bill will make the merger of 
those credits permanent. 

We include a provision that allows 
Naval shipbuilders to use a method of 
accounting which results in more favorable 
income tax treatment. 

There are enhanced depreciation provisions 
to help the airline industry. 

There are new homestead provisions. 
These are rural development provisions 
to create businesses in counties that 
are losing population. For example, 
they would provide incentives for 
starting or expanding a rural business 
in a rural high-outmigration county, 
something that would benefit States 
such as mine in the Midwest where 
rural counties are losing population— 
not even maintaining but losing. 

The jobs in manufacturing underlying 
bill also includes the new markets 
tax credit for high-outmigration 
counties. These credits help economic 
development in rural counties that lost 
over 10 percent of their population. 

The bill includes brownfields revitalization 
provisions which help tax-exempt 
investors that invest in cleanup 
and remediation of qualified brownfield 
sites. 

The bill includes a mortgage revenue 
bonds measure which repeals the current 
rule that doesn’t allow mortgage 
revenue bond payments to be used for 
issuing new mortgages. There are 70 
Senate cosponsors of this mortgage 
revenue bond bill. It is included because 
it has broad support in the U.S. 
Senate. 

We allow deductions for private 
mortgage insurance. 

The JOBS bill includes a tax credit 
to employers for wages paid to reservists 
if they are called to active duty. 

We have extended and enhanced the 
Liberty Zone Bonds used in the rebuilding 
of Lower Manhattan. We also 
include $200 million in tax credits to be 
used for rail infrastructure projects in 
the New York Liberty Zone. 

The bill contains renewal communities 
provisions. We increase small 
business industrial development bond 
levels to spur economic development in 
rural areas. We have bonds for rebuilding 
school infrastructure. We have included 
tribal bonds in the JOBS bill 
which allow the same rules that apply 
to tax-exempt bonds for State and local 
Governments to also apply to our constitutional 
relationship with Native 
American tribes so they are treated 
like States and other political subdivisions. 


We have tribal school bonds. Under 
current law there is no class of bonds 
designated for the purpose of encouraging 
school construction on Indian 
reservations as we have for our States 
and local communities. 

There is a new tribal markets tax 
credit which would add $50 million a 
year for economic development on reservation 
lands. 

We have included the Civil Rights 
Tax Fairness Act. 

The JOBS bill contains a change in 
section 815. The provision suspends application 
of the rules imposing income 
tax on certain distribution to shareholders 
from the policyholders’ surplus 
account of a life insurance company. 

We have a special dividend allocation 
rule that benefits farm co-ops. Other 
farm provisions give cattlemen tax-free 
treatment if they replace livestock because 
of drought, flood, or other weather-
related conditions over which that 
farmer has no control. 

We include a provision that allows 
payments under the National Health 
Service Corporation Loan Repayment 
Program to be exempt from tax to help 
get health care providers into rural 
America. 

We included the passenger rail infrastructure 
tax credits that provide $500 
million for inner-city passenger rail 
capital projects. We also included so-
called short-line railroads. 

We have many other improvements 
in this bill. One I bring up deals with 
the stalled Energy bill before the Senate. 
We have included in this bill, because 
gasoline is so high, because this 
country needs a national energy policy 
and because the Finance Committee 
Senator BAUCUS and I lead has so much 


S4740 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

to do with tax credits for incentives for 
the production of fossil fuel, conservation 
and for alternative sources of en-
ergy—those all need to be done now 
that we have gas over $2 a gallon. We 
need a national energy policy. 

We are taking advantage of this legislation 
being in the Senate, working 
with Senator DOMENICI to include provisions 
in the Energy bill that have 
previously been approved by the Finance 
Committee, but which did not go 
to the President because of the filibuster 
in this body against that overall 
Energy bill. It is essentially the exact 
bill originally cosponsored at the beginning 
of this Congress by this Senator 
and Senators BAUCUS, DOMENICI, 
and BINGAMAN. It is the first time the 
chairman and ranking member of both 
committees of jurisdiction, Finance 
and Energy, have crafted a bipartisan 
bill that would serve as a national energy 
policy that represents the business 
of the American people and the 
sort of cooperation by which things get 
done around here. Too bad it is not 
done more often. 

The energy provisions are balanced 
in all segments of our energy needs, 
and we have expanded all provisions for 
renewable electricity to include wind 
and biomass, to promote conservation 
of energy and alternative cars and 
fuels. It does not abandon our tried-
and-true energy performers like traditional 
oil and gas production and the 
newer, cleaner coal provisions for electricity. 


The best aspect of the entire package 
is the energy part of this jobs and manufacturing 
bill creates jobs all by 
itself. 

The volumetric ethanol excise tax 
credit provisions, known as the 
VEETC, in this package would add up 
to $14.2 billion in revenue to the highway 
trust fund over the 6-year life of 
the transportation bill pending before 
the Congress. This provision alone creates 
as many as 674,000 new jobs across 
our country. 

The energy tax package also includes 
a new incentive for the production of 
renewable biodiesel. This provision 
means jobs in the heartland. Renewable 
fuels have directly generated over 
150,000 new jobs. In fact, in this year 
alone, this industry will add 22,000 new 
jobs. 

Another provision creates a tax incentive 
for the production of super energy-
efficient appliances which is critical 
to the 95,000 employees in the U.S. 
home appliance industry. 

The bill also includes a provision to 
accelerate the production of natural 
gas from Alaska and the construction 
of a pipeline for natural gas from Alaska 
to the lower 48. According to the 
Department of Labor, Bureau of Economic 
Analysis, construction of the 
Alaska natural gas pipeline would create 
nearly 400,000 jobs in construction, 
trucking, manufacturing, and other 
service sectors. 

The jobs and manufacturing bill provides 
all this tax relief, nearly $170 bil


lion worth, and remains revenue neutral, 
meaning there is no net cost to 
the Federal Treasury. That cannot be, 
one would think—$170 billion of tax 
changes; and we have not affected the 
income coming into the Federal Treasury 
by one dime. That is pretty significant 
for people worried about the budget 
deficit. People ask: We have a budget 
deficit; how can you reduce the corporation 
tax and create jobs? How can 
you give all these tax incentives to 
bring about alternative energy and 
conservation and have a national energy 
policy, without costing a lot of 
money? 

There are a lot of unfair things in the 
Tax Code and we take care of those unfair 
things. Basically, there are some 
corporations playing games with the 
Tax Code to avoid taxation. We are 
going to plug those loopholes. 

This bill is paid in full by extending 
custom user fees, shutting down abusive 
tax shelters, and attacking the 
abusive tax strategies used by companies 
such as Enron—strategies we unearthed 
during our Finance Committee 
Enron investigation last October. The 
Finance Committee held hearings on 
the status of abusive tax shelter activity. 
During that hearing, we received 
anonymous testimony from a leasing 
industry executive describing how U.S. 
corporations are able to take tax deductions 
for the Paris sewer lines and 
the New York subway system. Did you 
hear me right? American corporations 
are taking tax deductions for Paris 
sewer lines and the New York subway 
system. They are claiming tax deductions 
on taxpayer-funded infrastructure 
located not only in the United 
States but overseas. 

One can imagine the surprise of the 
members of the Senate Finance Committee 
upon learning the U.S. taxpayer 
is subsidizing the cost of electric transmission 
lines in the Australian Outback. 


This jobs in manufacturing bill is 
revenue neutral because we end this 
abuse of the Tax Code. It was shortly 
after the attack on September 11, 2001 
we saw the beginning exodus of U.S. 
companies moving their corporate 
headquarters to tax havens for the sole 
purpose of evading U.S. taxes. It was 
the events of September 11 and the ensuing 
stock market plunge that provided 
companies with a cost-efficient 
way to get out of the United States, to 
cheat on their taxes. 

You may recall the videotape of a Big 
Four accounting firm partner saying 

U.S. companies were resistant to this 
scheme out of a post-9/11 sense of patriotism 
and national duty. But that employee 
said patriotism would have to 
take a backseat when they see their 
improved earnings per share. 
Now here you have 3,000 Americans 
killed on September 11 when the terrorists 
attacked our country. Then you 
have these big accounting firms marketing 
these tax shelters—that maybe 
would raise some question about the 
new patriotic fervor in this country be


cause we have been attacked—telling 
people: You are going to forget all 
about that when you see your new 
earnings report. Corporations like that 
ought to get their heart into America 
or get their rear end out because what 
this country is all about is pulling together, 
particularly now in time of 
war. 

The JOBS bill includes measures to 
shut down corporate expatriation and 
to limit the tax benefits for those corporate 
cheats that manage to get out 
under the wire before Congress can 
enact this legislation. We will shut 
down that abuse in this bill. All we 
have to do to do these obvious things is 
to convince a few people who are stalling 
this bill with nongermane amendments 
that this bill needs to get 
passed. 

There is so much good in this bill. We 
can rescue the manufacturing sector. 
We can end this European tax on our 
exports to Europe and continue to sell 
over there. Pretty soon that market is 
going to be shut down. 

We can respond to the recent rise in 
gas prices because in this bill we have 
a national energy policy for alternative 
fuels and conservation and for stimulating 
fossil fuel development, and we 
are going to pay for it all by shutting 
down every known tax abuse. 

But we cannot do any of this without 
the support it takes to pass this bill. 
And I do not mean final passage, because 
when this bill comes to final passage, 
it is going to pass overwhelmingly. 
What I am talking about is getting 
to finality. People all over this 
body are telling me: Well, this bill is 
going to pass. This bill is going to pass. 
But those very same people are hooking 
this nongermane amendment or 
that nongermane amendment on to 
this bill. Well, we have accommodated 
even those people with nongermane 
amendments. 

I do not have any fault with the legitimacy 
of the subject matter of their 
amendments because it is legitimate 
debate, particularly in the Senate. But 
it seems to me we should not be gambling 
with manufacturing jobs in 
America. We should not be gambling 
with whether we ought to have a national 
energy policy. 

And, for sure, if you are one of the 
Members who is complaining about 
corporations not paying their fair 
share—and we are shutting down these 
tax shelters—you ought to be in the 
forefront of getting this bill passed. It 
is unbelievable to me this bill has been 
held up for so long over political 
gamesmanship. It is time to put the 
adults back in charge. It is time to 
pass this very important bill to aid our 
manufacturing sector, to remove tariffs 
off our farmers and workers on 
products shipped to Europe, and to 
place the Senate back on its footing to 
do its job and move legislation—this 
legislation—that will benefit the 
American people. 

I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Montana. 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4741 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, the battle 
to enact this bill has certainly— 
thankfully—not been compared to a 
war. But I do believe we can now say 
this bill is at least what Prime Minister 
Winston Churchill is reputed to 
have said after the British victory at 
El Alamein, when he said: ‘‘[I]t is, perhaps, 
the end of the beginning.’’ 

Perhaps we may even say what 
Talleyrand said after the Russian victory 
at Borodino, when he said: ‘‘It is 
the beginning of the end.’’ 

In either case, I believe by obtaining 
an exclusive list of amendments—that 
is, Senators already agreeing to a finite 
list—we have a victory. We may 
now say we can work to the end of this 
bill. And well we should, because we 
still have not won the battle to create 
jobs here in America. 

I refer you to this chart I have in the 
Chamber. Yes, the economy did turn in 
one good month of job growth in 
March. The American economy created 
a net of 308,000 new jobs. But as this 
chart shows, one good month does not 
a recovery make. On this chart, the 
green bars are the months of job creation, 
and the red bars are the months 
of job loss. As the chart shows, March 
was, indeed, a strong month for job 
growth with more than 300,000 new 
jobs. But March was the only month in 
the last 4 years where there was that 
much job growth. 

In contrast, during the 8 years of the 
Clinton administration, the economy 
turned in 25 months with more than 
300,000 net new jobs per month. The 
economy as a whole still has a long 
way to go before it is creating jobs at 
that level. 

Anyone who has talked to people trying 
to get a good job knows the job 
market remains soft. In March, for example, 
a record 354,000 jobless workers 
exhausted their regular State unemployment 
benefits without qualifying 
for any additional Federal unemployment 
assistance. To reduce the ranks 
of the unemployed, the economy will 
need to sustain strong job creation. 

Look at the next chart. This chart 
shows the number of private sector 
jobs in the American economy, incorporating 
the latest numbers. It shows 
the private sector still has 2.7 million 
fewer jobs than it had in December of 
the year 2000. As shown on this chart, 
here we are in December of 2000, and 
you can see that is where the private 
sector jobs peaked. The chart clearly 
shows the number has declined significantly 
to the current date, a loss of, I 
think, about 3 million jobs on a net 
basis. 

This next chart shows manufacturing 
remains in a slump. The manufacturing 
sector has lost more than 3 million jobs 
since July of 2000. I might say, I can 
also see this state of affairs in my 
home State of Montana. In Montana, 
for example, wood products companies 
provide nearly 37 percent of our manufacturing 
jobs—over a third. But a decade 
ago, those jobs made up 47 percent 
of our manufacturing. That is almost 

one-half of all manufacturing jobs. Employment 
in wood products dropped almost 
5 percent last year alone. 

This final chart shows the number of 
jobs in American manufacturing remains 
at the lowest level in more than 
a half a century. A half a century ago— 
the level shown here on the chart—was 
roughly 14 million jobs, a little bit 
more than 14 million jobs, the same as 
it is today. Just to repeat that: The 
number of jobs in American manufacturing 
remains at the lowest level in 
more than half a century. That is a 
strong statement. So we continue to 
need to act on the legislation before us. 

More importantly, I must say, I have 
heard from folks in my State of Montana 
who tell the reason why we need 
to act on this bill. Let me give you an 
example of some of their frustration. 

Keni from Hamilton, MT, wrote: 

All our good jobs are being sent overseas to 
a cheaper labor market, and we’re fed bovine 
manure . . . [about] all the great jobs [our 
American economy is] creating. 

Then there is Christopher, who was 
laid off in February of 2003. Christopher 
writes: 

Many of those individuals [with jobs] have 
to do two or three other people’s jobs in 
order to keep their own. 

Now listen to Kay. Kay wrote that 
the economy ‘‘bring[s] no new 
business[es] to speak of in[to] Montana 
that pay any kind of decent wage, 
keeping the poor, poor. When is it 
going to end?’’ 

We have to end the loss of good jobs. 
We need to do what we can to help create 
good manufacturing jobs here in 
America. That is what this legislation 
before us is about. 

We have conducted a number of battles 
on this bill. The Senate has conducted 
four rollcall votes on this bill. 

The Senate has adopted 11 amendments: 
from tax shelters, major provisions 
to close loopholes, to the R&D 
tax credit, which is very popular and 
needed by American industry; to government 
jobs offshore, discouraging 
jobs from going offshore, to expiring 
provisions; that is, the provisions in 
the Code which have expired or are 
about to expire and need to be continued; 
to accelerating the manufacturing 
tax credit, an amendment offered by 
Senator STABENOW which improved the 
manufacturing deduction of the bill; 
and we added in an amendment to the 
energy tax provisions, the tax provisions 
that passed the Finance Committee 
dealing with energy production. 

At this point we have an exclusive 
list of additional amendments. Senators 
have preserved their rights and 
listed 83 amendments on that list. 
Fifty of those listed amendments preserve 
the rights of Senators in the majority, 
while 33 preserve the rights of 
Senators in the minority. Of the total 
of 83 amendments, Senators have listed 
36 simply with the word ‘‘relevant’’ or 
similar language. Although we might 
expect Senators to offer some of these 
amendments, experience tells us that 
an overwhelming majority of those 

amendments, listed merely as ‘‘relevant,’’ 
will probably be dropped from 
the list. Of the remaining 47 amendments, 
I believe Senators will modify 
many of them so the Senate may agree 
to them without rollcall votes. 

Realistically, I expect that probably 
fewer than 20 of the amendments on 
that list will require rollcall votes. 
Nearly all Senators from this side of 
the aisle, those with amendments on 
the list, have indicated to this Senator 
that they would be willing to abide by 
short time agreements, none more than 
1 hour equally divided, so this exercise 
need not take much time. 

We have now been on the bill, counting 
today, on 9 separate days over the 
course of 4 separate weeks. I hope we 
can now stay on this bill until its completion. 
I believe the Senate can now 
complete the bill over the course of a 
matter of days. 

What the preacher said in Ecclesiastes 
applies to this bill: 

Better is the end of a thing than the beginning 
thereof. 

I look forward to working with my 
colleagues to the end of this bill. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. 

DOLE). The Senator from Wyoming. 

Mr. THOMAS. Mr. President, I come 
to the floor to support the chairman 
and senior ranking member on this legislation. 
I know they have talked about 
it in great detail and explained it thoroughly. 
My point is, it is time for us to 
move forward. 

We have been on the bill for a frustratingly 
long time. We have gone to 
the bill three times. But this isn’t the 
only one. We seem to be having the 
same experience with many of the interesting 
bills, such as highway legislation, 
the budget, moving forward with 
jobs. It seems to me we ought to examine 
ourselves and see where we are in 
terms of doing the job we were assigned 
to do, and that is to move forward dealing 
with those issues that are pertinent 
to this country. 

I support passage of the JOBS bill. It 
is interesting that at a time when we 
are concerned about jobs, concerned 
about continued economic growth, having 
a deficit in the trade balance, concerned 
about manufacturing jobs, here 
we are with some reasons to do things 
that would impact all those issues, and 
we continue not to do it. It is time we 
come to the snubbing post and talk 
about what we have to do to get this 
job done. 

There are, of course, different views 
of what should be done, and I understand 
that. There are different ideas. 
The bottom line is, when you have a 
bill and it has a purpose, that is what 
we ought to be talking about, not 
about loading it up with everything 
that everyone intended at one point or 
another to include so that it becomes 
so controversial that the core values, 
the reason it is there, never happens. 
That is basically where we are. 

This is basically a bill that was 
brought to the committee. The Senators 
have at one time talked about 


S4742 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

giving 3 percent encouragement for 
people to send goods overseas. The 
World Trade Organization ruled 
against that and said it was unfair and 
said, If you don’t do something about 
it, we are going to continue to add penalties 
to this area. 

We are now at 7 percent. Each week 
it can be added to be a higher percentage. 
That is what the basic bill is 
about. There are lots of things involving 
taxes and lots of things involving a 
million things you could do. But we 
ought not to forget what the purpose of 
it is, and we need to go back to that 
purpose and say: Wait a minute here; 
we need to get that finished. 

It is really interesting. At some 
point, this is broader than that, but I 
think we have to take a look at the 
role of the Federal Government and 
what we are doing. We ought to take a 
little time, and I am in the process of 
trying to find out all of the various 
agencies and activities that are funded 
by this Congress. I think we would be 
amazed. Every time we see a little 
problem, every time we see something 
here, every time a constituent wants 
something, suddenly we have a Federal 
program for it. And then it is amazing 
we say to ourselves: Where is all this 
money going? 

I can tell you where it is going. We 
are continuing to have more and more 
programs, and we need to take a look 
at putting those in some kind of a priority 
as to what the role really is of 
the Federal Government. 

Unfortunately, I am sure it is true, 
many of the things here are strictly political. 
They are simply things that a 
Senator wants to spell out his political 
situation by offering an amendment. 
Whether or not it ever passes, you can 
go home and tell the folks: I sure 
worked on that one, you know. 

Well, that is not what these things 
are for. That is not what they are for. 
Amendments should be perfecting the 
base, perfecting the purpose for the 
bill. Then if we want to do all these 
other things, let them stand on their 
own. 

I happen to be a big supporter of the 
Energy bill. We put together a total 
Energy bill. Frankly, if I had my way 
about it, we would keep it together because 
we are talking about the whole. 
It is a policy. You are talking about 
what you do about alternative sources. 
You are talking about what you do 
about conservation as to how you can 
use less energy. You are talking about 
the way you substitute and do research 
to develop new ideas. You are talking 
about domestic production—all those 
things. But when you start taking it 
apart, then it becomes very difficult to 
deal with all the issues that ought to 
be there. Nevertheless, this is the way 
it is. 

I support it because we do need to do 
something. But there are an awful lot 
of issues that aren’t there that ought 
to be in the energy policy that are 
being left behind. It makes it less likely 
they will be passed. We have things 

like trade adjustment assistance to 
service workers. That is an issue that 
ought to be talked about, I suppose, 
but it should not be addressed in this 
bill. It costs $5 billion over 10 years. We 
have that one on there. We have overtime 
rules, trying to go back and 
change the rules that are put in by the 
administration. What does that have to 
do with doing something about WTO? 
Nothing. But it is one of the issues that 
is going to hold us up. 

This JOBS bill is designed to save 
hundreds of thousands of manufacturing 
jobs, alleviate the tax burden on 
businesses, and allow manufacturers to 
freely compete with their European 
counterparts. That is what it is for. As 
a result of a 2001 WTO ruling, which I 
have already mentioned, the European 
Union initiated a phase-in of punitive 
tariffs. That is in the process right 
now. It started at 5, it is at 7, and it is 
going to continue. So we need to focus 
on that issue and do something about 
it. 

The bill reported by the Finance 
Committee represents a strong, bipartisan 
effort to accomplish key objectives 
for manufacturers. It is one that 
enhances the ability of U.S.-based companies 
to compete in an international 
market; provides a lower tax rate on 
manufacturing goods; makes the tax 
burden of U.S. manufacturers closer to 
the international competition; enhances 
the financial strength of U.S. 
companies, creating incentives for 
them to invest in workers, facilities, 
and community. 

Our manufacturing sector, of course, 
has faced many challenges over the 
last number of years and will continue 
to. We are in a changing economic situation. 
Interestingly enough, many 
manufacturers produce more goods 
through efficiency. They actually have 
less workers and are producing more 
goods than before. That indicates we 
have to broaden our kinds of manufacturing 
and do more in different areas. 

We need to stay focused on this bill. 
I am becoming rather impatient with 
what is happening on the Senate floor, 
not only on this bill but on lots of bills 
where we continue to have endless 
numbers of these issues put on that do 
not belong there at all. We ought to 
come to an understanding that this is 
the issue that is being dealt with here. 
Let’s do it. This one is important and 
we should do it. These amendments 
need to end. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Iowa is recognized. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3107 

Mr. HARKIN. Madam President, I 
send an amendment to the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the amendment. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Iowa [Mr. HARKIN] proposes 
an amendment numbered 3107. 

Mr. HARKIN. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that further 
reading of the amendment be dispensed 
with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 
(Purpose: To amend the Fair Labor Stand


ards Act of 1938 to clarify provisions relat


ing to overtime pay) 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. ll. PROTECTION OF OVERTIME PAY. 

Section 13 of the Fair Labor Standards Act 
of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 213) is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 

‘‘(k) Notwithstanding the provisions of 
subchapter II of chapter 5 and chapter 7 of 
title 5, United States Code (commonly referred 
to as the Administrative Procedures 
Act) or any other provision of law, any portion 
of the final rule promulgated on April 
23, 2004, revising part 541 of title 29, Code of 
Federal Regulations, that exempts from the 
overtime pay provisions of section 7 any employee 
who would not otherwise be exempt if 
the regulations in effect on March 31, 2003 remained 
in effect, shall have no force or effect 
and that portion of such regulations (as in 
effect on March 31, 2003) that would prevent 
such employee from being exempt shall remain 
in effect. Notwithstanding the preceding 
sentence, the increased salary requirements 
provided for in such final rule at 
section 541.600 of such title 29, shall remain 
in effect.’’. 

Mr. HARKIN. Madam President, I return 
to the Senate floor this afternoon 
to address an issue of utmost importance 
to working Americans and their 
families, and that is time-and-a-half 
overtime pay and the seemingly relentless 
campaign by the Bush administration 
to take away the overtime rights 
of many American workers. This effort 
to take away time-and-a-half overtime, 
to jiggle the rules, cloud it all up, is 
one of the most anti-worker, anti-family 
proposals to come along in my tenure 
in the Congress. 

As most Senators know by now, my 
amendment serves the simplest of purposes. 
It lets stand the new threshold 
of $23,660 below that which all workers 
are automatically eligible for overtime. 
My amendment lets that part of 
the proposal stand. My amendment 
also guarantees that no worker who 
currently is eligible to receive overtime 
pay will lose that right to overtime 
pay under the new rule. 

Again, my amendment does two 
things. It lets stand that part of the 
final rule that raises the threshold to 
$23,660. The other part of my amendment 
also guarantees that no worker 
who is currently getting overtime pay 
will lose that right under any new rule. 
It is very simple, very straightforward. 

Madam President, this is a subject I 
feel very deeply about, and I am not 
alone. Wherever I travel in the United 
States and in Iowa, people talk to me 
about what overtime pay means to 
them and their families. Many become 
quite emotional about it. They know 
what the administration is trying to do 
and they are angry. They want action 
to be taken to stop these new overtime 
rules. 

One of the reasons they are angry is 
because they know what this chart 
shows: The average annual working 
hours of the American worker in the 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4743 

United States is more than any worker 
anywhere in the industrialized world. 
It is more than in Canada, Japan, Australia, 
France, and Germany. Our average 
annual work hours are more than 
anyone, anywhere in the world. American 
workers know that because they 
are the ones doing the work. 

Since passage of the Fair Labor 
Standards Act in 1938, overtime rights 
and the 40-hour work week have been 
sacrosanct, respected by Presidents of 
both parties. Last year, the Bush administration 
launched a frontal assault 
on this time-honored principle. The Department 
of Labor proposes changes to 
the overtime rules that, according to 
the best analysis we could muster, 
would have taken overtime pay eligibility 
away from up to 8 million American 
workers. That proposal really was 
breathtaking. The administration proposed 
this without consulting Congress, 
without holding public hearings. 
It actually took several weeks for 
many of us to realize the magnitude of 
what the administration was proposing. 
In fact, some of the most harmful 
provisions of the proposed rule were 
not discovered until months later. 

Finally, we were shocked to discover 
that the administration was proposing 
to strip overtime pay from police officers, 
firefighters, veterans, nurses, and 
many others. The radicalism and audacity 
of this proposal is without parallel 
in modern day labor legislation. 
Of course, once the true intent and extent 
of the proposed rule became 
known, many of those affected were in 
open rebellion. 

As this issue spilled over into this 
election year, frankly, this became a 
huge political liability for the administration. 
Late last year, during consideration 
of the Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education appropriations 
bill, I offered a similar 
amendment in the Senate—it passed by 
a margin of 54–45—to block the worst 
aspects of the administration’s overtime 
proposal. Following that, the 
House of Representatives, by a margin 
of 221–203, voted to instruct its conferees 
to support the Senate’s position 
in conference. Unfortunately, White 
House officials instructed the conferees 
to delete my amendment from the Omnibus 
appropriations bill, and that is 
why we are back here today. 

It must be pointed out that since we 
last debated this amendment, the Department 
of Labor has issued its final 
rule on overtime. In this final rule, the 
Department appears to have had something 
of an election year conversion. 
Under extreme pressure from working 
Americans, as well as critics in Congress, 
the administration has backed 
off its attempt to strip overtime from 
certain high-profile groups, such as 
rank-and-file police officers, firefighters, 
and emergency medical technicians. 


I salute the efforts of many individuals 
and groups and labor unions who 
have fought hard and forced the administration 
to abandon several of its of


fensive and egregious proposals. Let’s 
be under no illusion about this final 
rule. We have progressed—if that is the 
right term—from a proposed rule that 
was profoundly terrible to a final rule 
that is just plain terrible. 

The administration’s model seems to 
be that if at first you don’t succeed in 
limiting the overtime pay of American 
workers, try, try again and spin like 
crazy. Again, Madam President, I ask 
that those who look at this final rule 
not just compare it to the proposed 
rule. As I said, we went from profoundly 
terrible to just plain terrible. 
So I suppose if you compared the final 
rule with the proposed rule, you would 
say it is better. I think the proper 
yardstick of measurement is to measure 
the final rule compared to what we 
have today. Who loses? What happens 
to our right to overtime in that regard? 


Make no mistake: Even with the 
changes from the proposed rule, this 
final rule is a radical rewrite of the 
rules governing eligibility for overtime. 
It would deny time-and-a-half 
overtime pay to millions of workers 
earning as little as $23,660 per year. By 
and large, these are low- to middle-income 
workers who don’t have a strong 
organized voice, so the administration 
may feel it can run roughshod over 
their rights. That is why we in Congress 
must be their voice and their 
vote on this matter. 

Of course, the administration denies 
this. Its public posture is all smiles and 
happy talk, including the audacious 
claim that no workers earning less 
than $100,000 a year will lose their right 
to overtime. Frankly, at this point, the 
administration has zero credibility on 
this issue. 

As I said, when the proposed rule was 
issued a year ago, it took months of 
reading the fine print before one realized 
how destructive it was, and only 
belatedly do we discover that the administration 
was giving tips and advice 
to employers as to how they could 
avoid paying overtime to employees 
under the new rule. 

Here we go again. Once again, the administration 
is all smiles and happy 
talk. Once again, the administration is 
assuring workers they will not lose 
their overtime rights. When the Bush 
administration smiles and says it is 
here to fix overtime, I have five words 
of advice for American workers: hold 
on to your wallets. 

Why exactly is the administration so 
eager to ‘‘fix’’ overtime? Now I know 
why many corporations and employer 
groups want to fix overtime. They 
want to pay fewer workers overtime. It 
is very clear. But is anyone clamoring 
for this? 

I frequently visit manufacturing 
plants, and never, ever has a factory 
worker come up to me and said: You 
know, Senator HARKIN, too many of us 
are getting overtime pay. It is broken 
and you need to fix it. 

I frequently visit hospitals. Never 
has a nurse come up to me and said: 

Senator HARKIN, it is not right that I 
am receiving overtime pay when I work 
50 hours a week. You need to go back 
to Washington and fix this overtime 
mess. 

Back home in Iowa, I love to go to 
Dairy Queens. It is something my colleague 
and I share when we go back to 
Iowa, Dairy Queen, but no one ever, in 
a Dairy Queen making hamburgers or 
Blizzards, or a working supervisor, has 
come up to me and said: Senator HARKIN, 
I don’t deserve time and a half 
overtime pay. You need to fix it immediately. 


I will go one step further. Not one 
employer in my State of Iowa has come 
up to me and complained about paying 
overtime pay under existing rules. Not 
one. 

Now the Department of Labor is saying 
to the American workers: Hi, we 
are from Washington, and we are here 
to improve your overtime rights. 

Is there anybody at this point in 
America who believes that? Working 
families are not buying it. They have a 
simple message for the Department of 
Labor: Keep your hands off our right to 
overtime pay. 

Let me repeat the administration’s 
central claim. No workers earning less 
than $100,000 a year will lose their right 
to overtime. This claim is demonstrably 
false. 

This chart shows in simplest terms 
the impact of the new rule. It is clear 
that employees earning less than 
$23,660 a year, automatically will be 
paid overtime regardless of what they 
do. The new rule will make it very easy 
to exempt most workers making over 
$100,000. It will not totally, but most 
will be exempt. 

We just learned that some of the oil 
rig workers, for example, in Alaska and 
off the coast of Louisiana who work 
under hazardous conditions and are 
away from their families a lot—some of 
them may make a little over $100,000. I 
guess I can’t blame them. These are 
hard-working people and they are away 
from their families. It is a hazardous 
occupation. They, too, may be stripped 
of their overtime rights simply because 
they make $100,000 a year. I don’t think 
it is correct we should do that. 

It has come to my attention in the 
last few hours that oil rig workers 
would also have their right to overtime 
stripped. 

The real gray area is from $100,000 to 
$23,000. People in that area are saying 
people will not lose their right to overtime. 
A careful analysis of the new rule 
makes it abundantly clear that certain 
jobs and professional categories in this 
gray area will be ineligible for overtime. 


To cite one glaring example, under 
the new rule, a worker who leads a 
team of other workers loses his or her 
right to overtime. Under the old rule, 
there was no provision concerning so-
called ‘‘team leaders.’’ There is no such 
term in present rules. But the new 
rule, under section 541.203(c) states: 

An employee who leads a team of other 
employees assigned to complete other 


S4744 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

projects for the employer meets the requirements 
for exemption— 

Listen to the following words— 
even if the employee does not have direct supervisory 
responsibility over the employees 
on the team. 

Talk about a loophole. This team 
leader loophole is big enough to drive 
an Amtrak train through. Team leaders 
are commonplace throughout the 
manufacturing and services sectors. 
They are especially common in factories, 
refineries, chemical plants, and 
other places. MIT professor of management 
Thomas Kochan estimates that 
this team leader loophole alone could 
deny overtime rights to as many as 2.3 
million workers making above $23,660 a 
year and less than $100,000 a year—a 
team leader. 

Again, I point out that the term 
‘‘team leader’’ exists nowhere in the 
present rules. It is now put in the final 
rule, ‘‘team leader.’’ But guess what. 
There is no definition of a team leader. 
There is no definition. It is up to the 
employer to define it. So any employer 
can define a team leader as they wish. 
And that team leader, as I pointed out 
in the rule, does not have to have direct 
supervisory responsibility over 
employees on the team. That team 
leader could be a team leader for, say, 
5 minutes a week. Maybe it is a Friday 
afternoon get-together to discuss what 
went on the week before, and all of a 
sudden you are a team leader for that 
1 hour of discussion. You are not exempt. 
Your employer can now exempt 
you from overtime simply by calling 
you a team leader. So in the rules 
there is no definitional structure of 
what a team leader is. It is a huge loophole. 


Section 541.303(b) strips overtime 
rights from nursery school teachers 
earning more than $23,660. Under section 
541.604, registered nurses who are 
salaried could be denied overtime. 
Large parts of the financial services industry 
are no longer eligible for overtime 
under the new rule. 

According to an analysis by the 
Houston Chronicle, labor relations, 
public relations, human relations, and 
government relations employees will 
be ineligible for overtime under the 
new rule. Funeral directors and embalmers 
will be ineligible. Insurance 
claim adjustors will be ineligible. 
Many outside sales representatives will 
be ineligible. 

In addition, many computer services 
employees will lose their right to overtime, 
including programmers, network, 
and database administrators. 

I would also point out that the new 
rule includes loopholes and artful language 
that will strip overtime from 
several broad occupational categories. 
For example, the new rule will make it 
much easier for management to reclassify 
workers earning as little as $23,660 
a year as professional employees. So 
you could be making $24,000 a year and 
your employer could reclassify you as 
professional, and you will be ineligible 
for overtime. 

Employees will no longer need college 
degrees to be considered professionals 
exempt from overtime. Work 
experience will be enough. Under the 
present rules that have existed for 
many years, it pointed out to get an 
exemption under the professional status 
one had to have a 4-year degree. 
That was sort of the minimum. That 
was the minimum one needed to be exempt. 


Now a person does not need that. All 
they have to have is work experience. 
For example, section 541–301(d) strips 
overtime rights from cooks and chefs 
who have ‘‘substantially the same 
knowledge’’ and perform the same 
work as cooks or chefs with 4-year culinary 
arts degrees. In addition, the new 
rule will make it much easier for management 
to reclassify workers earning 
as little as $23,660 as executive employees 
who will be ineligible for overtime 
pay. Under the present rule, employees 
that spend the majority of their time, 
50 percent or more, doing administrative, 
management, or professional 
work lose their right to overtime under 
the executive category. Under the new 
rule, employees who do even a small 
amount of administrative, management, 
or professional work can lose 
their overtime rights. 

For example, a McDonald’s franchise 
assistant manager who spends most of 
her time making hamburgers or filling 
orders, making french fries, but spends 
10 percent of her time performing supervisory 
duties, could be reclassified 
as executive and be ineligible for overtime. 
Think about that. In the past, 
the threshold was 50 percent. One had 
to spend at least 50 percent of one’s 
time in an executive or an administrative 
capacity to be exempt from overtime 
pay. Now there is no threshold. It 
can be as little as 5 percent, 10 percent; 
nobody knows. It does not make any 
difference. It is whatever an employer 
says. 

So guess what. A person is now working 
at a McDonald’s franchise. They 
are making hamburgers and french 
fries and filling orders, which is pretty 
tough work. They move pretty fast. 
They are making $24,000 a year. All of 
a sudden the owner comes in and says: 
You are now an executive. Do you not 
feel good? I am going to put a little 
name up there, Susan Smith, executive. 
Now you are an executive. You 
feel great. There is a certificate. You 
are now an executive. You can hang 
that on your wall at home. By the way, 
you do not get anymore overtime pay. 

I wonder how many American workers 
would feel good about that, that 
now they are an executive but they 
lose their right to overtime pay. 

I can go on at great length naming 
others who will be denied overtime 
under the new rule, but I have made 
my point. The administration claims 
no workers earning between $23,660 and 
$100,000 a year will be denied overtime. 
That statement is false. All of these 
people, veterans, police, nurses—I 
talked about the team leaders—jour


nalists, I have talked about that, 
cooks, financial services, computer 
workers, working foremen, and many 
others, because they can be reclassified 
as executive, administrative, or professional, 
under very ambiguous and 
clouded procedures or definitions, 
could lose their right to overtime pay. 

My second chart is very revealing 
again as to what is going on. There are 
152 pages in the new rule. As the chart 
goes, only 15 pages are devoted to the 
highly compensated employees test, 
which is $100,000 or more, and the minimum 
salary test, which is $23,660 or 
less. Fifteen pages are devoted to those 
two categories, and 137 pages are devoted 
to those who make between 
$23,660 and $100,000. 

I have to tell my colleagues something. 
If the administration were sincere 
in its assertion that no worker 
earning between $23,660 and $100,000 a 
year would lose their overtime rights, 
believe me, it would not take 137 pages 
to say so. The administration could 
have said it in one or two sentences. 
Instead, the new rule spends 137 pages 
spinning a web of artful language, calculated 
ambiguity, and outright loopholes 
such as the team leader loophole, 
a complex web designed to catch workers 
and strip them of their overtime. 

It is ironic that one of the administration’s 
main justifications for proposing 
a new rule on overtime was to 
bring clarity and reduce litigation. 
They said this is one of the reasons 
they are doing it, to bring clarity and 
reduce litigation. 

This final rule is shot through with 
artful, ambiguous language that clearly 
favors employers. This is guaranteed 
to lead to scores of lawsuits and years 
of litigation as workers fight to retain 
their overtime rights. If increasingly 
conservative courts rule in favor of employers, 
countless additional workers 
will lose their right to overtime. 

For example, in several places, the 
final rule broadens what used to be a 
narrow test. By definition, this will 
mean less position, less clarity, not 
more. The final rule is far from clear. 
As I said, who can be classified as team 
leaders? It is not defined. The employer 
defines that. 

What is a working foreman? It is up 
to the employer to decide what is a 
working foreman. Once they decide, a 
person is ineligible for overtime. 

When Congress enacted the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938, it anticipated 
there would be a number of less 
than honorable employers who would 
try to cheat workers out of overtime, 
so Congress included a penalty provision 
that would act as a strong deterrent. 
Under the present rule, if an employer 
is cheating employees out of 
overtime, the penalty can be massive. 
If found guilty, all employees in the enterprise, 
including salaried employees 
who are exempt from overtime, must 
be paid time and a half overtime for 
the period the improper practices were 
taking place. That is a tough deterrent. 



May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4745 

In other words, if an unscrupulous 
employer was cheating an employee 
out of overtime and they were taken to 
court and found guilty of doing that, 
they did not have to pay only that employee 
back, they had to pay everyone 
in the enterprise time and a half overtime 
for the entire periods in question. 
They even had to pay time and a half 
to exempt employees who were exempt 
from overtime. As I said, a very tough 
deterrent. 

What does the new rule do? Under the 
new rule, the penalty is limited to the 
work unit where the violation was detected. 
This ignores the fact that in 
nearly all instances, overtime violations 
are not limited to a renegade supervisor. 
They are almost always a result 
of some companywide practice. 

So again, if an unscrupulous employer 
cheats an employee out of overtime 
and is caught and convicted, the 
company has to pay that employee 
back, and whoever is in that little 
work area, maybe two or three people. 
Before, they had to pay the entire enterprise. 
So we can see they have really 
watered this down. We have gone from 
kind of a nuclear deterrent under the 
old rule to kind of a pussycat deterrent 
under the new rule. 

Let me summarize. Under the new 
rule, many workers will legally lose 
their right to overtime and employers 
who cheat their workers out of overtime 
illegally will receive a penalty 
that amounts to less than a slap on the 
wrist. No wonder the Wall Street Journal 
has called the new rule a victory 
for business groups. 

It is time for Washington to listen to 
Main Street and not just Wall Street. 
Listen to ordinary working Americans. 
They are telling us loudly and clearly 
their number one issue is economic security. 
They are telling us they fear 
losing their jobs. They fear losing their 
health care. They fear losing their retirement. 
Now they fear losing their 
right to time-and-a-half compensation 
for overtime. They fear, with good reason, 
that under the Department of Labor’s 
new rule they will be obliged to 
work 45, 50, 60 hours a week with zero 
additional compensation. For millions 
of working Americans, this is unacceptable, 
and the last straw. 

For 65 years, the 40-hour week has allowed 
workers to spend time with their 
families instead of toiling past dark 
and on weekends. At a time when the 
family dinner is becoming an 
oxymoron, this standard is more important 
than ever. As I said earlier, 
this final rule on overtime is anti-
worker and anti-family. 

Given the fact that we are stuck in a 
jobless recovery, the timing could not 
be worse. It is yet another instance of 
the economic malpractice of this administration. 
Bear in mind that time-
and-a-half pay accounts for some 25 
percent of the total income of Americans 
who work overtime. With average 

U.S. income declining, the proposed 
changes would slash the paychecks of 
countless workers. Moreover, the proposed 
new rule is all but guaranteed to 
hurt job creation in the United States. 
This is just basic logic. If employers 
can more easily deny overtime pay, 
they will push their current employees 
to work longer hours without compensation. 
Workers without overtime 
rights are twice as likely to work more 
than 40 hours a week, according to the 
current statistics. They are three 
times as likely to work more than 50 
hours a week. With 9 million Americans 
currently out of work, why in the 
world do we want to give employers yet 
another disincentive to hire new workers? 


It is bad enough to deny American 
workers their overtime rights, but 
what is striking is the approach taken 
by the Department of Labor and the 
administration on this issue. As I already 
mentioned, no public hearings 
were held. There was no consultation 
with Congress. I have looked back and 
have done research. Every time I have 
been able to find in the past when we 
made changes to the Fair Labor Standards 
Act, Congress always had hearings, 
consulted with business, consulted 
with labor, and there was a process 
by which the public believed they 
had an input. That is not so this time. 

Also, something I think that is beyond 
comprehension, the Department 
has offered employers what amounts to 
a cheat sheet. It has offered employers 
helpful tips on how to avoid paying 
overtime to the lowest paid workers. I 
mean these, the ones who make less 
than $23,600 a year, down here. The administration 
has basically put out information. 
They say they want to help 
these people. They raise it to $23,660 
from about $8,000 a year—a good step. I 
compliment the administration for 
doing this. But they turn right around 
and tell employers how they can get by 
without paying them overtime. 

They recommend raising a worker’s 
salary slightly to meet the threshold. 
If you are an employee who is near this 
$23,660 level, they might want to raise 
your wages to $23,661. Guess what. 
Then you are no longer exempt. 

They also suggest cutting a worker’s 
hourly wage so any new overtime payments 
will not result in a net gain to 
the employee. Think about that. You 
say we are going to raise the threshold. 
Now, here is what you can do: cut the 
hourly wages so if you do have to pay 
them overtime it will all be the same. 
The employee will get the same 
amount of money, but the employee 
would be working 42, 43, 45, 48 hours a 
week. This is from the Department of 
Labor. They have actually put this out 
in print. It is disgraceful. 

There is one group that is disproportionately 
harmed by the new overtime 
rules—women. The fact is, women tend 
to dominate in retail, services, and 
sales positions, which would be particularly 
affected by the new rule. Married 
women increased their working 
hours by nearly 40 percent from 1979 to 
2000. As women have increased their 
time in the paid labor market, their 

contribution to the family income has 
also risen. These contributions are especially 
important to lower and middle-
income families. Yet now the administration’s 
new rule will take away 
overtime protections from millions of 
American women. 

Women in the paid workforce will be 
forced to work longer hours for less 
pay. And, of course, this means more 
time away from families and more 
childcare expenses, with no additional 
compensation. Not surprisingly, prominent 
women’s groups are adamantly 
opposed to the new overtime rules. The 
American Association of University 
Women, the National Organization of 
Women, the National Partnership of 
Women and Families, the YWCA, 9 to 5, 
the National Association of Working 
Women—among others, are all strongly 
supporting my amendment. 

Listen to what Sheila Perez of Bremerton, 
WA, says. She is a single parent 
working hard to support her family. 
When she leaves work after a difficult 
8-hour shift, she says: 

My second shift begins. There is dinner to 
cook, dishes to wash, laundry, and all the 
other housework that must be done, which 
adds another three or four hours to my workday. 


Ms. Perez said something also very 
powerful. She said: 

My time at home with my kids and family 
is truly my premium time . . . it is personal 
time. . . . it is the most valuable time of my 
day. So if I am required to work longer than 
eight hours . . . if I have to sacrifice that 
premium time with my family . . . then I 
ought to receive premium pay, that is, overtime 
pay. 

I agree wholeheartedly with Sheila 
Perez. If she is sacrificing personal 
time, her premium time with her family 
and her kids, it is only fair she be 
compensated on a premium basis with 
time-and-a-half overtime pay. 

I think there is a broader context for 
this discussion of overtime. It is sort of 
a bigger picture. As I said, the No. 1 
issue for Americans today is economic 
security, and with good reason, because 
it is abundantly clear that America is 
stuck in a largely jobless recovery. 
Since the administration took office, 
nearly 3 million private sector jobs 
have been lost, including one in every 
seven jobs in manufacturing. President 
Bush—George W. Bush—has presided 
over the greatest job loss of any President 
since the Great Depression. Yet he 
remains wedded to policies that make 
it worse. 

His administration has praised the 
outsourcing of jobs as something good 
for our economy. He has opposed any 
increase in the minimum wage. He has 
opposed extending unemployment benefits. 
Now, this administration wants 
to destroy the overtime rights of many 
hard-working Americans. 

There is no question, I suppose, that 
those policies have been good for 
wealthy investors. Corporate profits 
are rising, the stock market is up, CEO 
pay is up, and once again the rich are 
getting richer. But something is missing. 
Ordinary Americans are not participating 
in this so-called recovery. In 


S4746 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

fact, more and more Americans live in 
fear of losing their jobs, their health 
benefits, their retirement, and now 
their right to overtime pay. 

The truth is, we cannot build a sustainable 
recovery by exporting jobs, 
driving down wages, and making Americans 
work longer hours without compensation. 
Moreover, such a recovery is 
not desirable. A true recovery must include 
all Americans. It can only be 
built on a foundation of good jobs with 
good wages in America, not overseas. It 
can only be built on a foundation that 
includes a minimum wage that is a living 
wage and not a poverty wage. And 
it can only be built on a foundation 
that reserves Americans’ rights to 
time-and-a-half overtime pay over 40 
hours. 

So I urge my colleagues to support 
this amendment to protect the overtime 
rights of American workers. 
Again, I repeat, my amendment will let 
stand the positive provision of the rule 
which raises the low-income threshold 
to $23,660 and makes more workers 
automatically eligible for overtime. 

Now the administration again says it 
does not want to take away the overtime 
rights of anyone earning less than 
$100,000. If that is the case, then the administration 
should have no problem 
embracing my amendment because this 
amendment has a simple purpose: to 
guarantee that workers who are entitled 
to overtime pay now, today, will 
not lose their right under the new rule. 

I think the new rule is disingenuous. 
The administration is being disingenuous 
about it and knows full well this 
new rule will strip overtime eligibility 
for many workers earning less than 
$100,000. That is the reason it is being 
pushed aggressively. That is exactly 
why many corporations and groups are 
so keen to see this new rule adopted. 
But it is unfair. It is an attack on a 
basic right American workers have enjoyed 
for over 65 years, and it is bad 
economic policy. It will hurt job creation 
and reduce disposable income. 

I want to point out a few statements 
from others in support of my amendment. 


The Effect of Final Rules Silence on Police 
Sergeants. 

This is an April 28 press release from 
the International Union of Police Associations, 
the National Association of 
Police Organizations, and the International 
Brotherhood of Police Organizations. 


The DOL has done nothing to define the 
line between management and police duties 
for those above line-level officers. Once the 
final complex rules go into effect, their very 
ambiguity regarding the line between supervisory 
duties and traditional policing duties 
will undoubtedly shift the ball from the legislature 
to the courts. 

That is why they support my amendment. 


Here is a press release from the 
United American Nurses. 

The Effect of Final Rules Silence on 
Registered Nurses. 

In the midst of a registered nursing shortage 
that is projected to reach 808,000 RNs by 

2020, it is incomprehensible why this President 
wouldn’t do everything in his power to 
make sure that RNs are fairly compensated 
for the life-saving work we do. 

I mentioned earlier the professional 
loophole. This is from the code itself. 
This is the current regulation on learning 
professionals. 

As is well known, there are still a few practitioners 
who have gained their knowledge 
by home study and experience. Characteristically, 
the members of the profession are 
graduates of law schools, but some few of 
their fellow professionals whose status is 
equal to theirs, whose attainments are the 
same and whose word is the same did not 
enjoy that opportunity. Such persons are not 
barred from the exemption. The word ‘‘customarily’’ 
implies that in the vast majority 
of cases, the specific academic training is a 
prerequisite for transfer into the profession. 

This is what we have been operating 
under for years. 
. . . in the vast majority of cases, the spe


cific academic training is a prerequisite . . . 

Under the proposed rule, work experience—
even the experience you might 
have gotten in the military—would disqualify 
you from overtime. 

I want to make a point on this. I 
want to make a point on the veterans. 
When we debated this last year, we 
pointed out in the proposed rules it 
specifically mentioned those who were 
not learned professionals because they 
had a 4-year college degree but who had 
learned on-the-job training, including 
training in the military—those were 
the words: ‘‘including training in the 
armed forces.’’ We pointed out here on 
the floor this means someone going 
into the military and who received 
training in the Army and came out, because 
they received training in the 
military, they would be exempt from 
the right to get overtime. 

Guess what the administration did. 
In the final rule, they took those words 
out—‘‘training in the armed forces.’’ 

But what they didn’t do was change 
the underlying language which says basically 
you don’t have to have a 4-year 
college degree; you can have on-the-job 
training or work experience. It doesn’t 
say they couldn’t be in the military. 
They didn’t specifically exempt the 
military; they took out those four 
words. 

Under this final rule, veterans in the 
future will be different than veterans 
in the past if they receive training 
while in the military which they then 
use on the job later on. They may have 
their right to overtime pay taken away 
from them. 

This is sort of an example of the 
learned professional exemption. Let’s 
take a look at chefs. It basically says: 
Chefs, such as executive chefs who have 
attained a 4-year specialized degree in 
the culinary arts program, generally 
meet the duty requirement of the 
learned professional exemption. The 
learned professional exemption is not 
available to cooks who perform predominantly 
routine mental, manual, 
mechanical, or physical work. 

In other words, an executive chef who 
has fewer years is automatically ex


empt, but also if you, for example, at 
some point in time supervised someone 
at a McDonald’s, or whatever, then you 
would be exempt. 

That is the ambiguity of these rules. 

I could point out more and more. 
There are all kinds of different workers 
who are caught up in this kind of web 
of ambiguity. But I close by saying 
again the new rule is unfair. This kind 
of a process should have been done in 
Congress. It should have been done 
with the appropriate committees, with 
appropriate hearings and consultation 
and being very careful about how we 
are going to address this. 

I see nothing wrong—in fact, I see everything 
right—in what the administration 
is proposing in raising the 
threshold to $23,660. It should have 
been done a long time ago. But most of 
the rules do not pertain to them. The 
137 pages out of 152 pages pertain to 
those making over $23,660 a year, and it 
provides one loophole after another to 
deny the right to overtime pay for employees. 


I am hopeful we can have a strong bipartisan 
vote in support of this amendment. 
We can save the administration 
from making a terrible mistake. We 
can protect American workers’ right to 
overtime compensation and we can 
support an economic recovery that includes 
all Americans—a recovery that 
respects and preserves the American 
dream. Our workers deserve an ironclad 
guarantee that their overtime 
rights will be safe and nurtured as they 
have been in the past and are today. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Utah. 

Mr. BENNETT. Mr. President, I have 
listened with interest to my colleague 
from Iowa in his presentation. I rise to 
disagree with the positions he has 
taken. I will do my best to do it in a 
manner that is not disagreeable either 
to him or to others who are in support 
of this amendment. 

Let us understand, of course, the Fair 
Labor Standards Act is one of the most 
important protections American workers 
have. We all agree on that. But 
these provisions have not been updated, 
some for as long as 50 years. 
Some kind of clear updating is essential. 
In the process of updating regulations 
that go back as long as 50 years, 
some explanation was, of course, necessary 
which results in the number of 
pages my friend from Iowa has referred 
to. 

My problem with the Senator’s 
amendment is with a very broad brush 
and strong ax he cuts out a large chunk 
of the pages that have been made and 
says those things that are in place are 
going to stay in place. We are not 
going to allow any changes in these 
areas. His amendment is relatively 
short but very powerful in its impact 
on the overall bill. 

In an effort to understand this—because 
I am not an expert in these 
areas—my staff and I have reached out 
to HR directors throughout the State 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4747 

of Utah to get their reactions to the 
new proposal, and at the same time ask 
them what their response would be to 
what we understood the Harkin amendment 
to be. The reactions have been 
unanimous—No. 1, that the action of 
the Department of the Labor Department 
is long overdue and very welcome. 


One of the things I had not known 
until we got into this particular subject 
was the trial lawyers, whom we 
hear so much about in the Senate, have 
found a bonanza in class action lawsuits 
dealing with the Fair Labor 
Standards Act. Indeed, the bonanza has 
been primarily for the trial lawyers 
and not for the workers in whose name 
they bring these class action cases. 
This should not come as a surprise. We 
have seen other examples where this 
goes on. 

To quote from the Texas lawyer: 
Overtime litigation is attractive to 
trial lawyers because of the ‘‘astonishingly’’ 
high amount of money at stake. 

And Lawyers Weekly USA says: 
Boom in overtime suits, a danger for 
employers but a gold mine for plaintiffs’ 
lawyers. 

In the opinion of the HR directors we 
have spoken to on this issue, this boom 
for trial lawyers would not go away if 
the Harkin amendment were passed. 
Indeed, in their opinion, if the Harkin 
amendment were passed, it would mean 
more ambiguity, more uncertainty, 
and more opportunities for trial lawyers 
to file class action lawsuits. The 
reason for that is by freezing certain 
classifications that are in the current 
regulations forever forward as a result 
of the Harkin amendment and allowing 
other classifications to remain as they 
are in the new regulations, you could 
very well end up with two employees 
doing absolutely identical work, but 
because one of them was in place when 
the Harkin amendment was passed and 
the other was hired after this legislation 
was passed, they would have different 
classifications. A trial lawyer 
would come along and have a great 
deal of fun with that, perhaps win a 
judgment of some kind, tremendous 
fees for himself and not that much for 
the workers. 

Everyone we have spoken to on this 
issue has said over and over again: The 
Harkin amendment would make things 
much more difficult; the Harkin 
amendment would create an administrative 
nightmare to try to work our 
way through; the Harkin amendment 
should be opposed. 

They are all unanimous in saying the 
proposal by the Department of Labor is 
a good proposal. It will make their 
lives a whole lot easier because it will 
bring the regulations up to date, bring 
the regulations that are 50 years old 
into the 21st century, and allow people 
to begin to deal with these challenges 
in ways that are consonant with today’s 
labor market. 

My friend from Iowa talks about the 
jobless recovery. I recommend he spend 
a little time looking at the jobless 

claims that are being filed. The number 
of jobless claims being filed keeps 
going down week after week. People 
are no longer being laid off in the degree 
they were during the recession. As 
we saw in the month of March, 308,000 
new jobs were created. We are waiting 
for the April figures. The expectation 
is it will be over 100,000 new jobs created 
in April. The effects of the recession 
and the recovery period are wearing 
off, the jobs are coming back, the 
labor market is tightening up, and the 
Federal Reserve is talking about raising 
the overnight rate because they say 
the economy is coming back. They 
have not given a date for that. Economists 
have been expecting that to happen 
in September. After Chairman 
Greenspan’s appearance before the 
House Banking Committee, some 
thought it would happen as early as 
July. I do not have a crystal ball on 
that and do not pretend to know. As 
chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, 
I do know that virtually every 
economic indicator we have is up and 
pointing up. The economy is coming 
back very strongly. 

I hope the rhetoric about the terrible 
economic conditions in which we are 
currently operating will begin to 
change in light of the current economic 
information that contradicts it and 
says the economy is coming on very 
strongly. In that kind of economy, in 
that kind of situation where we are 
looking to the 21st century workforce, 
it only makes sense to upgrade, revamp, 
and modernize those portions of 
the Fair Labor Standards Act that are, 
in fact, 50 years old and have been languishing 
for a long time. There are 
definitions in that act of jobs that no 
longer exist. There are circumstances 
described in that act that are clearly 
out of touch with today’s economic reality 
and today’s labor marketplace. 

I congratulate Secretary Chao and 
the Department of Labor in the very 
careful way in which they have approached 
this issue. As nearly as I can 
tell, the only people who have any reason 
to fear these new regulations, the 
only people who have any reason to 
fear their incomes might go down as a 
result of these regulations are the trial 
lawyers who have taken advantage of 
the anachronisms in the existing regulation 
and filed all of these class action 
suits I have talked about. 

I have some examples of how the 
class action suits have muddied the 
water, based on the current regulations, 
many of which would be frozen 
in place by the Harkin amendment. 
Courts have interpreted the confusing 
regulations differently. In the Virginia 
court, a designer of electric equipment 
gets overtime; but in a New York 
court, a designer of electric systems 
does not get overtime as they have 
tried to determine a different meaning 
of these phrases. This would be cleared 
up by the new regulations proposed by 
the Department of Labor. In a Louisiana 
court, purchasing agents are entitled 
to overtime; but in an Oregon 

court, log merchandise buyers—to me, 
that is a purchasing agent—are not entitled 
to overtime. This is because 
these definitions are in the old regulations, 
the existing regulations. These 
definitions are anachronistic, they are 
uncertain, and they are being brought 
up to date, brought up to standard by 
Secretary Chao and her associates at 
the Department of Labor. 

But the Harkin amendment says, no, 
we will freeze these changes in place to 
make sure the past pattern does not 
change. Quite frankly, I want the past 
pattern to change. People who are involved, 
caught up in the difficulties of 
trying to handle the past pattern want 
them to change. They want modernization. 
They want these things to be updated. 
It is not being done in an effort 
to try to deny anybody overtime. If 
that had been the case, the administration 
would have left the number at 
8,000 instead of raising it close to 24,000 
as the threshold by which people could 
be reclassified. 

No, this is not an attempt to deny 
overtime to anyone. This is simply an 
attempt to bring the Fair Labor Standards 
Act regulations into the 21st century, 
bring them up to date with current 
economic reality, make them 
available and understandable to the HR 
directors in the various firms that deal 
with these challenges, and remove from 
the lives of those HR directors the tremendous 
ambiguity, uncertainty, and, 
frankly, stupidity that comes from regulations 
that are half a century old. 

I say to my colleagues, if there are 
portions of the work that the Labor 
Department has done that Members 
think you can improve upon, let us 
hear your arguments, let us look at 
your amendments. I am willing to do 
that. But to take a whole section of the 
bill and lock it in place in the way the 
Harkin amendment does, in my view, 
cuts against the whole purpose of this 
revision. It says we are going to keep 
in the law anachronistic positions that 
are 50 years old just because we are 
afraid something might happen. In a 
dynamic economy, something is always 
happening. Yes, sometimes it can be 
very painful. 

I know what it is to be looking for a 
job. I know what it is to be laid off. I 
know what it is to go without health 
insurance. I know what it is to dig into 
one’s savings and then see those disappear 
and slip into debt in an effort to 
keep things going. I have founded businesses, 
some of which have failed. And 
I do not get unemployment compensation 
when I am the boss and my business 
fails. I know how difficult this can 
be. 

So it is not a matter of not having 
appropriate sympathy or appropriate 
experience with those who are caught 
in economic changes. But at the same 
time, I recognize the genius of the 
American economic system is its ability 
to grow under all circumstances, as 
we traditionally have. We have had 
fewer recessions and more shallow recessions 
than our friends around the 


S4748 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

world who have attempted, through 
government, to monitor the economy 
and keep it under some kind of governmental 
control. 

Yes, it can be painful. But ultimately 
it produces more jobs, more wealth, 
more opportunity, and more security 
for more Americans if you allow the 
free market to work better. 

The regulations that are being proposed 
by the Department of Labor, in 
my view, meet that criteria. They provide 
a change in the situation that will 
allow the economy to be more responsive 
to today’s economic opportunities 
and challenges in a worldwide, border-
less economy. I believe they should be 
adopted, as proposed, without the encumbrance 
of the Harkin amendment. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Massachusetts. 

Mr. KENNEDY. Madam President, I 
welcome the opportunity to join with 
my friend and colleague, the Senator 
from Iowa, in urging the Senate to accept 
this amendment he has proposed 
on overtime. I want to take a moment 
or two this afternoon to review, very 
quickly, where we are in terms of what 
our workers in this country are facing 
at this time in terms of our economy. 

First of all, Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the excellent 
editorial entitled ‘‘Timeout on Overtime 
Rule’’ in the Los Angeles Times 
be printed in the RECORD at the conclusion 
of my remarks. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(See exhibit 1.) 

Mr. KENNEDY. I will mention, very 
quickly, some of the points that were 
made in this editorial, ‘‘Timeout on 
Overtime Rule.’’ This is what they 
mention: 

Unfortunately, the new Labor Department 
overtime rule intended to clear things up 
just makes them murkier. . . . Despite [Secretary] 
Chao’s assurances that she’s worked 
hard to ‘‘get it right,’’ the National Assn. of 
Police Organizations determined that ‘‘while 
many police are protected, others are not.’’ 

A former Department of Labor investigator 
last week told a House committee the 
ambiguous wording threatens [many] 
protection[s] now afforded to many workers—
including nursery school teachers, 
nurses, chefs, team leaders, outside sales 
people and financial service employees—who 
earn from $23,660 to $100,000 a year. 

It continues: ‘‘American workers 
have fueled recent productivity gains 
but failed to share in the newly created 
wealth because, as Alan Greenspan recently 
told the Senate, ‘virtually all of 
the gains in productivity ended up in 
rising profit’ ’’ suggesting that the investments 
are not going back to those 
in terms of the increasing productivity 
but are all going back into profits. 

And then it points out: 

A panic about their overtime is the last 
thing workers need. . . . 

As we know—and the figures point 
out very clearly—American workers 
work longer and harder than any other 
workers in the world. They average 
working longer than any other nation 

in the world—21/2 weeks longer in a 
year than workers in the United Kingdom; 
7 weeks longer in a year than 
workers in France; 4, 5 weeks longer 
every year than most of the industrialized 
countries in Western Europe. 
American workers today are working 
longer, and they are working harder. 
But what has happened is we have seen 
that 8.4 million Americans are out of 
work. We have seen the loss of jobs 
over the period of the recent years. We 
have seen the economic record of 2.4 
million more unemployed workers 
today than we had in 2001. So American 
workers are working longer, they are 
working harder, and we have seen a 
significant loss of jobs. 

I heard my friend and colleague from 
Utah refer to those who have gone back 
into the labor market. But as the Senator 
knows very well, many of those 
people are working part-time because 
they still can’t find full-time work. 
This is a reflection of the fact that we 
have seen American workers working 
longer and working harder. And there 
is also a loss of some 2 million jobs. 

What has happened to the wages of 
those workers? Look at the difference 
in the wages of those workers who were 
working in the year 2000 versus 2002. In 
the year 2000, they were averaging 
$43,848, and now they are averaging 
$42,408. We have seen a significant reduction—
some $1,400—in wages that 
have been lost during the period of the 
last 2 years for jobs that are already in 
existence. And this administration is 
trying to cut back even more. 

What is the administration’s problem 
with working families? They oppose an 
increase in the minimum wage. They 
oppose extending unemployment compensation. 
And now they are trying to 
cut back on the income of working 
families. 

Well, we hear: Look, we have created, 
under this administration, some new 
jobs. The interesting point is, the new 
jobs that have been created are averaging 
21 percent less in pay than the 
old jobs that were there. So we have 
seen a significant reduction in the pay 
that workers receive if they have been 
able to hold their job. If you have lost 
your job, and then you get a new job, it 
is paying 21 percent less than what it 
was paying in the year 2001, and still 
the administration wants to reduce 
those figures even more for hard-working 
Americans who are trying to make 
it. 

Now, what has happened? What are 
these families doing? These families 
who were making $44,000, and maybe 
now they are coming back into the 
market and making 21 percent less? 
Let’s look at the kind of burden those 
families are under. Let’s look, for example, 
at what has happened in terms 
of if those families are sending one of 
their children to college. We find out if 
they are sending their children to a 4-
year college, the average increase in 
college tuition has increased 26 percent 
since 2001. Virtually nothing has been 
done by the Bush administration to try 
to get a handle on that. 

There are things that can be done. 
We have had good ideas and good suggestions 
of trying to work with colleges, 
work with States, work with the 
Federal Government in trying to get a 
handle on the increased costs. We have 
families working harder, working 
longer, and making less, and finding 
out—when they are trying to put their 
children through college—college tuition, 
in the last 21/2 years, has gone up 
some 26 percent. They see they are 
making less money now. If they have 
their old job or even if they have a new 
job, they are finding out, if their children 
are going to college, what is happening 
at a 4-year public school. 

Let’s look at what has happened in 
terms of their health care premiums. 
The costs are virtually out of control. 
This chart shows their premium increase 
versus the CPI. The CPI might 
represent what some of these workers 
are getting in their increased wages in 
terms of their employers, but look 
what has happened to the costs that 
are out of control. Over the period of 
the last 41/2 years, the increase in 
health care costs have gone up 43 percent. 
How are the average working 
families in this country able to make 
it? Their pay is going down. There are 
new jobs paying less. Tuitions are 
going up. Health care is going up. We 
have a proposal on the floor of the Senate. 
That is not bad enough, if they 
work even harder and longer, we are 
going to cut back on that. 

You can take the same with regard 
to the issue of prescription drugs. I see 
my friend from Oregon in the Chamber, 
Senator RON WYDEN, who has done so 
much in the area of prescription drugs 
and trying to get a handle on the costs 
of prescription drugs. He is a real leader 
in the Senate on this issue. 

If you look at what families are paying 
in increased costs for prescription 
drugs, those costs are virtually out of 
control. 

That is why those of us on this side 
of the aisle have asked: What in the 
world does this administration have 
against working families? Why now, 
the first time in more than 60 years, 
are you going to undermine or assault 
or attack overtime pay for workers? 
Why? It just isn’t right and it just isn’t 
fair. 

Look at what has happened in the recovery 
we have had, briefly, in the last 
several months. Let’s look at how that 
recovery has affected workers and how 
it has affected the profits for companies. 
Here we have a chart that shows 
the difference between the recovery in 
the early 1990s and today’s recovery. 
This chart reflects what the difference 
is between workers wages and corporate 
profit. 

In the early 1990s, when you had a recovery 
in the 1990s, you found out that 
the workers participated in expansion 
of wages 87 percent and the corporate 
profits went up 13 percent. Here it is 
today. With today’s recovery, it is 60 
percent goes to corporate profits and 40 
percent to wages. And company after 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4749 

company, industry after industry is 
trying to cut that back in terms of 
wages. 

Just look at some of the industries, 
what they requested in terms of this 
administration. I will illustrate with 
the restaurant association, but the list 
goes on. 

The National Restaurant Association 
requests that DOL include chefs under 
creative professional categories as well 
as the learned professional category. 

Then from the Federal Register, 
April 23: The Department concludes 
that to the extent a chef has a primary 
duty of work, requiring invention, 
imagination, originality, or talent— 
imagine telling a chef that he didn’t 
have those, how long would he work in 
a restaurant; of course, it means all 
the chefs—such chef may be considered 
an exempt creative professional. 

There is the request of the National 
Restaurant Association. There is the 
result. 

Take the insurance companies. Here 
is their request, the National Association 
of Mutual Insurance Companies’ 
letter to the Department of Labor: The 
National Association of Mutual Insurance 
Companies supports the section of 
the proposed regulations that provides 
that claims adjusters, including those 
working for insurance companies, satisfy 
the fair labor administrative exemption. 
Therefore, will not qualify for 
overtime. 

From the Federal Register just 10 
days ago: Insurance claim adjusters 
generally meet the duty requirements 
for the administrative exemption. 

There is the request of the special interest; 
there is the result. I could take 
the rest of the afternoon. You could go 
industry by industry. We are talking 
about modernization, to make these 
regulations more understandable. This 
is what it is all about. It is the bottom 
line. The bottom line of those industries, 
taking it out of the pockets of 
the men and women who are working 
hard, working longer, as the first chart 
showed, more than any other industrial 
nation in the world, having a hard time 
making ends meet, paying for the education 
of the kids, affording the health 
care, paying for the prescription drugs. 
That is what this is all about. 

Here are the various groups that are 
affected: nurses, nursery school teachers. 
Imagine this, nursery school teachers. 
I looked through the regulations. 
Imagine denying nursery school teachers. 
When we understand the importance, 
anyone who has had the opportunity 
to read ‘‘From Neurons to 
Neighborhoods,’’ Jack Shonkoff’s brilliant 
book that summarized three 
Academy of Sciences studies that 
showed that the intervention in the 
early years make the greatest difference 
in terms of children. 

We are concerned about education 
and we are going to make sure those 
nursery school teachers, even if they 
are qualified, even if they deserve it, no 
way, are they going to be excluded. The 
list goes on. The list goes on. 

Finally, I want to mention this chart 
that shows what happens when you either 
have protections for overtime or 
you don’t have protections. Protections 
meaning if you are required, you 
pay time and a half versus you don’t 
pay time and a half, what is going to be 
the impact on workers. 

Workers ought to listen to this. 
Workers ought to take a look at this 
chart. If you have overtime protection 
and you work more than 40 hours a 
week, only 19 percent of the workers 
are going to be required to work overtime. 
But if you don’t, if the employer 
doesn’t have to pay the overtime, it 
goes up to 44 percent, more than double. 
Workers beware. That is how you 
are going to end up. You are going to 
be required to work much more than 
the 40-hour workweek and you are not 
going to get compensated for it. 

And it isn’t only the 40-hour workweek. 
If you have a 50-hour week, you 
are three times as likely to work 
longer than if you have the coverage 
under overtime. 

This can be summarized very easily 
as a continuation of this administration’s 
war on working families. Working 
families are not asking for much. 
They want a decent job with decent 
pay and decent opportunities for the 
future. They have a sense of pride, and 
they want to do a good job in the job 
they are doing. And they want to work. 
We are stacking it against them. We 
are saying we will not increase the 
minimum wage, even though it is 7 
years since the last time we saw an increase 
and even though its purchasing 
power is at an all-time low and that it 
affects 7 million Americans, fellow citizens 
who work hard, play by the rules, 
primarily janitors, teachers assistants, 
people who work in nursing homes. 
Those are the recipients of the minimum 
wage. And it is mostly women. 
This overtime issue is a women’s issue. 
This overtime issue is a women’s issue 
because we have seen the expansion 
and the growth of hours that women 
are putting in in the workplace. 

This administration has been opposed 
to an increase in the minimum wage, 
opposed to unemployment compensation, 
and now opposed to overtime. It 
is basically wrong. It is unfair. 

This Harkin amendment addresses 
the unfairness. Americans understand 
fairness and unfairness. This underlying 
proposal of the administration is 
unfair. 

I ask unanimous consent to print in 
the RECORD an excellent summary by 
Eileen Appelbaum from Rutgers University 
that talks about reinvestment 
in the United States as a share of corporate 
profits has hit a postwar low. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

It is not a lack of profits that has kept 

U.S. corporations from investing. As Figure 
3 shows, the after-tax capital share is at its 
highest level in the post-War period. Indeed, 
the Wall Street Journal reports that 60 percent 
of U.S. companies and 70 percent of foreign-
owned companies in the U.S. didn’t pay 
ANY federal taxes for the years 1996 to 2000 
(Wall Street Journal, April 6, 2004, p.1). Nevertheless 
profit reinvested in the U.S. as a 
share of corporate profits has hit a post-War 
low. 

In 2003, corporate taxes fell to just 7.4 percent 
of federal tax receipts—its second lowest 
share since 1934. Further tax cuts for corporations 
are not likely to spur investment 
or create jobs. The problem is the overhang 
from overinvestment in IT and telecommunications 
during the latter half of the 1990s and 
the on-going restructuring of companies. 
This, combined with a lack of attention to 
strengthening manufacturing where nearly 
40 percent of investment takes place, suggests 
that low rates of business investment 
are likely to be a drag on the economy and 
private sector job creation for several more 
years. 

Investment has begun to rise over the last 
two quarters, but the growth in corporate 
profitability has been even more impressive. 
If companies continue to grab productivity 
gains and a larger slice of the economic pie 
for themselves, and profits continue to 
squeeze wages, consumption growth will not 
be able to continue to sustain the economy. 
Growth in investment is unlikely to be able 
to overcome the drag on the economy from 
giving workers a smaller slice of the economic 
pie. 

Mr. KENNEDY. Make no mistake 
about it. What this is about is increasing 
the profits. Do we think those profits 
are going to be reinvested in the 
worker? There is no indication that 
they will be. This is about the bottom 
line. 

The question is, Whose side are you 
on? Are you on the side of working 
families trying to make it in America 
or are you on the side of the companies 
trying to increase the bottom line? 
That is what the issue is. 

I applaud the Senator from Iowa and 
hope the Senate will support that effort. 


EXHIBIT 1 
[From the Los Angeles Times Editorial, May 
3, 2004] 
TIMEOUT ON OVERTIME RULE 

Overtime pay makes ends meet for many 

U.S. workers. But the federal regulations 
that determine who merits overtime are so 
complex that employers and employees end 
up in court way too often, Unfortunately, 
the new Labor Department overtime rule intended 
to clear things up just makes them 
murkier. A timeout is called for, if just to 
figure out who the winners and losers really 
are. 
An earlier version of the new rule drew 
80,000 comments from befuddled workers and 
employers alike. The final rule published in 
April—though a clear improvement—has provoked 
outright argument about what some 
of its provisions really mean. 

Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao maintains 
that, when the rule takes effect in four 
months, it will guarantee overtime protection 
to workers earning less than $23,660 a 
year and strengthen overtime rights for 6.7 
million other American workers, including 

1.3 million low-wage, white-collar workers 
who previously didn’t qualify. Workers, 
though, aren’t taking Chao’s word for it. 
Despite Chao’s assurances that she’s 
worked hard to ‘‘get it right,’’ the National 
Assn. of Police Organizations determined 
that ‘‘while many police are protected, others 
are not.’’ 

A former Department of Labor investigator 
last week told a House committee that 


S4750 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

ambiguous wording threatens protection now 
afforded too many workers—including nursery 
school teachers, nurses, chefs, team leaders, 
outside sales people and financial service 
employees—who earn from $23,660 to $100,000 
a year. 

American workers have fueled recent productivity 
gains but failed to share in the 
newly created wealth because, as Alan 
Greenspan recently told the Senate, ‘‘virtually 
all of the gains in productivity ended 
up in rising profit.’’ 

The economy isn’t spinning off jobs quickly 
enough to get the unemployed back to 
work, and young workers are frustrated by a 
minimum wage that hasn’t budged since 
1997. A panic about their overtime is the last 
thing workers need, even though the regulations 
surely do need some straightening out. 

Rather than take Chao’s word, Congress 
should order the Labor Department to delay 
implementation of the complex overtime 
regulations until everyone knows what really 
will happen to workers’ paychecks. Get a 
think tank on the job. 

Replacing one flawed set of regulations 
with another won’t diminish lawsuits and 
may allow unscrupulous employers to take 
advantage of more workers. As Chao has 
noted, key portions of the rule hadn’t been 
changed in more than 50 years. A few more 
weeks isn’t going to matter. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alabama. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I 
wish to take a few minutes to talk 
about the overtime rules. I believe they 
are a marvelous step in the right direction. 
After 40 to 50 years of inaction 
and lack of review, I believe we are in 
a position to make some changes 
today. Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao 
is one of the finest members of this administration. 
She is a determined public 
servant. She advertised those 
changes. She solicited information 
from various groups and individuals 
and got 70,000 responses. They evaluated 
those responses and made the proposed 
rule changes that are before us. I 
think it is clearly a step in the right 
direction and will add to the number of 
people who are covered. The final rule 
updating part 541 of the Fair Labor 
Standards Act regulation is important. 

When these rules were established, 
we used words and terms that don’t 
really exist today. They used terms 
like ‘‘gang leader.’’ That has quite a 
different tone today than it did when 
that rule was set up. There was also 
‘‘linotype operator’’ and overtime was 
guaranteed only for persons who made 
less than $8,060 a year. So this rule 
change improves the regulations in 
quite a significant way. 

I had the personal experience of 
working as a lawyer and representing 
two individuals who had problems with 
overtime. I represented the first individual 
against a company. I had not 
studied the law that much, but I had 
been a Federal prosecutor and I knew 
the people. One was a friend from my 
high school days and he operated heavy 
equipment. He said: Jeff, I think I have 
been entitled to overtime. I worked 
extra hours. When the weather was 
good, we worked extra hours. 

They saw him as a contractor and he 
saw himself as an employee. I began to 
look at the law and I thought he was 

right. We filed a lawsuit and the company 
knuckled under and paid him. I 
took a fee out of it, and I am sure the 
company paid their lawyers a fee for 
representing them. A pretty significant 
chunk of the man’s overtime had to be 
paid on litigation fees. 

I represented an administrative assistant. 
The group she worked for had 
meetings at night. She would be required 
to go take notes and keep 
records, but they didn’t pay her overtime. 
We filed an action on that and, 
eventually, they agreed to pay her. Interestingly, 
that lady worked for a 
union. So the union wasn’t paying one 
of its own employees overtime as they 
were required. 

What we need is more clarity in this 
situation. We need a legal system that 
everybody can understand. When you 
know who is covered, then people can 
demand their overtime and they will 
get it. It is my experience that you will 
not have quite as many situations 
where people blatantly violate the law 
if they know what the law is. If the law 
is confusing, they will play in the gray 
areas and take advantage of people. If 
it is clear, people will tend to follow 
it—most employers will. I think that is 
what we are looking at here. 

The Department of Labor did not prematurely 
propose this rule. It was after 
a great deal of work and effort and listening 
and evaluation and changing 
and updating and altering the proposal. 
I think they have done a terrific job. It 
meets the realistic needs of the modern 
workplace so much better than this 50-
year-old rule that has not been 
changed since the beginning. 

I have been disappointed that our 
friends in the labor movement leadership 
have sought to utilize this change 
as an opportunity to attempt to scare 
working Americans and cause them to 
believe they are somehow being taken 
advantage of in this process. That is 
not so. I was disappointed to learn that 
the AFL–CIO prepared ads attacking 
the rule, before it was even published. 
That is not the right way to do things. 
We all ought to be a part of the process. 
If you have a specific example of 
something that is wrong, bring it up 
with the Secretary of Labor, as many 
did, and as labor groups did, and they 
will evaluate it and make the changes 
that work. 

This is an attempt—and a successful 
attempt—to make the rules simpler, 
fairer, and clearer. We have to do better 
than the current law. Under this 
final rule—and this is so significant— 
workers making $23,660 or less per year 
are absolutely guaranteed overtime. In 
the past, a worker making $14,000 annually 
could be classified as a manager 
and be denied overtime. 

Under the new rules, that worker and 

6.7 million others will be guaranteed 
overtime protection regardless of 
whether you call them a manager, a 
boss, or whatever you want to call 
them. If they make less than that, they 
are classified as eligible and have to be 
paid overtime if they work more than 
the 40 hours per week. This will cover 
the person at the print shop, the fast 
food place, and the laundry. Maybe 
they have been classified as a manager 
because they do the business and manage 
some. Under this, if they are paid 
less than $23,660, automatically they 
will be covered. That is 6.7 million 
workers who are going to be guaranteed 
overtime protection. 

This is not something that is trying 
to harm the worker. I know my friend, 
Senator KENNEDY, is quite an advocate. 
But I have to tell you, I don’t appreciate 
him saying that this rule change 
is a war on American workers. What 
kind of rhetoric is that? What kind of 
partisanship is that? What kind of 
collegiality and respect for the process 
is that? This is a good series of rules, 
not a war on the American worker. 

He talks about college tuition, health 
care, prescription drugs, and all these 
issues he wants to talk about but not 
specifically what is wrong about this 
regulation. There is not anything 
wrong with it. It is a step forward. It is 
good for American workers and we 
need to do that. 

I know he talked about a lot of 
things. One thing he did not suggest 
was that if we got a handle on the number 
of illegal workers in this country, 
there would be more jobs for American 
workers? We will get more people at 
that $18, $20, $25 range. That is where 
we want people to work at. He didn’t 
talk about that. 

There are lots of things we can do to 
improve the life of the working American 
man and women. One of them is to 
update the overtime rules. I believe 
this has been done openly and publicly 
by a Secretary of Labor who is a lady 
of integrity and great ability, who listened 
to the complaints and ideas and 
suggestions, and she has made 
progress. 

For example, I believe Senator HARKIN 
mentioned law enforcement officers. 
The largest law enforcement 
group in America, a workers group, a 
labor group, the Fraternal Order of Police, 
has clearly supported this rule 
change. They participated in the process 
and they made their suggestions. 
They were happy when it was over. 
This is what the president of the Fraternal 
Order of Police, Chuck Canterbury, 
said when the Department of 
Labor issued the final regulation. He 
said it was ‘‘an unprecedented victory 
for police officers and their families.’’ 
These are America’s first responders, 
the police, firemen, and EMTs. 

He goes on to say that ‘‘the Fraternal 
Order of Police is extremely grateful for the 
work of the Secretary of Labor, Elaine Chao, 
and Wage and Hour Administrator, Tammie 
McCutchen, to take into consideration and 
incorporate the views of the FOP in developing 
their final regulations.’’ 

He goes on in great praise of them. It 
has also been repeated on the floor earlier 
today that somehow veterans are 
unhappy with this bill and it is going 
to hurt veterans. 

But I have a letter from the Veterans 
of Foreign Wars. They are one of the 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4751 

largest veterans groups. They say in a 
letter to Secretary Chao on April 22: 

The Veterans of Foreign Wars of the 
United States appreciates your soliciting our 
comments and recommendations on the revision 
of the Fair Labor Standards Act to 
strengthen and clarify 

That is how he referred to it, 
‘‘strengthen and clarify’’— 
the overtime protection provisions; particularly 
provision addressing veterans and the 
training they received while serving in the 
Armed Forces. Much confusion and erroneous 
misinformation was disseminated. 

Boy, that is true. There has been so 
much misinformation. 

Mr. KENNEDY. Will the Senator 
yield on that point? 

Mr. SESSIONS. Yes, for a question, 
without losing my right to the floor. 

Mr. KENNEDY. I think the Senator 
is correct in the fact that the earlier 
provisions certainly apply to the training 
veterans received. I think my own 
reading of this is that they may very 
well apply to this group of veterans 
who have specialized training. Why 
didn’t the administration add a line 
saying that anyone who received training 
in the Armed Forces would not be 
covered? That would have resolved the 
issue. If the Senator wanted to add 
that as an amendment, I would encourage 
the Senator from Iowa to accept 
that. 

Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Senator 
from Massachusetts for his comments. 
As a lawyer—and I know Senator KENNEDY 
is a lawyer—these things get 
pretty complicated. Sometimes making 
blanket rules like that can create 
unfairness in the system. 

Let me go on and continue with what 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars said on 
April 22 about this legislation: 

Much confusion and erroneous information 
was disseminated with respect to how the 
proposed regulations could adversely affect 
veterans. You and the staff of the Veterans 
Employment and Training Service and the 
Wage and Hour Division’s willingness to engage 
the VFW and other Veterans Service 
Organizations in constructive dialog resulted 
in the removal of language pertaining to 
‘‘training in the Armed Forces,’’ thus ensuring 
veterans would not be denied overtime as 
a result of such training. Again, the VFW appreciates 
your recognition of those who 
serve our Nation in war and peace. 

The Disabled American Veterans, a 
good, strong group that does a lot of 
good work here: 

Dear Secretary Chao: On behalf of the 1.2 
million members of the Disabled American 
Veterans, I would like to express our gratitude 
for keeping us and other veterans’ service 
organizations informed throughout the 
revision of rules governing overtime eligibility 
for workers under the Fair Labor 
Standards Act. We also commend your efforts 
to protect veterans by ensuring that a 
worker’s status as a veteran cannot be used 
as a basis for exemption from overtime pay. 

And from the American Legion—I 
suppose they know what is good for 
veterans. I certainly know they advocate 
for them on a daily basis. National 
Commander John Brieden III wrote to 
Secretary Chao, April 26, last week: 

I am writing in support of the recently released 
regulatory changes to the Fair Labor 

Standards Act. The American Legion has a 
long history of advocating in support of veterans 
employment and training entitlements, 
and we are pleased with the Department 
of Labor’s part 541 final regulations 
that seek to clarify overtime pay eligibility 
rules. 

They are happy with them. 

He goes on to write, recent assertions that 
the proposed regulatory changes target veterans 
who rely on overtime pay caused 
undue concern for those proud veterans who 
have successfully transitioned into the civilian 
workforce. 

Who has been telling them all this 
misinformation? They are all saying 
that. How are they being told this? I 
am afraid the truth is, we are in a political 
season, and the Secretary of 
Labor stepped up to the plate to make 
some changes that needed to be made. 
They have not been changed in 50 
years, and those who have a political 
agenda who want to try to embarrass 
President Bush, frankly, because Secretary 
Chao is a Cabinet Secretary in 
his administration are going to blame 
him for adversely harming workers, 
and it is not right. Listen to the people 
who were there: 

Recent assertions that the proposed regulatory 
changes target veterans who rely on 
overtime pay caused undue concern for those 
proud veterans who have successfully 
transitioned into the civilian workforce. The 
removal of language referencing training in 
the Armed Forces will ensure that no worker 
will be unjustly penalized for their veteran 
status as a result of these regulatory 
changes. At a time in our history when 
American service members are answering 
the Nation’s call— 

Indeed they certainly are— 
to arms in more than 130 countries worldwide, 
this country must ensure that all military 
and veterans entitlements are preserved 
rather than stripped away. 

The American Legion supports the Department 
of Labor’s efforts to clarify eligibility 
for overtime pay, and we applaud you, Madame 
Secretary, for ensuring that the employment 
rights of America’s veterans are 
protected. 

It is time for us to deal with this situation. 
These rules are better. A lot of 
people who have been called managers, 
who are making $18,000, $19,000, $20,000, 
$21,000, $22,000 a year and are being denied 
overtime because their employers 
crafted a job description that made 
them a manager, will be guaranteed 
overtime. If you make below $23,660, 
you are guaranteed overtime. If you 
make over $100,000, you are not. But for 
the others this will be guaranteed. 

This is a step forward for clarity. It 
is going to reduce litigation. It is going 
to reduce class action lawsuits. It is 
going to reduce the excessive cost that 
comes from those lawsuits, and it will 
make lives better for American workers. 
That is our only goal. If I thought 
it harmed our American workers, I 
would not support it. 

I believe the Secretary of Labor is on 
the right track. I ask our colleagues to 
oppose the Harkin amendment. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Mississippi. 

Mr. LOTT. Madam President, I wish 
to respond this afternoon to some of 
the statements that have been said, 
and also to rise in opposition to the 
Harkin amendment. 

First, I wish to join in what the Senator 
from Alabama was saying about 
the outstanding leadership of our Secretary 
of Labor Elaine Chao. If there 
has ever been an American success 
story, she is it. She is a minority 
woman who has been in several very 
critical leadership positions, has always 
done a wonderful job, and she is 
showing real courage as Secretary of 
Labor. Anybody who would suggest she 
would be advocating positions or rules 
that would be antiwomen, I don’t think 
there is any possibility that would be 
something she would do. I have a 
knowledge of her and a faith in the 
leadership she is providing. 

She is trying to change rules that 
have not been touched in 50 years. 
Whatever they were 50 years ago, 40 
years ago, 30 years ago, one would 
think they probably need some reconsideration 
and updating. That is what 
she is trying to do. 

As far as being concerned about the 
low income and entry level of working 
Americans, I feel a real concern for 
that. My dad was a shipyard worker, a 
pipefitter, a union member. My mother 
taught school. She subsequently kept 
books because she could not make 
enough money teaching school. My son 
employs a lot of entry level, low-income, 
unwed mothers, and he worries 
about his need for insurance coverage. 

I do not step aside for anybody as far 
as coming from a low-income, middle-
income background. I want to make 
sure we do right by the low-income 
people and the entry level people. 

In that connection, in talking about 
the economy and what is happening, I 
remind all Americans and my colleagues 
the economy is not perfect. 
The economy would never be as good as 
we would like for it to be. We would 
like it to be growing at 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 percent 
GDP and hope we can make that 
happen. I believe we in America can always 
make the pie bigger. We do not 
have to make the slices smaller. We 
can challenge every American to think 
about what the opportunities are that 
are being offered and try to take a part 
of the American dream. And we are 
moving in that direction. Productivity 
is up. 

The point was made maybe it is 
going to the bottom line, the profit. I 
figured out if Litton Industries did not 
have a profit, my dad probably would 
not have had a job doing pipefitting in 
that shipyard. 

Jobless claims are down, housing 
starts are at an all-time high, and the 
American dream of owning your own 
home is doing fantastically. I met last 
week with homebuilders from my home 
State. They are doing great. They are 
providing good quality, affordable 
housing like never before, probably because 
interest rates are low, historically 
low, and have been so. The markets 
are up. 


S4752 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

When I hear, woe is me, the economy 
is not good—it is not perfect, but there 
are a lot of indicators going in the 
right direction. 

Then when I hear our workers in 
America work more than people in 
France, are we now trying to imitate 
France? Pretty soon they will be down 
to working maybe 25 hours a week, and 
they have huge economic problems because 
they have not been able to bring 
themselves to address the difficulties 
they are getting into with all their 
pensions and all the stuff they are committed 
to they are not going to be able 
to pay for. 

I do not want to follow France’s example, 
for Heaven’s sake. So what do 
we have in this particular instance? 
Again, we are trying to update the 
rules on overtime. It looks to me as 
though for low-income workers, they 
are going to be the beneficiaries. The 
Department estimates that few, if any, 
workers between $23,660 and $100,000 
would lose their overtime. As a matter 
of fact, 1.3 million salaried workers 
who earn less than $23,660 would get 
the overtime, and they would not need 
to go to court or to try to deal with the 
difficulties of the vague language. 
They are going to clarify when these 
workers would be eligible for overtime. 

Certainly, people who are making 
$23,000 or $24,000 ought to get overtime 
when they work extra hours. I think we 
ought to be commending the Secretary 
of Labor. She listened to us. She heard 
our complaints. Where there were 
weaknesses that were pointed out, they 
went back and tried to address those. 
These are not the same rules we were 
debating a year ago. They went back 
and raised the level that would be applied. 
The salaried level was $65,000. In 
the final version of rules, it is up to 
$100,000. 

There are new provisions in the rules 
that specify certain classes of employees 
also, such as police officers and 
firefighters, as automatically eligible 
for overtime pay. Do we not want to 
make that clear? Do we not want to 
specify that firefighters and police officers 
would be entitled to get overtime 
pay? 

It also declares that licensed practical 
nurses and certain veterans would 
be eligible for overtime pay. So there is 
a clarification with regard to the 
nurses. When one looks at what has 
happened, what they are trying to accomplish 
is to bring the rules up to 
date with the realities of employment 
today, and this is the first time we 
have done it in 50 years. As a matter of 
fact, low-income workers have certainty 
that they are going to get overtime. 
Specific groups such as firefighters, 
policemen, veterans, and licensed 
practical nurses will be guaranteed 
that they will get this overtime 
pay. 

Now there are certain categories of 
people I am sure are defined in these 
rules who are executive or administrative 
in position. They may make over 
$100,000, $120,000, or $130,000 a year. 

They may have to work overtime. How 
many people in our offices work overtime? 
How many overtime hours do we 
work, 50, 60, 70, 80? We understand 
when we run for the Senate that we are 
not going to get overtime pay. I am not 
advocating that. That is my point. I do 
not expect it, and I work 70, 80 hours a 
week because of the opportunities, the 
way of honor and because of the understanding 
of what we would be paid. 

I think these rules are the right 
thing to do. There is clarity about the 
fact that more people would be covered. 
I do not know how many people 
might actually have some risk of not 
getting overtime, but it would be in 
the higher brackets. The number is 
probably 107,000 workers earning more 
than this $100,000 might lose their overtime 
pay. 

This effort has shifted the emphasis 
to the low-income people who have not 
been certain that they could get overtime. 
We should be commending the 
Secretary of Labor, not trying to pass 
the Harkin amendment that would 
block these changes. 

I fear once again what we have is 
people wanting more. They are not satisfied 
that this is good enough. Good, 
maybe, yes, that maybe it is fine if it 
applies to first responders, nurses, blue 
collar workers, cooks, paralegals, public 
service inspectors, union contracts, 
and veterans. That is all good, but we 
want more. We are going to defeat the 
good in pursuit of the perfect. 

It will not happen. 

I urge my colleagues to vote against 
this Harkin amendment. Let us put 
these rules in place. It will not be the 
last pass at this. We are going to find 
that there are some weaknesses, or we 
should have maybe considered another 
group. The rules will be changed again. 

I had to take a little time to talk 
about the facts with regard to Secretary 
of Labor Elaine Chao, to talk 
about the economy and talk about how 
these rules have been modified. They 
have moved in the right direction, and 
we should allow them to go into place 
and continue to work to make sure 
they are applied properly. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CORNYN). 
The Senator from Montana. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, the Senator 
from Maine and the Senator from 
Oregon would each like to offer an 
amendment. I would like to get them 
in a queue for consideration after the 
Harkin amendment. I have cleared this 
with the majority manager. 

I ask unanimous consent that the 
pending Harkin amendment be temporarily 
laid aside so that Senator COLLINS 
may offer an amendment; that 
after she has been able to do so and 
speak to her amendment the Collins 
amendment be temporarily laid aside, 
and that Senator WYDEN be recognized 
to offer his amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from Maine. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3108 

Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I send 
an amendment to the desk and ask for 
its immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Maine [Ms. COLLINS] proposes 
an amendment numbered 3108. 

Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the reading of 
the amendment be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

(Purpose: To provide for a manufacturer’s 

jobs credit, and for other purposes) 
On page 139, between lines 13 and 14, insert 
the following: 

SEC. ll. MANUFACTURER’S JOBS CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subpart D of part IV of 
subchapter A of chapter 1 (relating to business-
related credits), as amended by this 
Act, is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 45S. MANUFACTURER’S JOBS CREDIT. 

‘‘(a) GENERAL RULE.—For purposes of section 
38, in the case of an eligible taxpayer, 
the manufacturer’s jobs credit determined 
under this section is an amount equal to the 
lesser of the following: 

‘‘(1) The excess of the W–2 wages paid by 
the taxpayer during the taxable year over 
the W–2 wages paid by the taxpayer during 
the preceding taxable year. 

‘‘(2) The W–2 wages paid by the taxpayer 
during the taxable year to any employee who 
is an eligible TAA recipient (as defined in 
section 35(c)(2)) for any month during such 
taxable year. 

‘‘(3) 22.4 percent of the W–2 wages paid by 
the taxpayer during the taxable year. 

‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—The amount of credit determined 
under subsection (a) shall be reduced 
by an amount which bears the same 
ratio to the amount of the credit (determined 
without regard to this subsection) 
as— 

‘‘(1) the excess of the W–2 wages paid by 
the taxpayer to employees outside the 
United States during the taxable year over 
such wages paid during the most recent taxable 
year ending before the date of the enactment 
of this section, bears to 

‘‘(2) the excess of the W–2 wages paid by 
the taxpayer to employees within the United 
States during the taxable year over such 
wages paid during such most recent taxable 
year. 

‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE TAXPAYER.—For purposes of 
this section, the term ‘eligible taxpayer’ 
means any taxpayer— 

‘‘(1) which has domestic production gross 
receipts for the taxable year and the preceding 
taxable year, and 

‘‘(2) which is not treated at any time during 
the taxable year as an inverted domestic 
corporation under section 7874. 

‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section, 
W–2 wages and domestic production 
gross receipts shall be determined in the 
same manner as under section 199. 

‘‘(e) CERTAIN RULES MADE APPLICABLE.— 
For purposes of this section, rules similar to 
the rules of section 52 shall apply. 

‘‘(f) TERMINATION.—This section shall not 
apply to any taxable year beginning after 
December 31, 2005.’’. 

(b) CREDIT TO BE PART OF GENERAL BUSINESS 
CREDIT.—Section 38(b) (relating to current 
year business credit), as amended by 
this Act, is amended by striking ‘‘plus’’ at 
the end of paragraph (29), by striking the period 
at the end of paragraph (30) and inserting 
‘‘, plus’’, and by adding at the end the 
following: 

May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4753 

‘‘(31) the manufacturer’s jobs credit determined 
under section 45S.’’. 

(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for subpart D of part IV of sub-
chapter A of chapter 1, as amended by this 
Act, is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Sec. 45S. Manufacturer’s jobs credit.’’. 

(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2003. 
On page 335, line 8, strike ‘‘December 31, 
2004,’’ and insert ‘‘the date of the enactment 
of this Act’’. 

Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, before I 
turn to the subject matter of the 
amendment which I have just submitted, 
I rise to take a moment to 
thank my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle for their courtesy, and in particular 
to thank the chairman and the 
ranking member of the Finance Committee 
and their staffs for their assistance 
in advancing this important legislation 
and in helping to bring this 
amendment to the Senate floor. 

Over the past year, the American 
economy has emerged from a period of 
recession and slow growth into a period 
of economic recovery. The last half of 
2003 saw the strongest growth in two 
decades and the growth continues to be 
strong, 4.2 percent in the first quarter 
of this year, a clear sign of a healthy 
and sustainable economic rebound. 

There are hopeful signs on the job 
front, too. Last month, 308,000 new jobs 
were added to our Nation’s payrolls. 
This is very good news, but the recovery 
has not affected all sectors equally. 
One sector in particular, manufacturing, 
is struggling to cope with the 
long-term decline that has cost so 
many workers their jobs. 

Job losses in the manufacturing sector 
did not begin with the recent recession, 
nor with this administration. It is 
not a Democratic issue or a Republican 
issue. In each decade since World War 
II, employment in the manufacturing 
sector has declined as a share of total 
employment. In absolute terms, the 
number of American manufacturing 
jobs has fallen each year since the end 
of 1997. In fact, if one examines the 
past 84 months since March of 1997, the 
number of manufacturing jobs has declined 
each and every month except 7. 

No State has been harder hit by the 
loss of manufacturing jobs than my 
home State of Maine. According to a 
study by the National Association of 
Manufacturers, on a percentage basis 
Maine has lost more manufacturing 
jobs than any State in the Nation. We 
have lost nearly 18,000 jobs during that 
period, good jobs that once provided 
lifelong employment to Mainers living 
in communities such as Millinocket, 
Brewer, Wilton, Waterville, Fort Kent, 
Dexter, Westbrook, and Sanford. 

Many people are asking: Why are so 
many manufacturing jobs in this country 
disappearing? 

According to a recent study conducted 
by the National Association of 
Manufacturers, one answer is the disparity 
in manufacturing costs in our 
country versus other countries. In fact, 

compared to other countries, it costs 
an average of 22 percent more to manufacture 
goods in the United States. 

While it would surprise no one that 

U.S. manufacturers face a higher cost 
of doing business compared to manufacturers 
in countries such as China or 
Mexico, it would be a mistake to assume 
wage rates alone explain this difference. 
They do not. In fact, the productivity 
of the American worker is 
unrivaled, allowing American workers 
to receive more value in terms of wages 
for the goods they produce. As the 
NAM study states, if wages were the 
only factor, then: 
U.S. manufacturers would be much more 
dominant . . . in the global markets than 
the current trade situation suggests. 
It is other structural costs such as 
the high corporate tax rate we impose 
on manufacturers that make it much 
more expensive to manufacture goods 
here in the United States relative to 
the costs elsewhere. Indeed, the NAM 
study shows it is significantly cheaper 
to produce goods even in high-wage industrialized 
nations such as Japan and 
France. This fact illustrates the critical 
impact these high structural costs 
have on manufacturers in our country. 

In essence, these costs have the same 
effect as imposing a 22-percent additional 
tax on making goods here, rather 
than overseas. To compete, American 
manufacturers must somehow do 
more with less, move operations overseas, 
or get out of manufacturing altogether. 
None of those is a good solution. 
The result is fewer jobs, a weaker 
economy, and a manufacturing sector 
in crisis. 

Earlier this session I introduced legislation 
known as the Growing Our 
Manufacturing Employment Act. This 
legislation provides a 9-percent deduction 
for manufacturing income, and 
contains additional provisions benefiting 
the forest products industry, an 
industry critical to manufacturers and 
jobs, good jobs in my home State. I am 
very pleased the underlying bill we are 
considering, the JOBS Act, has already 
been amended to accelerate the deduction 
for manufacturing income and it 
contains these important forestry provisions. 
But I believe we need to go further 
to address the loss of these vital 
manufacturing jobs. For that reason, I 
am offering the final provisions of the 
Growing Our Manufacturing Jobs Act 
as an amendment to this bill. My 
amendment is aimed at reinvigorating 
the manufacturing sector, boosting the 
level of domestic manufacturing, and 
preventing the further loss of these important 
jobs. 

My amendment would help to reduce 
the 22-percent cost differential American 
manufacturers face by providing a 
jobs tax credit to those manufacturers 
that increase their payrolls by hiring 
displaced workers who are receiving 
trade adjustment assistance. That 
would mean we would be providing an 
important incentive for manufacturers 
to rehire workers who have been laid 
off because of the impact of foreign 
competition. 

In Maine alone, nearly 60 manufacturers 
are currently TAA-certified, and 
more than 4,200 Maine workers have 
been deemed eligible for benefits under 
TAA since the start of 2002. The credit 
I have suggested would provide a powerful 
incentive to hire these workers 
and help them get back to work. 

This credit is very carefully targeted. 
For that reason, it carries a modest 
pricetag, which, thanks to the efforts 
of the Finance Committee, would be 
fully offset by other provisions included 
in the amendment. 

Finally, this amendment is designed 
to ensure only those companies that 
are helping to build America’s manufacturing 
base obtain the credit. It has 
both a carrot-and-a-stick approach. 
Companies that move jobs offshore will 
see their benefits reduced. Most important, 
companies that chose to reincorporate 
in offshore tax havens to avoid 
American taxes will not be eligible for 
this credit. 

I am hopeful that by working together 
on this proposal and the important 
provisions of the underlying bill, 
we can take the important steps that 
are needed to strengthen American 
manufacturers, to preserve our manufacturing 
capacity and, most of all, to 
help ensure hard-working Americans 
have the jobs they need and deserve. 

Let me once again thank the chairman 
and the ranking member for their 
ongoing efforts to advance this significant 
legislation. It has been a pleasure 
working with them to bring this proposal 
before the Senate. Few subjects 
the Senate will address this year are as 
important as creating and protecting 
good jobs, and few bills are as important 
to advancing that goal as the legislation 
before us today. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Oregon. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3109 
(Purpose: To provide trade adjustment assistance 
for service workers, and for other 
purposes) 

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I send an 
amendment to the desk on behalf of 
myself, Senator COLEMAN, Senator 
ROCKEFELLER, Senator BAUCUS, Senator 
DAYTON, Senator BROWNBACK, Senator 
DODD, and Senator SNOWE. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Oregon [Mr. WYDEN] for 
himself, Mr. COLEMAN, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, Mr. 
BAUCUS, Mr. DAYTON, Mr. BROWNBACK, Mr. 
DODD, and Ms. SNOWE, proposes an amendment 
numbered 3109. 

Mr. WYDEN. I ask unanimous consent 
the reading of the amendment be 
dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(The text of the amendment is printed 
in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Text of 
Amendments.’’) 

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I see the 
Senator from Montana on the floor, 
and the Senator from Massachusetts, 


S4754 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

both of whom have done so much for 
working families, as has the Senator 
from Maine. 

I bring this bipartisan amendment to 
the floor tonight because I think it illustrates 
a point Senator LOTT expressed 
earlier when he talked about 
updating our laws to make sure they 
are fair and practical for the times. 

The Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Act, which this amendment speaks to, 
has been a great asset to folks who 
have been laid off in the manufacturing 
sector. It was written more than three 
decades ago. Of course, that was the 
key sector in our economy and still is 
tremendously important today, but the 
fact is, the trade adjustment law today 
doesn’t apply to about four-fifths of 
our workers, the folks who have been 
laid off in the service sector and in the 
high-technology sector. So what we 
have is millions of unemployed workers 
in the service sector and in the 
high-tech sector who are walking on an 
economic tightrope every single day, 
balancing their food costs against their 
fuel costs, and their fuel costs against 
the skyrocketing medical bills, as Senator 
KENNEDY has pointed out. 

What this bipartisan amendment 
seeks to do is establish parity between 
folks in the service and technology sector 
and those in the manufacturing 
sector. So people who lose their jobs 
when their employer closes or lays 
them off because of import competition, 
people in the public and private 
sector who lose their jobs when their 
facility moves overseas, and secondary 
service workers who provide services to 
a primary firm where workers are eligible 
for trade adjustment and whose 
closure causes the layoff or closure at 
the secondary firm—when those people 
are in the high-tech and service sector 
of our economy, under our bipartisan 
amendment those people would be able 
to get benefits under the Trade Adjustment 
Assistance Act. 

In effect, this bipartisan coalition 
wants to persuade the Senate to support 
it. It is a proposition that no matter 
where an American works, if you 
lose your job because of imports, because 
your job moves offshore, you 
ought to be able to get retraining, income 
support, and help with your 
health insurance. 

Workers in the high-tech sector in 
my home State and across the country 
have taken a pounding in recent years. 
The American Electronics Association 
reported recently the tech sector lost 
775,000 jobs in 2001 to 2003 and another 

3.3 million jobs could be lost in the 
next decade. A Deloitte & Touche survey 
of telecommunication companies 
forecasts that well over 275,000 jobs, or 
5 percent of the total workforce, will 
move offshore in the next 4 years and 
more than half of all Fortune 500 companies 
are outsourcing software development 
or expanding their own operations 
overseas. 
The fact is when you have a software 
developer earning $6 an hour in Bangalore, 
India, and 10 times that amount 

in Beaverton, OR, every single day this 
critical sector of our economy—services 
and high technology—faces extraordinarily 
tough competition. When 
the starting salary of a software engineer 
in India is $5,000 and top level IT 
professionals earn $20,000 there, you 
can be sure the competition is intense. 
The question is, Who is going to stand 
up for these American workers in the 
high-technology and service sector 
that plays such a critical role in our 
economy? 

Some argue increased trade is an 
overall plus to the United States because 
it lowers prices for consumers. 
There is no doubt about that. That is 
why I have consistently supported 
trade. But there are negative effects on 
some of our workers. 

Exports of high-tech products from 
my home State jumped 18 percent from 
2001 to 2002, but in the technology industry 
jobs fell 11 percent. The Oregon 
Employment Department reports in 
the 2001 to 2003 period, 3,300 computer 
systems and design jobs were lost, 5,300 
professional and technical service jobs 
have been lost, and 1,400 architectural 
and engineering service jobs were lost. 
Many of these have been lost due to 
trade. 

I say it is time to update—as Senator 
LOTT has said—this critical law, the 
Trade Adjustment Assistance Act, so 
millions of workers in the high-tech 
and services sector are not left without 
a safety net. They have a safety net in 
the trade adjustment law if they are in 
the manufacturing sector, and that has 
been a great benefit to those families. 
But for four-fifths of our workers, 
those in the high-tech and service sector, 
that safety net has not been there. 
This bipartisan amendment will restore 
it. 

High-tech workers, as we know, have 
been the envy of the American workforce. 
Certainly during the dot-com 
boom of the late 1990s, they were responsible 
for a tremendous amount of 
economic growth. The ingenuity of 
these programmers, engineers, and designers 
helped drive our economy into 
the 21st century. The creativity of 
these workers generated an exceptional 
wave of economic prosperity. Trade 
agreements on services and intellectual 
property helped carry the fruit of 
these dedicated workers around the 
globe. 

Globalization of technology is unquestionably 
globalizing the technology 
workforce. Geography is increasingly 
less important in determining 
where a job can be done. 
Globalization of information technology 
hardware production from 1995 
to 2002 cut information technology 
hardware costs 10 to 30 percent, translating 
into higher productivity growth 
and adding hundreds of billions of dollars 
to the U.S. gross domestic product. 
Information technology became affordable 
to business sectors previously bypassed 
by the productivity boom, 
small-sized and mid-sized companies, 
health care and construction. 

But as information technology hardware 
prices decline, the importance of 
information technology services and 
software increased, to almost 70 percent 
of information technology spending 
in 2001. One economist found 
offshoring reportedly saved most information 
technology organizations on 
the order of from 15 to 25 percent in the 
first year. With growth in software and 
services outpacing hardware spending 
by almost two to one, the demand for 
cheaper information technology services 
has lent strength to this 
‘‘offshoring tsunami’’ and hammered 
many of our information technology 
workers in the process. 

Certainly no one could have anticipated 
the shocking speed or scale of 
globalization in information technology. 
The American Electronics Association 
2003 Cyberstates report found 
unemployment among computer programmers 
jumped from 4.5 percent in 
2001 to 6.2 percent in 2003; that high-
tech employment fell by 540,000 jobs to 
6 million in 2002; and that a further loss 
of 234,000 jobs was expected in 2003. 

Hardly a day goes by without a front-
page story in virtually hundreds of 
communities across the country about 
an American programmer on his or her 
way out having to train a foreign 
worker who will replace them. It is a 
very rich irony that some of the same 
workers who launched the technology 
revolution have in fact become its victims. 


The average American may think the 
Federal Government is helping technology 
and service workers displaced 
by trade, but it is not. That is because 
a law written in 1962, when so many of 
our workers were in the manufacturing 
sector, has not been updated. Now we 
have tens of thousands who have lost 
jobs in the services sector and the technology 
sector who are not eligible for 
the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act. 
The bipartisan amendment I offer 
today will open the Trade Adjustment 
Assistance Act door to these and other 
displaced services and technology sector 
workers. 

The act is a lifeline for millions of 
these workers. It provides retraining, 
income support, a health insurance tax 
credit, and other benefits to workers 
who lose their jobs due to trade. It can 
also help secondary workers who supply 
parts and services who may lose 
their jobs when the facility or service 
shuts down due to import competition. 
This is exactly the type of help trade-
displaced services workers need. 

A self-described ‘‘newly unemployed 
software engineer’’ from Hillsboro, OR 
wrote in December: ‘‘My job was moved 
to India where the company can pay 
Indians a fifth of what they pay Americans.’’ 


Another wrote: ‘‘As a 50-year-old 
high-tech manufacturing engineer with 
26 years of experience, I was laid off in 
December 2002. I am sure the new factory 
the company is building in China 
will prevent my ever returning to the 
company. I can’t even get hired into an 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4755 

entry-level position anywhere because 
I am over-qualified.’’ 

These unemployed Oregonians—and 
there are thousands of others who are 
employed in the information technology 
sector and the service sector 
who have lost their jobs—deserve to 
have this law, as our friend from Mississippi, 
Senator LOTT said, updated so 
they can get benefits in the safety net 
the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act 
offers. I have heard the distinguished 
Senator from Massachusetts champion 
this. 

It is in effect a trampoline that allows 
individuals in our country who 
have been laid off through no fault of 
their own to get the training and the 
assistance and the kind of health care 
to in effect bounce back in our economy. 


It seems to me workers reeling from 
the offshoring of service sector jobs 
cannot afford to wait for the higher 
skilled jobs that economists keep 
promising them are just around the 
corner. Higher value, higher paid systems 
integration jobs may come along, 
but I am telling you in my home 
State—and I think in communities 
across the country—a lot of unemployed 
information technology professionals 
think they are more likely to 
see Elvis than a sudden proliferation of 
help-wanted ads for new, highly skilled 
information technology jobs. 

When a worker is displaced by trade, 
it should be irrelevant whether the person 
worked in services or technology or 
manufacturing. Every worker displaced 
by trade should be eligible for this very 
same benefit. This bipartisan amendment 
ensures that will be the case. 

I again thank the distinguished Senator 
from Montana, my friend Senator 
BAUCUS. He has been so helpful to me 
on this and so many other matters during 
my service in the Senate. 

I also thank the Senator from Minnesota 
who will be joining us. He has 
worked with the distinguished Senator 
from Montana and me on this bipartisan 
amendment. 

The Senator from Minnesota has 
joined us. But we have colleagues who 
come from every part of the country 
who have joined us. Senator BROWNBACK 
has joined us, Senator SNOWE has 
joined us, Senator DODD has joined us, 
and Senator COLEMAN, Senator BAUCUS, 
and Senator ROCKEFELLER. * * * very 
hopeful that the Senate will resoundingly 
support this bipartisan amendment. 
This is about updating a law 
that is now more than three decades 
old, a law that does not cover services 
and high technology, to the detriment 
of millions of workers. We have a bipartisan 
proposal that allows that. I 
thank my good friend from Montana. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I thank 
my friend from Oregon. He has worked 
very hard on this issue. It is, frankly, a 
very bright spot in this whole bill. 
That is, it is a major way to help people 
who need help. It has been worked 
out very aggressively and thoroughly 
by an awful lot of Senators. 

The real leader is the Senator from 
Oregon, Mr. WYDEN. He has done a wonderful 
job talking with lots of different 
Senators and working out the different 
points of view to come together with 
this amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Massachusetts. 

PRESCRIPTION DRUG CARD 

Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, the 
Bush administration drug cards do not 
pass the truth in advertising test. They 
are no solution to sky-high drug prices, 
and there will not be a solution until 
we have a President and Congress who 
care about fairness for patients instead 
of higher profits for pharamaceutical 
companies. The drug companies keep 
gouging all Americans on exorbitant 
drug prices, and the Bush administration 
keeps cheering them on. It is no 
accident that the drug companies are 
working ‘‘hand in pocket’’ with the administration 
in hyping these cards and 
keeping prices high. 

The Bush administration has a perfect 
batting average on providing information 
to the American public about 
Medicare—they are misleading every 
single time, and the drug cards are no 
exception. In the great tradition of 
suppressed cost estimates and false advertising 
comes the new revelation 
that the administration cannot even 
give the public honest figures about 
prices for drugs under the new cards. 

The millions of taxpayer dollars that 
the Bush administration is spending to 
peddle its plan cannot disguise the fact 
that seniors would get a better deal 
taking a bus to Canada to buy drugs at 
fair prices there. 

The drug cards will offer small discounts 
from already inflated prices. It 
is like used car dealers who raise prices 
just before customers come to the lot, 
so they can offer phony discounts and 
make it sound like a bargain. Studies 
show that the savings from the cards 
are not significantly better than those 
provided by already existing discount 
programs. 

Unfortunately, there is no lemon law 
for these drug cards. If seniors sign up 
for a card that does not deliver the 
promised discounts, too bad. They are 
stuck with it. The card companies can 
change their discounts every week, but 
seniors are locked in for a year on the 
card they choose. The card companies 
don’t even have to pass all the discounts 
from drug companies along to 
patients. They can keep their kickbacks 
and let seniors foot the bill. 

Let’s end these deceptive tricks and 
find honest solutions to the crisis of 
excessive costs for prescription drugs. 
Americans should be able to buy safe 
drugs from abroad at the same fair 
prices that Canadians or Europeans 
pay. Medicare should be able to use the 
purchasing power of 40 million beneficiaries 
to negotiate the same low 
prices on prescription drugs that the 
Veteran’s Administration negotiates 
for veterans. But the Bush administration 
won’t allow that. Why not? Because 
it is joined at the wallet with 

drug companies and their armies of 
lobbyists and tens of millions of dollars 
in campaign contributions. 

Senior citizens want a real Medicare 
prescription drug benefit. Americans 
want fair prices for prescription drugs. 
The Bush administration and Republicans 
in Congress offer slick advertisements, 
a well-oiled public relations 
machine, and lots of promises, but no 
performance. It is time for a change. 

I will share with the Senate exactly 
what these cards will do and what they 
will not do. This chart is entitled, ‘‘The 
Medicare Drug Cards: No substitute for 
real cost savings.’’ This is the cost of a 
1-month supply of the top 10 drugs 
which seniors most often use. This line 
represents the U.S. Federal supply 
schedule, $587. That is the cost under 
the VA system through the negotiation. 
It is $596 for the same 1-month 
supply of the top 10 drugs for Canada; 
$972 at Walgreens. RXSavings is $1,046, 
with $1,061 for the PCA, the two Medicare 
drug cards. 

If we had in the Medicare bill the 
ability for the Secretary of HHS to negotiate 
the prices down, we would be at 
$587 or the $596. Instead, it is the higher 
figure. 

This next chart shows the same 
thing. These prices available to Medicare 
beneficiaries are well below the 
prices available with the new Medicare 
discount cards. Again, the price for the 
market basket of the top 10 drugs, 
drugstore.com, $959. This is without 
any annual fee. The annual fees can go 
up to $30 in Medicare. You cannot go 
above $30. Under Costco.com, $990 with 
no fee. Total cost is $959 and $990. 
Under Walgreens, it is $972. The annual 
fee of $20 puts it at $992. Pharmacy 
RXSavings is $1,046 with a $30 annual 
fee, to put it at $1,076. At Pharmacy 
Care Alliance, $1,061, plus $19 for the 
annual fee, and that equals $1,080. 

This is what could be received today. 
It clearly reflects no savings on this. 
The other chart showed the difference 
if we had in the Medicare bill the ability 
for real negotiations. We would 
have the savings reflected in the VA or 
as it is in Canada. 

The administration now is pulling 
out all the stops in terms of what it is 
going to do for the seniors. This does 
not pass the truth in advertising test. 
It is not effective savings at all. Our 
seniors are able to receive better pricing 
through drugstore.com and 
Costco.com. 

This is a continuation of the kind of 
challenge we are facing. Hopefully, before 
the end of this session we will have 
the opportunity to get back to doing 
something about real negotiations on 
prescription drugs. 

SUDAN 

Mr. President, I commend the Foreign 
Relations Committee for its action 
last week in reporting a resolution 
urging action by the United States and 
the international community to respond 
to the ongoing ethnic violence in 
Sudan. The Senate should act on this 
resolution as soon as possible. 


S4756 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

It has been 10 years since the Rwanda 
genocide. A decade ago, 8,000 Rwandans 
were being killed every day, yet the 
international community was silent. 
We did not stop the deaths of 800,000 
Tutsis and politically moderate Hutu, 
in spite of our commitment that genocide 
must never again darken the annals 
of human history. 

Sadly, we may now be repeating the 
same mistake in Sudan. 

In 1998, President Clinton made a special 
visit to Kigali, Rwanda’s capital, 
‘‘partly,’’ he said, ‘‘in recognition of 
the fact that we in the United States 
and the world community did not do as 
much as we could have and should have 
done to try to limit what occurred’’ in 
Rwanda. His visit and strong words remind 
us that we must not hesitate to 
act, when the horror is clear and when 
so many lives may be lost. 

Over the past few weeks, reports of 
severe ethnic violence have come from 
Darfur, a region of western Sudan. We 
have heard accounts of thousands or 
even tens of thousands of people murdered, 
of widespread rape, and of people’s 
homes burned to the ground. 

The Sudanese government has refused 
to allow full access to western 
Sudan. International monitors and humanitarian 
workers have been prevented 
from reaching the area. We need 
immediate access to gather more information 
on what is happening and to 
provide urgent humanitarian relief to 
the one million people the United Nations 
reports have been displaced internally 
in Sudan or across the border to 
Chad. 

Many of us hoped that the humanitarian 
cease-fire and agreement earlier 
this month between the Sudanese Government 
and rebel forces in western 
Sudan would end the many months of 
violence against entire communities. It 
has not. The bombing of villages by the 
Sudanese Air Force continues, and so 
does the mayhem by the paramilitary 
forces unleashed by the Government of 
Sudan. 

The burning of homes and crops of 
desperately poor villagers has left in 
its ashes a humanitarian disaster. 
Without immediate relief, experts predict 
deaths in the hundreds of thousands. 
The cruelty of the Government 
of Sudan and its paramilitary allies 
against other ethnic groups raises the 
very real specter of genocide. 

The United States and the international 
community need to act now, 
to stop this brutality, to save lives. 

President Bush should make a strong 
public statement alerting the world to 
the violence in Darfur. He should call 
the international community to action, 
and increase pressure on the Sudanese 
Government. Doing so would 
send a strong signal that the international 
community will not accept 
these continuing atrocities. Sudan has 
been seeking better relations with the 
United States. It must be told that our 
Nation will have no relations with a 
genocidal government. 

The United States should propose a 
resolution in the United Nations Secu


rity Council to condemn the violations 
of international law being committed 
in Darfur, particularly the indiscriminate 
targeting of civilians and the obstruction 
of humanitarian aid by the 
government. The U.N. should demand 
immediate international access to the 
region to assess the full scale of the 
need for assistance. The U.N. should 
also insist on adequate support for 
international human rights monitors 
and for monitors of the cease-fire 
agreement reached last week. 

The international community must 
demand that Sudan stop the violence 
now, and give full humanitarian access 
to Darfur without question or qualification. 


To minimize the suffering of those 
affected by the violence, we should immediately 
identify funds and food aid 
to meet at least the traditional U.S. 
share of the $110 million appeal from 
the U.N. Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian Affairs to support urgently 
needed assistance for internally 
displaced persons and refugees. These 
internally displaced persons and refugees 
must also be allowed by the Sudanese 
Government and militias to return 
safely to their homes, to rebuild 
their lives and communities, as soon as 
possible. 

The European community, African 
countries and the rest of the international 
community should use their 
considerable influence to pressure 
Sudan to end the violence in Darfur, 
and end it now. 

If the international community fails 
to act—and to act now—the consequences 
will be dire. 

United Nations Secretary General 
Kofi Annan was eloquent in his statement 
at the commemoration of the 
10th anniversary of the Rwanda genocide. 
He said that he would not permit 
Darfur to become the first genocide of 
the 21st century. 

There will be discussion in Washington 
and around the world about 
whether the ethnic violence in Darfur 
is, in fact, genocide, but we cannot 
allow the debate over definitions obstruct 
our ability to act as soon as possible. 


It is a matter of the highest moral 
responsibility for each of us individually, 
for Congress, for the United 
States, and for the global community 
to do all we can to stop the violence 
against innocents in Darfur. We must 
act, because thousands of people’s lives 
will be lost if we don’t. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I see 
Senator COLEMAN of Minnesota on the 
floor. I want to say how much I deeply 
appreciate all the effort he has undertaken 
on behalf of the pending amendment. 
He is one of the two or three who 
worked mightily to get this amendment 
in shape. I want the people in 
Minnesota and our Senators to know 
how much he has done. I am very honored 
to have been a part of his team in 

working with him as he has crafted and 
offered this amendment we are now debating. 


I thank the Senator. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Minnesota. 

Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. President, first, I 
thank my friend and colleague from 
Montana for his kind words and for giving 
me the opportunity to work with 
him in a bipartisan manner on this important 
amendment. Actually, earlier 
this year, I was able to join with my 
friend, Senator BAUCUS, the ranking 
member of the Finance Committee, in 
introducing legislation to extend trade 
adjustment assistance to American 
service sector workers. I call that good 
Minnesota commonsense legislation. 

Today I rise to join Senators WYDEN 
and BAUCUS to offer a modified version 
of this important legislation as an 
amendment to the JOBS bill. Our 
amendment not only extends trade adjustment 
assistance to service sector 
workers, but also improves and 
strengthens the TAA program for all 
American workers. 

I say to my colleagues, if you care 
about the issue of offshoring and outsourcing 
and are searching for a positive, 
constructive, forward-looking way 
of addressing these challenges, this is 
it. I say to my colleagues, if you support 
trade and expanding trade opportunities, 
but recognize that along the 
way there are going to be some workers 
who are going to be hurt as we grow 
and expand—and we need to grow and 
expand; and trade is part of that—we 
can address that. 

I am a strong supporter of trade adjustment 
assistance because trade adjustment 
assistance is critical to 
achieving a balance: the expansion of 
trade but meeting the needs of those 
workers who are negatively impacted. 

Earlier when Senator WYDEN, my colleague 
from Oregon, spoke, he talked 
about the bipartisan support this 
amendment appreciates and enjoys. 
Senator SMITH has supported this legislation, 
and Senator SNOWE, Senator 
BROWNBACK, and many others. 

It is also important to note this legislation 
has received industry sup-
port—most notably support from the 
Information Technology Industry Association 
and the Business Roundtable— 
for extending TAA to service sector 
workers. 

The TAA program has a history that 
dates back more than 40 years. The 
program was created in the early 1960s, 
and it is fascinating to go back and review 
the speeches President Kennedy 
and Members of Congress made on this 
same topic more than 4 decades ago. 

We often assume issues such as 
globalization and the offshoring and 
outsourcing of jobs are new issues, but 
it is striking to note how some of the 
arguments we hear being made today 
were made 40 years ago. Of course, 
some of the terms used, such as 
‘‘globalization,’’ are of recent vintage. 
But the underlying desire to address 
the needs of these who are harmed by 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4757 

trade is almost identical to those discussed 
40 years ago. 

At that time, the President and Congress 
agreed to go forward in the pursuit 
of free trade, but they also agreed 
to provide financial support to workers 
who lose their jobs and to provide retraining 
benefits to assist them in finding 
new jobs. 

Over the years, some of the specifics 
of the program have changed. Some 
initiatives have worked and others 
have not worked so well. The TAA program 
has evolved as we have learned 
more and faced new challenges. 

The most comprehensive effort to update 
TAA was in the Trade Act of 2002. 
In much the same way they had 40 
years ago, the President and Congress 
decided to pursue a policy to go forward, 
seeking the benefits of free trade, 
and decided to build a comprehensive 
program to deal with the needs of those 
harmed by trade. 

I will not try to list every single 
amendment to TAA made in that legislation; 
There are simply too many to 
mention. But in the 2 years that have 
passed, we have seen things that have 
worked and seen things that need improvement. 
Addressing the shortcomings 
is the impetus for the amendment 
we are offering now. 

This amendment may not address all 
the problems with regard to TAA. In a 
number of areas, such as the new program 
for farmers, the solution may 
simply be more vigorous congressional 
oversight to ensure the program lives 
up to the law. The Court of International 
Trade has criticized some of 
the administrative decisions made in 
implementing the program. This may 
be a place where Congress should step 
in to see that the ideas it put into legislation 
become a reality. 

Our amendment makes at least one 
commonsense fix to a problem our 
dairy farmers are having with the program. 
We worked closely with the National 
Milk Producers Federation on a 
solution to this problem. 

I would add that although President 
Kennedy advocated TAA for farmers 
some 40 years ago, it did not come 
about until a couple years ago, and 
probably never would have come about 
but for the hard work and efforts of the 
chairman of the Finance Committee, 
Senator GRASSLEY. Senator GRASSLEY 
said at that time: 

I am very concerned that if we lose farm 
support for free trade it will be very hard for 
us to win congressional support for new 
trade deals when they are concluded. 

Some good food for thought for the 
folks who administer this program: We 
have to make this program work for 
the farm industry. 

With regard to the taconite workers 
in my State, I believe vigorous oversight 
can help the Department of Labor 
find ways to use TAA to address their 
concerns. Here again, we have made 
one legislative modification in hopes of 
putting this issue to bed for good. This 
is good news for the Iron Range in Minnesota. 


In other areas, new problems requiring 
legislation have become apparent. 
There have been numerous newspaper 
stories in recent months covering the 
tragedy of computer programmers and 
others who have seen their jobs move 
to India and elsewhere. From reading 
these stories, one might think these 
are obvious cases for TAA, but most of 
these computer workers have been denied 
TAA because they produce ‘‘services’’ 
and TAA presently only covers 
‘‘goods.’’ Since the overwhelming majority 
of working Americans are officially 
classified as service workers, 
this is an enormously significant distinction. 


I note that in conversation with 
many of my colleagues, I am not sure 
they are even aware the current law 
does not cover service workers. There 
was a sense, when we passed TAA, that 
we covered the needs of those who were 
impacted negatively by trade. But the 
reality is, 80 percent of the workers are 
service workers. They are not currently 
protected. This amendment 
would do that. 

This is an area where I understand 
some litigation is underway, but we do 
not have to wait for a court to decide. 
It seems obvious that workers employed 
as computer programmers are 
just as unemployed as workers in a textile 
factory when they lose their jobs. 
They should be entitled to the same 
benefits. Splitting hairs in defining 
services and goods misses the undeniable 
point that service workers deserve 
no less than workers in the ‘‘goods’’ 
sector. 

Specifically this amendment would 
make three important changes to the 
TAA program to ensure service workers 
are treated fairly. 

First, in cases in which service workers 
lose their jobs because of service 
imports, these workers are made eligible 
for TAA. The best known example 
of a situation similar to this is the case 
of Mexican trucking firms which are 
striving to carry freight within the 
United States. U.S. truck drivers that 
might lose their jobs to such competition 
would be eligible for TAA under 
this amendment. 

Second, service workers who lose 
their jobs when the facility they work 
in moves out of the United States—the 
problem we have read about in recent 
months—would be eligible for TAA. 
Thus, under this amendment, if a call 
center or computer programming facility 
moves from Minneapolis to India, 
the workers would be eligible for TAA. 

Finally, in those cases where the 
service workers provide services to a 
plant or facility that closes, moves, or 
reduces employment, these workers are 
eligible for TAA if the primary plant or 
facility is eligible for TAA. This simply 
parallels the so-called secondary workers 
provisions now in the law for workers 
producing goods. 

For example, under present law, if a 

U.S. plant producing lawnmowers 
closes due to import competition, the 
workers at the plant and the workers 
at the facilities that supply lawnmower 
parts to the manufacturing plant 
would be eligible for TAA. But if the 
closed lawnmower plant contracted for 
janitorial services, the janitorial workers 
that lose their jobs would not be 
covered. This amendment eliminates 
this obvious inequity and treats the 
workers that provide services to the 
lawnmower plant just as it does those 
who assemble lawnmower motors. 

The issue of TAA has special significance 
to airline workers from my State 
and around the country. Last night 
members of the Aircraft Mechanics 
Fraternal Association flew from Minnesota 
to Washington to share their 
stories and the stories of workers they 
represent from all around the country 
with some of my colleagues who represent 
their membership. These folks 
represent service workers who, when 
they lose their jobs, receive little if 
any help in getting back on their feet. 
Folks like George Sleva of Forest 
Lake, MN, and Kurt Kulschar from 
Lakeville, MN, are just some of the airline 
mechanics left out in the cold 
under the current TAA program. One of 
the guys described it this way: 

I worked hard. I was a great taxpayer. Everything 
was going well. And then the table 
turned and now I’m in a world of hurt. 

Our amendment would take some of 
the sting out of this world of hurt that 
thousands like George and Kurt have 
had to go through. 

The second major feature of this 
amendment provides TAA benefits to 
all workers who lose their jobs when 
the plant or facility that employs them 
closes and moves out of the United 
States, regardless of where the plant 
moves. Thus, if the lawnmower plant 
closed and moved out of the country, 
its workers and those supplies would be 
covered regardless of whether the plant 
moved to Canada or to China or to 
India. I was disappointed to learn recently 
that the 2002 law apparently requires 
that if a factory closes and 
moves to Mexico, its workers are automatically 
eligible for TAA, but if the 
same plant moves to China, they are 
not. This is one of those things that 
Lincoln talked about, a ‘‘skunks giving 
their own publicity’’ kind of thing. It 
doesn’t make sense. It is obvious to 
make the change, and this amendment 
makes that kind of change. 

But we can clear up the air, if you 
will, or any ambiguity by rewriting the 
law to clearly state that all workers 
who lose their jobs when their employers 
leave the country are eligible for 
TAA regardless of the country they 
move to. That makes sense. That is 
what this amendment does. I want to 
applaud President Bush’s strong leadership 
in this area. I appreciate the administration’s 
shared goal that TAA 
coverage should be expanded to include 
workers affected by shifts in production 
to any country, not just Mexico or 
Canada. 

One of the most valuable portions of 
the 2002 act was the extension of a tax 
credit for health insurance to TAA 


S4758 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

workers. Without some assistance to 
gain health insurance for themselves 
and their families, it is hard to imagine 
that workers could really take advantage 
of TAA. The amendment we are 
offering improves this health insurance 
provision in several important ways. 
First, it makes a series of technical 
amendments to ensure that TAA recipients 
get a meaningful opportunity 
to really obtain health insurance. The 
most important provision on this topic, 
however, raises the percentage of 
health insurance costs covered by the 
program from 65 percent in existing 
law to 75 percent. This is the same 
level of health insurance premium assistance 
that workers in the private 
sector receive. 

I understand this was the provision 
when TAA was passed in 2002 that the 
Senate advocated at 75 percent. Afford-
ability of health insurance is a problem 
for everyone, but for people who have 
lost their jobs, it is of particular hardship. 
This amendment improves afford-
ability of health insurance, which will 
improve access to care, a goal we all 
can agree upon. 

One of the problems that have limited 
the effectiveness of the current 
health care system is dislocated workers 
have had difficulty finding the 35 
percent of the health insurance bill 
that must come out of their pocket. I 
am sure that for many workers it will 
still be a challenge to find 25 percent as 
required under this amendment, but 
our amendment will make it a little 
bit easier. 

I know that some will say that including 
health care provisions in TAA 
is controversial, but it is important for 
all Senators to understand that this 
concept was originally advanced by a 
bipartisan Trade Deficit Review Commission, 
a bipartisan group with some 
very prominent Republican members, 
including Ambassador Robert Zoellick, 
Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, 
and former President Bush’s Trade 
Representative Carla Hills. I emphasize 
that the recommendation for transitional 
health insurance was supported 
unanimously by the Commission. 

Finally, this amendment would allow 
wage insurance to be extended to workers 
who are 40 years of age or older. 
The current law only applies to workers 
over 50. In my opinion, wage insurance 
makes sense for workers over 50, 
but I think it also makes sense for 
workers who are 20 years old. It may be 
that traditional retraining will also 
benefit workers in their 20s just as it 
might workers in their 50s, but I think 
that is a decision best left to the individual 
worker and not one best made 
by government. 

Given the fact that we are still building 
a record on wage insurance, this 
amendment only lowers the requirement 
to 40 years of age. This is certainly 
a step in the right direction and 
is likely to allow many workers to 
make choices with where they want to 
go in their career and how best to prepare 
for their new jobs. 

Also I note the maximum cost of 
wage insurance under the law is less 
than the maximum cost of traditional 
TAA under current law. In other words, 
wage insurance might also be a cheap 
approach to retraining. We should 
make it available to as many TAA recipients 
as possible for their own good 
and to limit the burden on the Federal 
budget. 

There are many other good ideas for 
improvement in the TAA program, but 
this amendment makes some important 
steps forward and deserves the 
support of the Senate. 

In my opinion, TAA is an honest, responsible, 
productive way to directly 
address the needs of those harmed by 
trade and globalization. There are real 
needs out there as evidenced by the 
hundreds of applications from my home 
State of Minnesota alone, hundreds of 
which have been certified and probably 
nearly as many denied for the reasons 
this amendment today seeks to address. 


When I was mayor of St. Paul, I used 
to point out that the best welfare program 
was a job; the best housing program 
was a job. Access to health care 
often comes with a job. Putting people 
back to work in a job is exactly what 
TAA is designed to do. Of course, there 
is no single solution to all the problems, 
but TAA is a real solution not 
just a snake oil suggestion. 

It is a real chance to address the 
needs of workers, and as such it can do 
a great deal to help Americans adjust 
and prosper through the challenges of 
globalization and offshoring. TAA is 
not free. It will require an investment 
of resources to make it work. But if it 
can help all Americans grow and prosper 
in a competitive global economy, it 
is money well spent. I note in this regard 
that we have identified a full 
budget offset for our amendment, an 
offset recognized by Treasury and OMB 
as saving about $5.7 billion over the 
course of 10 years. 

America cannot turn its back on 
trade. To do so would be bad policy. 
But America must not turn its back on 
our working men and women either. To 
do so would be wrong. Trade adjustment 
assistance is a way to embrace 
both trade and our Nation’s hard-working 
men or women. It is the right thing 
do. 

I urge my colleagues to support this 
important amendment. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, first, I 
thank, again, my good friends from 
Minnesota and Oregon, Senators COLEMAN 
and WYDEN, for their very strong 
work on this amendment. I support 
this very strongly for a special reason. 
I have the privilege of representing the 
State of Montana. About 20 years ago, 
Montana lost a lot of copper miners 
and smelter workers. Why? Because of 
foreign competition. At the time it was 
probably employment overseas—in 
Chile, for example—and, in addition, it 

was the subsidized smelter operations 
north of the border in Canada. These 
folks worked very hard, and it affected 
the lives of a lot of these men, and 
sometimes women, who held these jobs 
for a few generations. We had created 
trade adjustment assistance for these 
workers. 

I can tell you a lot of people who lost 
their jobs on account of trade were able 
to get some retraining, get a lifeline 
thrown to them because they had no 
place else to go. Many of them were 45, 
50, 55 years old. They didn’t know what 
to do. There were no other jobs around. 
Those were good-paying jobs, very 
good-paying jobs. We had TAA. I remember 
that I had to do battle with 
the Department of Labor to get the 
Montanans who were laid off; in this 
case, they were smelter workers. Finally, 
we got a little relief from the 
Department of Labor at the time when 
trade adjustment assistance was granted—
not in very large measure, but it 
was granted to smelter workers particularly 
in Montana. You could see it 
was just enough to keep them from 
being totally despondent. Those were 
the early days of TAA. The retraining 
provisions really didn’t work terribly 
well. But based upon my experience 
with TAA in Montana, I see the great 
need for training. 

Now, clearly, the need for retraining 
workers who lose their jobs on account 
of trade is even greater than it was 
back then. It is much greater now for a 
few reasons. No. 1, the United States is 
much more engaged in a global economy. 
We are so interrelated worldwide. 
It is much more likely, therefore, that 
the actions taken by a headquarters in 
Tokyo, or in any other country around 
the world, has a direct affect on workers 
in the United States, and vice 
versa. American global companies, or 
multinational companies, have to compete 
vigorously in order to stay in existence. 
It is a very competitive world. 

Other countries have very aggressive 
ways to help their companies. We know 
many of them are subsidized in ways 
that are not available in the United 
States. Other companies are helped by 
their host countries. In many ways, 
American companies are not helped by 
America. It is basically because we 
have much more of a free enterprise 
system. Our Founding Fathers came 
over from England years ago and wanted 
freedom and independence—‘‘go 
West young man,’’ and sending a man 
to the Moon. We are an entrepreneurial 
country. We like freedom. We like 
doing things more on our own. It is 
probably one of the main reasons the 
United States has become such a great 
country. That is why we are, in some 
respects, the biggest and strongest and 
wealthiest country in the world. 

Global competition has been very 
good for the United States. I think 
that is probably because we are a little 
more entrepreneurial. We try a little 
harder and we are probably a little 
more creative. It is because of the nature 
of what it is to be an American. At 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4759 

the same time, clearly, the jobs in 
America are in greater jeopardy as a 
consequence than they were 20 or 30 
years ago. It is because of this competition. 
You will also find that a category 
of jobs is in greater jeopardy today, 
and those are service industry jobs. 
Why? Because of the unbelievable advances 
in technology, particularly 
communications technology. Information 
is now digitized. We have much 
more broadband capability worldwide. 
So a lot of services, whether financial 
services, medical services, or many 
kinds of services, can be sent by wire 
or by speed of light anyplace in the 
world. People around the world are 
taking advantage of that. They are 
training people maybe at a lower wage, 
so the American jobs that otherwise 
were here can go overseas, and vice 
versa. All countries are finding that 
their employees are losing jobs on account 
of trade. All the major countries 
are finding that. Germany is finding 
that, as are France, Japan, and others. 

We are also finding that we are all 
losing jobs due to outsourcing, 
offshoring. In effect, jobs are going 
overseas. But on a net effect, we are 
still creating many more jobs than we 
are losing. 

Having said all that, the purpose of 
this amendment is to address one part 
of the competitiveness problem. That 
is, what do we do about the people who 
lose jobs through no fault of their own? 
Clearly, we should come up with something. 
The answer in this bill is trade 
adjustment assistance. It is expanding 
the current trade adjustment assistance 
program that applies only to manufacturing 
workers to also service industry 
workers who lose their jobs. We 
have heard some describe some additional 
provisions of this trade adjustment 
assistance amendment. It is attractive 
in some cases and has good 
health benefits. That is important, too, 
because the current trade adjustment 
assistance hasn’t been working terribly 
well. One reason is because the health 
provisions don’t work well. The lingo is 
the ‘‘uptake,’’ or whatever it is. What 
it comes down to is, how many people 
who theoretically qualify for health insurance 
benefits under trade adjustment 
assistance actually take them? 
The answer is a very low percentage, 2 
or 3 percent. It is because there are so 
many bureaucratic hurdles, procedural 
hurdles, and it is so difficult. 

We made a lot of changes in this bill 
so that more people who lose their jobs 
on account of trade also are able to get 
not only retrained, but get health insurance 
benefits, where they pay 25 
percent and the Government will pay 
the rest for a certain period of time. As 
we all know, when you lose your job, 
you often lose your health insurance. If 
you lose your health insurance, it is a 
double whammy. Not only have you 
lost your job, but you cannot pay the 
medical bills. 

This throws in a lifeline and helps 
people who lose jobs on account of 
trade. As has been stated, it is totally 

bipartisan. We are working on both 
sides of the aisle. Why is it bipartisan? 
It is because it is that important, it 
makes that much common sense, and it 
is very much the right thing to do. I 
am very proud to be associated and 
working with the Senator from Oregon 
and the Senator from Minnesota. I 
thank them very much for their good 
effort. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Oregon is recognized. 

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I see my 
colleagues still in the Chamber. I 
thank the Senator from Montana and 
the Senator from Minnesota, especially 
as the Senator from Montana touched 
on the issue of health insurance costs 
for people who have been laid off in 
high-tech and the manufacturing sector. 
As we heard earlier, these are folks 
who are getting hit by a wrecking ball 
with respect to health care. They literally 
have nowhere to turn. Many of 
them are not old enough for Medicare, 
not poor enough for Medicaid. They 
don’t fit into a lot of the categories— 
these boxes by which you get health 
care in our country. 

So what we did in these bipartisan 
negotiations—and the Senator from 
Minnesota was particularly helpful, 
but I also commend the Senator from 
West Virginia, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, who 
is very much involved in this effort to 
get a bipartisan agreement with respect 
to a 75-percent allocation of the 
coverage—we were able to add critical 
benefits for spouses, which is something 
that was so important to help 
people where there was an interruption 
in coverage. 

So what the Senator from Montana 
has outlined with respect to health 
care issues was exactly, in my view, 
how the Senate ought to move to deal 
with a very real problem but to do it in 
a bipartisan way. As we began those 
discussions, we had some folks who 
wanted to go even higher than the 
number we set out. Some people said 
you cannot go there at all because of 
the deficit. 

But we made the judgment on a bipartisan 
basis that you could not afford 
not to cover these people because 
if, for example, as has been documented 
in the Finance Committee, 
these people cannot get coverage on an 
outpatient basis, what will happen 
again and again is they will face the 
need to have more extensive and much 
more expensive medical services. I was 
very glad the Senator from Montana 
brought up the bipartisan agreement as 
it related to the health care issue. 

The Senator from Minnesota and the 
Senator from West Virginia, Mr. 
ROCKEFELLER, were especially helpful 
in the efforts led by the distinguished 
Senator from Montana. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, might I 
ask my friend a question? Is it also 
true that other Senators have contributed 
to portions of this legislation, 
such as Senator BINGAMAN who added a 
provision with respect to trade adjustment 
assistance on communities; is 
that not correct? 

Mr. WYDEN. The Senator from Montana 
is absolutely right. A lot of Senators 
have been at this issue for many 
of years. Senator BINGAMAN’s contribution 
with respect to community services 
in the health care area is very important. 
I heard my colleague from Oregon, 
Senator SMITH, talk about the 
health care needs of folks laid off in 
the high-tech and service areas. He has 
been supportive as well. 

The Senator from Montana is absolutely 
right. There have been a lot of 
Senators who have been at it with respect 
to this issue. It is a bipartisan 
proposal, but right at the heart of that 
is dealing with the health care issue. 
Health care, as we all know, has been 
the toughest issue for the Senate to 
deal with for some time. This is an 
area where there has been a real breakthrough 
with respect to health care. It 
had to be bipartisan—the Senator from 
Montana is right—or a lot of Senators 
would not be involved. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Might I also ask a 
question of my good friend from Minnesota? 
This amendment adds new dollars 
for retraining. Doesn’t the Senator 
agree that the new jobs in the future 
are going to have to be, for want of a 
better expression, smarter jobs; that is, 
even someone who repairs automobiles 
today has to understand computers? 
You do not just have a wrench and a 
screwdriver these days to build and repair 
cars; you have to learn computer 
skills, maybe programming skills. Isn’t 
it true, if we are going to compete in 
the world, that we have to spend a lot 
of time and effort on retraining because 
of the additional needs in the future, 
and that is another reason for 
supporting this amendment? 

Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. President, my 
friend, the ranking member of the Finance 
Committee, is absolutely correct. 
We have the strongest economy in 
the world. The way we are going to 
keep that strong economy and keep 
moving forward is if we have the best 
training and the best skilled workers. 

The reality is the jobs of yesterday 
may not be the jobs of today or tomorrow. 
So my friend from Montana is correct 
in what this amendment does. It 
provides opportunity for those who 
may be impacted by a job that may be 
a job of yesterday, to give them an opportunity 
to have a job of tomorrow to 
take care of their families. 

I also note in response to the Senator 
from Oregon, Mr. WYDEN, in talking 
about the health insurance provisions, 
we are talking about a tax credit. This 
is a tax credit. I think that is important. 
I support tax credits. I think that 
is a very fiscally responsible way to 
provide opportunities. 

I also note that under the existing 
TAA, I believe less than 5 percent of 
those eligible are using this tax credit. 
The Senate originally intended to do 
better than that. I was not here in 2002. 
I am still relatively new in this body, 
but I have to believe that my colleagues, 
when they enacted the tax 
credit, the health insurance provision, 


S4760 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

anticipated that more folks would take 
advantage of it. The reality is they 
have not. What we are doing here is 
providing an opportunity to make use 
of something that I believe was the intention 
of my colleagues. 

As I noted earlier, I found it fascinating 
in talking with many of my 
colleagues about the idea that we 
should extend this to service workers 
that many of them actually presumed 
they were included. I think there was 
an intention in extending TAA 2002 to 
cover those impacted. What this 
amendment does is expand it. 

I ask a question of my colleague from 
Oregon, and Oregon is a State known 
as one of the high-tech centers of this 
country, is it correct, as I understand, 
that both the Business Roundtable representing 
employers and the High-Tech 
Council have indicated their support of 
extending TAA to service workers? 

Mr. WYDEN. The Senator is right. In 
addition to the bipartisan support in 
the Senate, there has been very significant 
bipartisan support in the business 
community. There are an awful lot of 
business leaders who have been looking 
for these kinds of ideas that the Senator 
from Minnesota has really 
touched on. This is a question of updating 
our law. I don’t think anybody got 
up in the morning years ago and said: 
Let’s be rotten to service workers. 
That was not what happened at all. I 
think people just did not really see 
what a critical role service and high 
technology were going to play in the 
economy. The business organizations 
that the Senator from Minnesota has 
mentioned do. They get it. They understand 
it is absolutely critical to not 
leave something like four-fifths of the 
workers behind. 

I join with the Senator from Minnesota 
and commend him and thank 
him for his support. 

Mr. COLEMAN. If the Senator will 
yield for another question, in addition 
to updating this law, would it be fair to 
say it would make it easier for folks to 
use? Today, for instance, current law 
makes it automatic that you get TAA 
if it is with a country that has an 
agreement with the United States. So 
Mexico and Canada fit into that law. 
As we read the papers, so many jobs we 
are talking about today that negatively 
impact workers are jobs that 
may be lost to China and India. Would 
it be fair to say in addition to updating, 
we make it easier for workers negatively 
impacted to take advantage of 
provisions under law? 

Mr. WYDEN. The Senator is right. I 
think it is fair to say that the certification 
process today for the workers is 
almost a kind of bureaucratic water 
torture. It involves essentially a different 
process with different countries. 

What we tried to do in our bipartisan 
discussions is to try to streamline the 
process, make it worker friendly. I 
think this is really going to expedite 
the processing, expedite the certification. 


Obviously when these families are 
hurting—and we are talking about peo


ple who have been laid off after years 
and years of employment—they are on 
this economic tightrope trying to figure 
out how to balance and pay for essentials. 
The last thing they need to do 
is jump through hoop after bureaucratic 
hoop to get these benefits. The 
Senator from Minnesota is right, that 
is a significant improvement as well. 

Nobody knows more about this subject 
than the Senator from Montana 
because he and his staff have worked 
on this issue at length. Streamlining is 
very helpful. 

Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. President, again 
I thank the Senator from Oregon and 
the Senator from Montana for the opportunity 
I had to work with them on 
this amendment. I am pleased we are 
able to include Senator SNOWE’s TAA 
for communities bill and Senator 
ALLEN’s Homestead Act that will protect 
dislocated workers’ mortgages and 
their homes. Those are also included. I 
think it adds to the broad bipartisan 
support this amendment enjoys. 

I thank the Chair. 

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, at one 
time I had the floor. I yield at this 
point and again hope the Senate will 
support the bipartisan initiative that 
has involved many months of work and 
is critically needed in the economic 
challenges we face today. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. FITZGERALD). 
The Senator from Montana. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, we have 
made good progress today. The Senate 
has had good debate on the Harkin 
overtime amendment, finally. Senator 
COLLINS has proposed an amendment 
on manufacturing jobs credit. Senator 
WYDEN and Senator COLEMAN have offered 
their amendment on trade adjustment 
assistance. I am hopeful the Senate 
will be able to vote in relation to 
these amendments tomorrow afternoon. 


We are also looking forward to Senators 
DORGAN and MIKULSKI having an 
opportunity to offer their amendment 
on runaway plants tomorrow. Thereafter, 
we hope to continue to work 
through other amendments as they become 
available. We hope to continue to 
make good progress with amendments 
and completion of this bill on a fairly 
timely basis. 

Again, I thank my colleagues very 
much for the work we have done today. 
We are off to a very good start. 

I just feel that we are going to make 
our way through this bill this week. At 
least that is my hope. I thank my colleagues. 


I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. REID. What is the status of the 
Senate at this time? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Harkin 
amendment is pending to S. 1637. 

Mr. REID. I ask unanimous consent 
that I be allowed to speak as in morning 
business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

A POSITIVE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I am very 
happy for all Nevadans today that Senator 
KERRY is now beginning a message 
of positive accomplishments in the 
State of Nevada. We have waited some 
time for this. The Democratic nominee 
was really selected the first part of 
March. During the 60 days since then, 
Senator KERRY has been obligated to 
get his campaign in order after the 
very difficult and hectic primary. 

Of course, during this period of time 
there has been $70 million spent to try 
to define him in a way that was very 
negative. Senator KERRY’s message beginning 
today is one of a very positive 
message. It, of course, talks about his 
being a combat veteran and having received 
a number of awards for heroism 
during the time he fought in the jungles 
of southeast Asia. Senator KERRY 
not only was decorated for his bravery, 
but some of those acts of bravery occurred 
during a time when he was injured. 


One time when he was injured, he directed 
fire to protect somebody who 
had been knocked off his swift boat 
into the water, and Senator KERRY 
himself brought this man to safety 
even though Senator KERRY himself 
was injured at the time. 

The message to the people of Nevada 
is that he cares about people, especially 
the middle class. He is a man of 
principle. I have served with Senator 
KERRY now in Congress for some 22 
years. He has had extensive experience 
in State government. He has served the 
people of Massachusetts now for 30 
years. I believe he is a man of integrity 
and that he will establish to the people 
of this country that he believes in a 
stronger America. I am very happy the 
message that is being pronounced 
today in the State of Nevada and other 
places in the country is one of a positive 
nature. I think we need that. 

I hope this campaign for the Presidency 
of the United States can talk 
about the positive of each of the two 
men running for President. I can remember 
when I first ran for public office, 
no one would ever consider a negative 
campaign ad. You searched for 
what was in your record that you could 
give to the people, in my instance the 
State of Nevada, and sometimes as a 
young man it was very hard to find 
things because you had not had much 
experience. But these two men now are 
very mature and both should run on 
what they can give the American people 
and not try to downgrade and belittle 
the other. I repeat that I hope the 
campaign will be kept on that high 
basis. There is no reason it should not. 
The American people, I think, are tired 
of negative campaigning. 

I see my friend is here. I had a longer 
statement, but I can work on that 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4761 

later. I don’t know if the Senator is 
wishing to close this body this 
evening? I am waiting for him to do so. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Kentucky. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
now proceed to a period of morning 
business, with Senators permitted to 
speak for up to 10 minutes each. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES 

TRIBUTE TO PAT TILLMAN 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, in 
November of 1864, when the ‘‘awful universe 
of battle’’ raged across America, 
President Abraham Lincoln paused to 
write a letter to one Mrs. Bixby, the 
mother of five sons serving in the Civil 
War. 

Dear Madame, I have been shown in the 
files of the War Department a statement of 
the Adjutant General of Massachusetts that 
you are the mother of five sons who have 
died gloriously on the field of battle. 

I feel how weak and fruitless must be any 
words of mine that should attempt to beguile 
you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. 

But I cannot refrain from tendering to you 
the consolation that may be found in the 
thanks of the Republic they died to save. 

I pray our heavenly Father may assuage 
the anguish of your bereavement, and leave 
you only the cherished memory of the loved 
and lost, and the solemn pride that must be 
yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon 
the altar of freedom. 

In the face of tragic death, it is beyond 
my capacity to conceive of the 
words that could justify the cause of 
freedom. 

Yet with President Lincoln’s words 
of 140 years ago, I cannot conceive of 
any better words to consecrate the 
cause of freedom in the face of such 
tragedy. 

As long as freedom last, these words 
are immortal. 

Every President and every leader in 
the free world since who has had to call 
upon their soldiers to defend freedom 
knows of Abe Lincoln’s letter to widow 
Bixby. 

Upon hearing of the death in combat 
of any of our fine young men and 
women in uniform, all leaders of freedom 
have searched for the right words 
and likely returned to those used by 
the Great Emancipator almost a century 
and a half ago for inspiration. 

Eleven days ago, another costly sacrifice 
was laid upon the altar of freedom. 


Today the people of San Jose, CA will 
gather to remember one of their honored 
fallen. 

Pat Tillman was no different than 
any other soldier who served. Those 
who survive Pat Tillman grieve no differently 
than the survivors of any 
other soldier killed in freedom’s cause. 

Yet Pat Tillman embodies to a Nation 
the honor and duty of all those 
who serve in uniform. 

Not every soldier is like Pat Tillman, 
but in each soldier, we find a little of 
the likes of Pat Tillman. 

In my home state of Kentucky, the 
sacrifice for freedom is real and painful 
with the loss of too many fine young 
men. 

On April 7, Staff Sergeant George S. 
Rentschler, 31, of Louisville was lost in 
action with the 1st Armored Division 
in Baghdad. 

Marine Corporal Nicholas Dieruf, 21, 
of Lexington was killed in action in 
Husaybah on April 8. 

Sergeant Major Michael B. Stack, 48, 
of Fort Campbell, serving with the 5th 
Special Forces Group was lost on April 
11 in the al Anbar Province. 

And 1st Lieutenant Robert L. Henderson 
II, 33, of Alvaton, serving with 
the Kentucky National Guard was 
killed in Diwaniyah on April 17. 

Each of these heroes volunteered 
knowing that one day they might be 
called upon for the ultimate sacrifice 
for freedom. 

Like Sergeant Rentschler, Corporal 
Dieruf, Sergeant Major Stack and 
Lieutenant Henderson, Pat Tillman 
heard the call and paid the sacrifice. 

With our fallen Kentucky natives, he 
joins that band of brothers, that noble 
breed of volunteer militia who so long 
ago picked up the musket so that freedom 
might find one sanctuary here on 
Earth. 

Where his forefathers put down their 
hoe in a cornfield, he put down his helmet 
on a football field and walked onto 
the battlefield of freedom. 

In dedicating the final resting place 
of those who died at Gettysburg, President 
Lincoln stated 

But in a large sense we cannot dedicate, we 
cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this 
ground. The brave men, living and dead, who 
struggled here, have consecrated it far above 
our poor power to add or detract. 

President Lincoln concluded: 

It is rather for us to be here dedicated to 
the great task remaining before us—that 
from these honored dead we take increased 
devotion to that cause for which they gave 
their last full measure of devotion; that we 
here highly resolve that these dead shall not 
have died in vain; that this Nation, under 
God, shall have a new birth of freedom; and 
that government of the people, by the people, 
for the people shall not perish from the 
earth. 

Mr. President, the sacrifice of Pat 
Tillman—like all those who serve and 
perish in our Nation’s duty, has consecrated 
the cause of freedom far 
greater than our words could ever do. 

From the last full measure of devotion 
he gave for a new birth of freedom, 
it is we who must dedicate ourselves to 
the unfinished business of government 
of the people, by the people, and for the 
people. 

f 

THE PROPER ROLE OF THE 
UNITED NATIONS IN IRAQ 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, for 
many months the President’s critics 
have asserted the situation in Iraq 
would improve if only the administra


tion would cede control over the reconstruction 
and democratization of Iraq 
to the United Nations. 

While the presumptive Democratic 
nominee, Senator Kerry, has yet to 
offer a detailed plan for Iraq, he has 
made it abundantly clear it involves 
transferring a significant measure of 
authority to the U.N. In fact, on December 
3rd of last year, he noted: 

Our best option for success is to go back to 
the United Nations and leave no doubt that 
we are prepared to put the United Nations in 
charge of the reconstruction and governance-
building processes. I believe the prospects for 
success on the ground will be far greater if 
Ambassador Bremer and the Coalition Provisional 
Authority are replaced by a U.N. Special 
Representative for Iraq. 

The U.N. is an immensely valuable 
organization, and America’s significant 
contributions to the U.N. are a worthwhile 
investment. The U.N. is often the 
only entity that can bring international 
humanitarian relief to needy 
and impoverished societies across the 
globe, and its employees and volunteers 
deserve the highest praise for 
their selfless acts to bring comfort to 
the downtrodden. 

When civil authorities in dysfunctional 
states collapse, the U.N. has 
sometimes averted humanitarian disaster. 
It can bring relief to failed states 
in isolated backwaters of the world 
where the major powers are unlikely to 
intervene themselves. 

The U.N. in such cases plays a critical 
role and deserves our support for 
its important efforts. But the United 
Nations is not a blue-helmeted knight 
here to slay the dragons of aggression 
and evil. When the stakes are high and 
the threat of violence is real, the 
United States is too often helpless in 
the face of danger. 

Before I turn my attention to the 
specific reason that Americans should 
be wary of abandoning Iraq to the 
United Nations, let me dispel a myth 
about the administration’s foreign policy. 


The President’s critics often refer to 
America’s efforts in Iraq as 
unilateralist. This politically expedient 
fix is an insult to the thousands 
of men and women from the 30-plus 
countries who are risking their lives to 
bring peace and democracy to the people 
of Iraq. If the President’s critics 
still believe his policy to be a go-it-
alone approach, let them repeat that 
assertion to the families of the Italian, 
Spanish, Polish, British, Danish, 
Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Thai, Estonian, 
South Korean, Japanese, and Salvadoran 
soldiers and aid workers who 
have given their lives in Iraq. 

Some say United Nations oversight 
in Iraq would confer legitimacy to the 
coalition’s occupation and reconstruction 
of that country. I find that hard to 
believe. Given its role in sustaining the 
Saddam Hussein regime via the alleged 
mismanagement of the Oil for Food 
Program and the refusal to enforce its 
own resolutions, the United Nations is 
not in a position to lend legitimacy to 
a free Iraq. In fact, I think it could be 


S4762 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

argued it would take away legitimacy 
from a free Iraq. The only thing that 
can confer legitimacy in Iraq is a series 
of national elections. However, these 
elections must not occur too soon as 
democracy cannot be turned on at the 
flip of a switch. But they will come in 
due time. If we stay the course, by December 
of next year the Iraqis will 
likely elect the most representative 
government in the Arab world. 

I might say to put that in context it 
was 12 years between the Declaration 
of Independence and the United States 
Constitution being adopted. 

So the Iraqis will have gone from liberation 
to election in under 1,000 days 
and even though we have 24-hour television 
these days, that is still a remarkably 
fast evolution from dictatorship, 
brutal dictatorship to representative 
government. 

The Oil for Food scandal highlights 
another reason we should not rush to 
put the United Nations in charge of 
Iraq’s reconstruction. Although we do 
not yet know the full story, we can 
draw some initial lessons. 

First, an organization that apparently 
so mismanaged the Oil for Food 
Program cannot be trusted to manage 
a $34 billion budget for Iraqi reconstruction. 


Second, the alleged corruption of 
some United Nations officials and 
member states raises a serious concern 
about the U.N.’s commitment to its 
stated mission. Instead of sanctioning 
Saddam Hussein’s regime, a number of 
United Nations officials and foreign 
diplomats may have used the Oil for 
Food Program as a slush fund to enrich 
themselves while allowing profits and 
goods to be diverted away from needy 
Iraqis and toward the Saddam Hussein 
regime. 

Free Iraqis have ample reason to be 
wary of entrusting their future to 
those who allegedly had no qualms 
about doing illicit business with their 
oppressor. 

United Nations control will not stop 
the violence in Iraq. Quite frankly, the 
United Nations is not capable of managing 
the security situation in Iraq. 
Terrorists do not respect blue-helmeted 
peacekeepers because the U.N. has 
proven itself to lack either the firepower 
or the will to quell violent 
uprisings. In Somalia, when Aidid’s 
thugs took to the streets, United Nations 
peacekeepers stayed in camp 
while American troops fought to restore 
order. 

How can we expect United Nations 
forces that fled from Somalia’s untrained 
gangs to confront the professional 
fedayeen and suicidal radicals 
behind this insurgency in Iraq? Few seriously 
believe the U.N. can be trusted 
to provide security for the Iraqi people. 
Indeed, the United Nations has demonstrated 
its inability to provide security 
even for itself. The U.N.’s own 
scathing report on the bombing of its 
headquarters in Baghdad last summer 
documented the culture of complacency 
and poor planning within the 

U.N.’s security forces. The United Nations 
has already cut and run in Iraq in 
the wake of the August bombings of its 
headquarters. How can the Iraqis trust 
the U.N. not to abandon them yet 
again to the lawless insurgents who 
seek to derail the democratic process? 

There is a further problem subjugating 
American foreign policy authority 
to the United Nations Security 
Council. The veto-wielding permanent 
members of the security council were 
chosen because they were simply the 
world’s major powers at the time the 
United Nations was established. It 
therefore does not accurately reflect 
the distribution of world power today, 
and its composition discriminates 
against the current major powers that 
share principles of democracy and of 
freedom. 

For example, Communist China is a 
permanent member, but democratic 
Japan, the world’s second largest economy, 
is not. Newly democratic Russia 
is a member, but neither Canada nor 
Spain, democracies with twice the size 
of Russia’s economy, is a member; nor 
is Italy, with an economy four times as 
large as that of Russia; nor is India, 
the world’s largest democracy. 

Even France, although democratic, 
often has different strategic and political 
interests than the United States. 
As evidenced by the Oil for Food scandal, 
it is possible that France, sometimes 
a more zealous competitor than 
an ally, had a significant financial 
stake in the continuation of the Saddam 
Hussein regime. 

When the security council deliberates, 
there are often too many cooks 
in the kitchen and all of them have different 
tastes. 

If the United Nations takes a larger 
role in Iraq, so too will the general assembly. 
I am not convinced that will be 
a good thing. There are, to be sure, responsible 
nations in the general assembly 
but, frankly, they are few and very 
far between. 

The irony that so many authoritarian 
regimes are represented in such 
a democratic body is often lost on 
American politicians who so desperately 
seek approval of our foreign 
policy from this very body. The general 
assembly, in fact, provides funds for 
despotic member states to pour sand 
onto the clogs of international peace 
and stability. These regimes are 
unremittingly hostile to the United 
States and to democracy, and they will 
continue to exploit their authority at 
the U.N. to halt freedom’s progress. 

Sudan, Syria, and Iran did not oppose 
the liberation of Iraq because they 
wanted to peacefully resolve the growing 
international crisis. They opposed 
the war because they didn’t want to see 
a precedent whereby their own tyrannies 
could be undermined. 

The ability of rogue states to thwart 
the U.N.’s efforts to do the right thing 
is exemplified by the United Nations 
Human Rights Commission whose 
members include—listen to this, the 
United Nations Human Rights Commis


sion whose members include Cuba, 
China, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and 
Sudan, among others. 

Joanna Weschler of Human Rights 
Watch has called the commission a 
rogue’s gallery of human rights abusers—
that is the Commission on Human 
Rights at the United Nations—and correctly 
noted ‘‘an abusive country cannot 
honestly pass judgment on other 
abusive countries.’’ 

So does Senator KERRY really want 
to give these nations a say in Iraq’s future? 
Does he expect them to share 
America’s interest in a free and stable 
Iraq, even though a democratic Iraq 
would undermine their own authoritarian 
rule? Why do some American 
politicians want the fox to guard the 
henhouse? 

If the President’s critics still believe 
that authority in Iraq should be transferred 
to the U.N., then we should have 
waited for the United Nations’ approval 
before liberating Iraq. Let them 
explain to the American people why 
they have such trust in the UN. 

Let them explain why China, France, 
or Russia deserves a veto over U.S. foreign 
policy. 

Let them explain why the very countries 
that allegedly negotiated clandestine 
oil leases with Saddam Hussein deserve 
a say in the reconstruction of 
Iraq. 

Let them explain how an organization 
that cannot manage its own finances 
deserves to manage those of the 
Iraqis. 

Let them explain why an organization 
that cannot provide for its own security 
should be entrusted with stabilizing 
Iraq. There are many things the 
United Nations can do well, but I don’t 
believe managing Iraq’s fragile transition 
to democracy is one of them. I 
wish the United Nations could be helpful 
on issues that are critical to American 
security, but it is unsuited to that 
mission. 

I support the United Nations. I hope 
it can reform itself and prevent the 
worst abusers of human rights from 
sabotaging its laudable efforts to protect 
the rights and dignity of mankind. 
I want the United Nations to play a 
role in Iraq’s reconstruction, and I 
hope it will send humanitarian teams 
and election monitors to assist in 
building democracy on the ruins of tyranny. 


But the United Nations is not a collective 
security organization, and it 
cannot replace America as a defender 
of liberty and democracy in conflicts 
that are important to American security 
because too many of its Members 
share neither our principles nor our interests. 


Entrusting democracy in Iraq to the 
blue-helmeted bureaucrats at the 
United Nations is not a plan, it is a 
fantasy. 

Mr. REID. If the Senator will yield 
the floor for me to make a couple of 
statements. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Nevada. 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4763 

Mr. REID. First of all, Mr. President, 
the quote the Senator from Kentucky 
gave of Abraham Lincoln is one of my 
favorites. I have a little book called ‘‘A 
Book of 100 Poems.’’ In that book, in 
addition to the poem, is the letter 
President Lincoln wrote to Mrs. Bixby. 
It is not a poem but is as beautiful as 
any poem written. 

I have, over the years, taken those 
words, ‘‘assuage the anguish of your 
bereavement’’ and I have used that 
phrase in letters that I write to many 
people who have suffered deaths in 
their families. 

I say to my friend from Kentucky, 
that is a beautiful letter that President 
Lincoln wrote. In my ‘‘Book of 100 
Poems,’’ the letter is copied that he 
wrote in hand to Mrs. Bixby. 

I appreciate the Senator reading that 
most magnificent letter, the words of 
President Lincoln. 

Of course, talking about Pat Tillman 
makes everyone understand a little 
better the sacrifices being made in 
Iraq. 

In response to my friend from Kentucky, 
the distinguished assistant Republican 
leader, in the first war, I 
voted for it. I was the first Democrat 
to announce it publicly. For the first 
President Bush’s excursion into Iraq, 
over 90 percent of the costs of that war 
were borne by other countries. The casualties 
were not all U.S. casualties in 
that first war. 

In this war, more than 90 percent of 
the costs of the war are borne by American 
taxpayers. More than 95 percent of 
the casualties in Iraq are Americans. 
That number is now approaching 800. 
Twenty-one Americans were killed on 
Saturday and Sunday in Iraq. 

My friend, the senior Senator from 
Kentucky, talks disparagingly—whether 
he means to or not—about the 
United Nations. The President cannot 
have it both ways. At his press conference 
he was asked what his plan 
was. He said he was waiting to hear 
from the envoy of the United Nations 
in Iraq. He and his administration continually 
refers to Brahimi as a person 
who is beginning to bring some degree 
of stability to the plan. 

The reason the President answered 
the question that way is the United Nations 
brings some sense of legitimacy 
to what is going on there. More importantly 
than that, if the plan goes forward 
as some anticipate, there would 
be others coming to help. It would take 
the burden off of the U.S. taxpayer and 
especially the men and women of our 
armed services. 

We are bearing a tremendous burden, 
not only with our Regular Army, Navy, 
and Air Force but with our Reserve 
Forces, a tremendous burden on our 
Reserve and Guard. Those, including 
the President, obviously, who refer to 
Mr. Brahimi are thinking about the 
need to cut some slack there to the 
United States. 

The United Nations is an organization 
we helped create. We are the largest 
donor to that organization. It is an 

imperfect organization, I would be the 
first to recognize that. However, it 
must play a role. It is one of the only 
ways that I can see that we can move 
forward with more of the support of the 
American people, which is being lost. 

I voted for the resolution to go to 
Iraq the first time—you have already 
heard me say that—and the second 
time. We cannot cut and run in Iraq. 
We have to do what we have to do to 
bring stability to that very unstable 
part of the world. 

However, let’s not run down the 
United Nations. We need them to help 
bring in others so we do not bear 95 
percent of the casualties and more 
than 90 percent of the costs of what is 
going on there. There are other countries 
there and I appreciate them being 
there, but as far as numbers of troops, 
we have 135,000 troops; the British have 
10,000. The next largest contingency of 
troops we have is hired security 
guards. We need to do better than what 
we are doing in Iraq. This is not in any 
way to take away from the valor of the 
men and women serving in that country. 


Just last night, somebody lobbed a 
mortar shell into a military compound 
there. The soldiers are running around 
thinking that is all of it and in comes 
another one and kills five or six of 
them. These soldiers, these servicemen 
of ours serving in Iraq, every minute of 
every day are fearing for their lives, 
whether they are carrying a gun or 
driving a truck. We need to have this 
matter resolved in a way that is not 
happening now. 

I cannot give a blueprint of what 
needs to be done, but I am grateful the 
President is recognizing Mr. Brahimi 
can do some good there. That may not 
be the only answer, but it is an answer. 
I hope we can move forward in this 
matter and bring peace and stability to 
an area that needs it. I recognize if we 
could bring peace and stability to Iraq, 
it would help the whole Middle East. If 
we could help establish a democracy in 
Iraq, it would add to the democracy we 
already have in that area, Israel. It 
could set a system where other countries 
would have to focus on how they 
treat their people. I am all in favor of 
our bringing about a better situation 
in Iraq than certainly existed under 
the regime of Saddam Hussein. 

I appreciate the comments of my colleague 
from Kentucky. I know his 
heart is in the right place. Hopefully, 
we can join in moving forward on this 
most important issue. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Kentucky. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
had not come to the floor to debate my 
good friend from Nevada, but let me 
add a couple of words before we adjourn. 


I certainly agree with him, we need 
more forces in Iraq. Where they need to 
come from is from the Iraqi people. 
General Petraeus, the Commander of 
the famed 101st Airborne who took that 
unit into Iraq and stationed it in 

northern Iraq around Mosul for about a 
year, has now been given his next assignment. 
His next assignment is to go 
back to Iraq—and he is there now—to 
help the Iraqi people develop a military 
that can deal with the threat. 

In the end, the area will be secure 
only if the Iraqi military and Iraqi police 
have both the skill and the desire 
to protect their country from these 
terrorists. 

So, far from hoping we will get additional 
troops from around the world, 
even though we have 20,000 troops there 
from other countries now, the key to 
additional military in Iraq is in Iraq 
itself—Iraqi soldiers, well trained, 
fighting for their own country. And 
that training is well underway under 
the skilled leadership of General 
Petraeus. 

With regard to the U.N., I readily 
concede there are a few things they can 
do well. They can put on elections. 
They can hand out humanitarian aid. 
But they do not have an army. And 
they are discredited in Iraq because of 
their involvement in the oil-for-food 
scandal which robbed Iraqis, for 10 
years, of the opportunity to eat while 
this deal was enriching Saddam Hussein 
and his henchmen. 

So the U.N. does not have a great 
reputation in Iraq, with good reason. 
We hope the U.N. will be able to play a 
useful role in moving Iraq from where 
it is today to a representative government, 
where it will be by the end of 
2005. 

f 

SPACE DAY 2004 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I rise today 
to congratulate Mervin Iverson Elementary 
School’s Erin Berkey, Sarah 
Boyer, and Carissa Buckley on their selection 
as one of the 18 Stellar Design 
Challenges teams for Space Day 2004. I 
also want to recognize their teacher 
Katheryn Grimes for her strong instruction 
and guidance of the student 
team. 
Space Day is an international celebration 
of the accomplishments and opportunities 
of space exploration aimed 
at promoting student interest in math, 
science, and technology. It reaches 
hundreds of thousands of teachers and 
millions of students around the world. 
Developed by the Challenger Center 
for Space Science Education, Design 
Challenges is a national competition 
that encourages students to create innovative 
solutions to the challenges of 
space exploration. The 18 Stellar Design 
Challenges teams were selected 
from more than 300 teams who participated 
in the competition. 
The Iverson Elementary School team 
designed a tool to help explorers on Europa, 
one of Jupiter’s moons. The tool 
is designed to drill into ice ridges on 
Europa that have already been discovered 
by the NASA spacecraft Galileo. 
The remotely operated tool would 
also collect samples of ice and water, 
analyze their chemical compositions, 
measure temperatures of the surface 


S4764 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

ice and hypothesized ocean water underneath, 
and relay this data back to 
Earth. The team’s project included 
scale drawings of the tool, and a 
science fiction story highlighting the 
tool being used by explorers on Europa. 

As a Stellar Design Challenges Team, 
the Iverson students will attend the 
national Space Day 2004 ceremony and 
meet former Senator John Glenn and 
NASA Administrator Sean O’Keefe. 
They will also have the opportunity to 
share their knowledge by displaying 
their project to more than 1,200 sixth 
graders in the Washington, DC, area on 
Space Day. 

Their efforts reflect a lot of hard 
work, dedication and creativity as well 
as Iverson Elementary School’s strong 
commitment to academic excellence. 
Please join me in congratulating 
Iverson Elementary School and its 
Stellar Design Challenges team on 
their impressive accomplishment. 

f 

100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 
AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I congratulate 
the American Lung Association as 
it celebrates its centennial year. 

The American Lung Association, established 
in 1904 as the National Association 
for the Study and Prevention of 
Tuberculosis, was the first nationwide, 
voluntary health organization aimed at 
conquering a specific disease. 

While still committed to its initial 
cause, the Lung Association has expanded 
its research, education, and advocacy 
to combat other challenges to 
the respiratory health of the American 
people. 

In the 1950s, the ALA realized that it 
was becoming increasingly difficult to 
concentrate on the eradication of tuberculosis 
without paying attention to 
other related illnesses. So it expanded 
its program goals to include the elimination 
of all forms of lung disease and 
their causes. 

In 1960, long before the dangers of 
smoking were understood, the ALA established 
a link between cigarette 
smoking and lung cancer. It subsequently 
began an aggressive campaign 
to educate the public—especially 
young people and those with chronic 
respiratory disease—about the hazards 
of cigarette smoking. 

In the 1970s, the ALA sought to reduce 
the harmful effects of air pollution 
and played a major role in the 
adoption of the landmark Clean Air 
Act. 

More recently, the ALA has 
partnered with schools to provide education 
programs for children with asthma 
and public information campaigns 
to prevent smoking among America’s 
youth. 

Today, more than 35 million Americans 
are living with chronic lung disease, 
and every year, close to 344,000 
Americans die of lung disease, making 
it the Nation’s No. 3 killer. 

In Nevada, which has one of the highest 
rates of lung cancer in the Nation, 

nearly 1,300 people died of the disease 
last year, and another 1,500 new cases 
were diagnosed. These numbers underscore 
the importance of the ALA’s goal 
of a world free of lung disease. 

I salute the thousands of volunteers 
and staff of the American Lung Association 
for their tireless work in fighting 
lung disease over the last century, 
and extend my best wishes for a successful 
future. 

f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

20TH ANNIVERSARY OF PUBLIC 

SERVICE RECOGNITION WEEK 
S Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, today 
marks the beginning of Public Service 
Recognition Week, which has been 
celebrated annually since 1985. It is a 
time in which we honor the hundreds of 
thousands of public servants who perform 
the essential services that Americans 
depend on every day. 

This year marks the 20th anniversary 
of this event, and I thank my colleagues 
for their support in passing, 
under unanimous consent, legislation I 
introduced to commend public servants 
for their dedication and continued 
service to the Nation during Public 
Service Recognition Week. The resolution, 
which was cosponsored by the 
leadership of the Senate Governmental 
Affairs Committee, Senators COLLINS, 
LIEBERMAN, FITZGERALD, DURBIN, 
VOINOVICH, LEVIN, and COLEMAN, as 
well as Senator MURRAY, the ranking 
member of the Transportation, Treasury, 
and General Government Appropriations 
Subcommittee, was introduced 
on April 8, 2004. 

Public Service Recognition Week 
provides us with an opportunity to acknowledge 
the work that public servants 
perform and their commitment to 
community and country. The work 
they do affects all of us. Public servants 
include teachers, members of the 
Armed Forces, civilian defense workers, 
postal employees, food inspectors, 
law enforcement officers, firemen, social 
workers, crossing guards, and road 
engineers. 

These men and women are the backbone 
of what makes America great. 
They deserve our respect and gratitude; 
and yet for too long, public servants 
have not been given the recognition 
they deserve. We must do all we 
can to foster a better understanding of 
public service among all Americans 
and promote public service as an option 
for young people. As a former educator, 
I believe it is time to call on a 
new generation of Americans to consider 
public service, which is why I am 
pleased that some schools are now requiring 
a period of public service in 
order to graduate. 

The Federal Government should be 
viewed as an employer of choice, not as 
a safe harbor in times of economic 
weakness. But to attract, retain, and 
train the best and the brightest, Federal 
agencies must have adequate fund


ing for Federal employee incentive programs, 
such as the repayment of student 
loans. I call on my colleagues to 
ensure that Congress plays an active 
role in supporting the Federal workforce. 
Eliminating funding for these 
programs does not benefit Federal employees 
or the ultimate end user: the 
American taxpayer. 

In closing, I wish to pay particular 
attention to the men and women who 
serve in our Armed Forces and the civilian 
employees who support military 
missions. All are key to the security 
and defense of our Nation. From the 
war against terrorism to the ongoing 
conflict in Iraq, our military and civilian 
support staff show courage in the 
face of adversity. As with the country’s 
Armed Forces, Federal employees are 
ready, willing, and able to make the 
world safe. 

As we begin Public Service Recognition 
Week, I ask my colleagues to join 
me in saluting our Nation’s public 
servants and thanking them for the 
jobs they do.S 

f 

NATIONAL TIRE SAFETY WEEK 

S Mr. DEWINE. Mr. President, today 
I wish to talk about tire safety. Just 
last week, we recognized National Tire 
Safety Week. Now in its third year, National 
Tire Safety Week is sponsored 
by the Rubber Manufacturers Association, 
and supported by numerous other 
organizations, to help educate consumers 
about the importance of tire 
safety. 

Combined with safer roads and more 
responsible drivers, improved vehicle 
safety is essential to help reduce the 
tragic number of motor vehicle injuries 
and fatalities that occur each year. 
Tire pressure and tread depth are critical 
safety components of any automobile. 
Under-inflated tires and worn 
or damaged tread can cause tire blowouts 
and hydroplaning—both of which 
can lead to devastating accidents on 
our highways. The Rubber Manufacturers 
Association estimates that only 15 
percent of drivers properly check their 
tire pressure, and only 30 percent of all 
drivers know how to tell when their 
tires are ‘‘bald.’’ Tire safety week is an 
important means to improve these 
numbers. 

The goal of National Tire Safety 
Week is to raise public awareness of 
tire safety and provide consumers with 
simple, common sense, and inexpensive 
ways to help increase the safety of 
their tires and vehicles. Consumers can 
greatly maximize the safety of their 
vehicles by properly checking tire pressure, 
maintaining proper alignment 
and rotation of their tires, and replacing 
worn tires. These simple procedures 
can greatly reduce an individual’s risk 
of a motor vehicle accident—and in 
some cases, save lives. 

I thank the Rubber Manufacturers 
Association, as well as tire and auto 
service dealers and innovators in the 
tire safety community for participating 
in this important week and for 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4765 

their sustained effort to increase automobile 
safety. I also encourage them to 
continue their significant progress on 
the development of safer tires and improved 
consumer awareness. Working 
together, we can all enhance tire safety 
and save lives.S 

f 

WE THE PEOPLE CIVIC EDUCATION 

PROGRAM 
S Mr. DODD. Mr. President, today, and 
over the weekend, more than 1,200 students 
from across the United States 
came to Washington to take part in the 
national finals of ‘‘We the People: The 
Citizen and the Constitution,’’ the 
most extensive educational program in 
the country developed to educate our 
youth about the Constitution and the 
Bill of Rights. Administered by the 
Center for Civic Education, the We the 
People program is funded by the U.S. 
Department of Education through the 
No Child Left behind Act, passed into 
law just 2 years ago. 

I am proud to announce that a group 
of students from Trumbull, CT are in 
our Nation’s Capital to represent my 
home State in this prestigious national 
event. These outstanding students, 
through their knowledge of the U.S. 
Constitution, won their statewide competition 
and earned the chance to come 
to Washington and compete at the national 
level. 

Modeled after hearings in Congress, 
the ‘‘We the People National Finals 
Competition’’ gives students an opportunity 
to demonstrate their knowledge 
of the Constitution and Bill of Rights 
before a panel of adult judges. Students 
evaluate, take and defend constitutional 
positions on relevant historical 
and contemporary issues, and are subject 
to a barrage of questions designed 
to further probe their depth of understanding 
as it relates to our ‘‘founding 
documents.’’ 

Last year, Russell Berg, a student 
from Trumbull, testified at a Congressional 
hearing on civic education mentioning 
his participation in the ‘‘We 
the People’’ program. Russell said that 
civic education ‘‘is the key to comprehending, 
appreciating and eventually 
participating in our democratic process.’’ 
I could not think of a greater endorsement 
for civic education in our 
schools. Clearly, an understanding of 
history and civics is critical to our 
ability as a nation to continue as a 
thriving, functioning democracy. 

Our Constitution is a great document, 
but it is neither a simple nor 
self-implementing one. For it to work, 
it requires an educated populace, and a 
populace that understands that American 
citizenship brings with it both 
great benefits and great responsibility. 
If we want to ensure that our society 
remains faithful to democracy, and its 
underlying ideals, we must teach our 
children what those ideals are. ‘‘We the 
People’’ does just that. 

I applaud the achievements of all the 
students who qualified for this year’s 
competition and all of those students 

who participated in local and State 
rounds of competition. We should all be 
proud that these students are learning 
and advocating the fundamental ideals 
that identify us as a people and bind us 
together as a nation.S 

f 

HONORING THE LIFE OF 

JEREMIAH GUMBS 
S Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I rise 
today to publicly pay tribute to Jeremiah 
Gumbs. Jeremiah Gumbs was a 
patriot of both the United States and 
Anguilla, West Indies. Gumbs served in 
the U.S. Army in World War II and was 
a successful businessman in New Jersey, 
owning Gumbs Fuelers. He went 
back to his native Anguilla, opened a 
popular resort on beautiful Rendezvous 
Bay, and helped Anguilla become less 
dependent on Britain. Jeremiah and his 
wife Lydia educated their four children 
in the U.S. 

I am pleased to submit for the 
RECORD, Jeremiah Gumbs obituary of 
his remarkable life, which appeared in 
the New York Times on April 10, 2004: 

Jeremiah Gumbs, a hotel keeper who became 
a hero in Anguilla when that sliver of 
sand upended Britain’s postcolonial design 
for the Caribbean islands known as the Lesser 
Antilles, died there on Thursday, his family 
announced. He was 91. 

Mr. Gumbs, an institution on an island 
that today has a population of 
12,000 people, reached a world audience 
in 1967 when he went before the United 
Nations with the islanders’ objections 
to a British plan that lumped Anguilla’s 
35 square miles into a self-governing 
state, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, 
associated with Britain. 

Considering the 70 miles of blue 
waters between Anguilla, the northernmost 
of the Leeward Islands, and the 
new authorities in St. Kitts, not to 
mention the many different flags that 
flew on the islands in between, such as 
St. Martin and St. Barthelemy, the 
Anguillans balked. 

‘‘After 300 years of neglect as a British 
Colony,’’ Mr. Gumbs told the 
United Nations, ‘‘the people feel they 
are able to take care of their own affairs.’’ 
Indeed, he said Anguillans wanted 
independence. 

The people of Anguilla voted for it, 
1,813 to 5, but Britain did not recognize 
either the referendum or Mr. Gumbs as 
a leader of the secessionist movement. 
But a special United Nations subcommittee 
on colonialism listened to 
his formal arguments for Anguilla. 

It was a ‘‘natural paradise,’’ Mr. 
Gumbs said of the island, but had been 
left undeveloped under British rule, 
without running water, electricity, 
phones, or a decent road. A new highway, 
built with European aid, has recently 
been named for Mr. Gumbs. 

The British protested United Nations 
involvement, while other Caribbean 
commonwealth islands sought to mediate. 


Britain asserted that the island was 
‘‘completely dominated by a gangster-
type element,’’ referring to Mr. Gumbs 

and the chosen leader of the rebellion, 
James Ronald Webster. It sent a troop 
of London’s Metropolitan Police force 
to keep order and stop the secession 
movement. 

But efforts to patch the link to St. 
Kitts failed. In the end, Anguilla got 
part of what it wanted, becoming a 
self-governing British dependent territory 
with its own elected officials, an 
arrangement codified in 1971 and 
brought up to date with Anguilla’s new 
constitution in 1982. 

Jeremiah Gumbs was born in Anguilla, 
the youngest of nine children; 
his mother was a baker and his father, 
a fisherman. He started school in Anguilla, 
but economic hardship drove 
him as a boy to work the cane fields in 
the Dominican Republic. Starting at 
age 15, he worked for 2 years in oil refineries 
in Aruba and Curacao before 
returning to Anguilla to teach himself 
tailoring. 

At age 25, he went to live with a sister 
in Brooklyn and took night classes 
at City College on a scholarship. He 
hoped to become a dentist, but was 
drafted into the Army in 1941 and was 
given American citizenship at the 
time. 

After the war, he married Lydia 
Gibbs of Perth Amboy, NJ, and, using 
his G.I. bill money, trained as a furnace 
installer. He started his own company 
in Perth Amboy, Gumbs Fuelers, 
and made a success of it. 

When he took Lydia to show her Anguilla, 
it was she who planted the idea 
for another venture-tourism on the island’s 
untouched beaches. They bought 
14 acres, later doubling the amount, 
and in 1959 started building Anguilla’s 
first beach resort with their own hands. 

They rented the first rooms in 1962, 
opening what has become the Rendezvous 
Bay Hotel and Villas, a cornerstone 
of the island’s growing tourism 
industry. As a businessman with local 
roots and a civic leader acquainted 
with the ways of the world, Jeremiah 
Gumbs became a natural choice to 
serve as the island’s roving ambassador 
during the Anguillan revolution of 
1967–1969. 

He managed the hotel until about 5 
years ago and remained a jovial host 
after that. Lydia Gumbs died about 3 
years ago. Jeremiah Gumbs is survived 
by three sons, J. Alan, the managing 
director and owner of the Rendezvous 
Bay; Clyde, of Atlanta; and Duane, of 
Edison, NJ; a daughter, Una, of Edison 
and Anguilla; and seven grandchildren. 

It is my honor to share Jeremiah 
Gumbs impressive life with my colleagues.
S 

f 

MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 
Messages from the President of the 
United States were communicated to 
the Senate by Mr. Williams, one of his 
secretaries. 

f 

EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED 
As in executive session the Presiding 
Officer laid before the Senate messages 


S4766 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

from the President of the United 
States submitting sundry nominations 
which were referred to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

(The nominations received today are 
printed at the end of the Senate proceedings.) 


f 

MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE 
DURING ADJOURNMENT 

ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED 

Under authority of the order of the 
Senate of January 7, 2003, the Secretary 
of the Senate, on April 30, 2004, 
during the adjournment of the Senate, 
received a message from the House of 
Representatives announcing that the 
Speaker has signed the following enrolled 
bills: 

S. 1904. An act to designate the United 
States courthouse located at 400 North 
Miami Avenue in Miami, Florida, as the 
‘‘Wilkie D. Ferguson, Jr. United States 
Courthouse’’. 
S. 2043. An act to designate a Federal 
building in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, as the 
‘‘Ronald Reagan Federal Building’’. 
H.R. 4219. An act to provide an extension of 
highway, highway safety, motor carrier safety, 
transit, and other programs funded out of 
the Highway Trust Fund pending enactment 
of a law reauthorizing the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st Century. 
Under the authority of the order of 
January 7, 2003, the enrolled bills were 
signed by the President pro tempore 
(Mr. STEVENS) during the adjournment 
of the Senate, on April 30, 2004. 

f 

MEASURES PLACED ON THE 
CALENDAR 

The following bills were read the second 
time, and placed on the calendar. 

H.R. 4181. To amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to permanently extend the marriage 
penalty relief provided under the Economic 
Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation 
Act of 2001. 
S. 2370. A bill to amend the Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938 to provide for an increase 
in the Federal minimum wage. 
f 

ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED 

The Secretary of the Senate reported 
that on April 30, 2004, she had presented 
to the President of the United States 
the following enrolled bills: 

S. 1904. an act to designate the United 
States courthouse located at 400 North 
Miami Avenue in Miami, Florida, as the 
‘‘Wilkie D. Ferguson, Jr. United States 
Courthouse’’. 
S. 2043. An act to designate a Federal 
building in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, as the 
‘‘Ronald Reagan Federal Building’’. 
f 

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
and were referred as indicated: 

EC–7296. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Serv


ice, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Sweet Onions in the Walla Walla Valley 
of Southeast Washington and Northeast 
Oregon; Establishment of Special Purpose 
Shipping Regulations and Modifications of 
Reporting Requirements’’ (Doc. No. FV04– 
956–1) received on April 29, 2004; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–7297. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Milk in the Northeast and Other Marketing 
Orders—Interim Orders’’ (Doc. No. 
AO–14–A72) received on April 29, 2004; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry. 

EC–7298. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Pistachios Grown in California; Order 
Regulating Handling’’ (Doc. No. AO–F&V– 
983–2) received on April 29, 2004; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–7299. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Cranberries Grown in the States of 
Massachusetts, et al.; Order Amending Marketing 
Agreement and Order No. 929’’ (Doc. 
No. AO–341–46) received on April 29, 2004; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–7300. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Nectarines and Peaches Grown in 
California; Revision of Handling Requirements 
for Fresh Nectarines and Peaches’’ 
(Doc. No. FV04–916/917–02) received on April 
29, 2004; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–7301. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Almonds Grown in California; Decreased 
Assessment Rate’’ (Doc. No. FV04– 
981–1) received on April 29, 2004; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–7302. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Raisins Produced from Grapes Grown 
in California; Final Free and Reserve Percentages 
for 2003–04 Crop Natural (sun-dried) 
Seedless Raisins’’ (Doc. No. FV04–989–1) received 
on April 29, 2004; to the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–7303. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Grapes Grown in a Designated Area 
of Southeastern California; Establishment or 
Reporting Requirements’’ (Doc. No. FV0–925– 

1) received on April 29 , 2004; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 
EC–7304. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Melons Grown in South Texas; Increased 
Assessment Rate’’ (Doc. No. FV04– 
979–1) received on April 29, 2004; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–7305. A communication from the Assistant 
Director for Executive and Political Per


sonnel, Department of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a nomination 
for the position of Deputy Under Secretary 
of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, 
received on April 29, 2004; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–7306. A communication from the Assistant 
Director for Executive and Political Personnel, 
Department of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a nomination 
for the position of Under Secretary of 
the Navy, Department of Defense, received 
on April 29, 2004; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–7307. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, 
and Logistics, Department of Defense, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the Evolved Launch Vehicle 
major defense acquisition program; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–7308. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, 
Department of Defense, transmitting, 
the report of a retirement; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–7309. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, 
Department of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a retirement; 
to the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–7310. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Federal Trade Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘16 CFR Part 305—Rule Concerning 
Disclosures Regarding Energy Consumption 
and Water Use of Certain Home 
Appliances and Other Products Required 
Under the Energy Policy and Conservation 
Act’’ (RIN3084–AA74) received on April 29, 
2004; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7311. A communication from the Chief 
Counsel, St. Lawrence Seaway Development 
Corporation, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Tariff of Tolls’’ (RIN2135– 
AA19) received on April 29, 2004; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–7312. A communication from the Trial 
Attorney, National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Confidential Business 
Information’’ (RIN2127–AJ24) received on 
April 29, 2004; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7313. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant Secretary for Communications and 
Information, National Telecommunications 
and Information Administration, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Technology 
Opportunities Program’’ received on 
April 29, 2004; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7314. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, National 
Marine Fisheries Service, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Notice of Guideline Harvest Level for 
the Guided Sport Halibut Fishery’’ received 
on April 29, 2004; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7315. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Fish, Wildlife, and Parks, 
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the 
Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safe Harbor Agreements 
and Candidate Conservation Agreements 
with Assurances; Revisions to the 
Regulations’’ (RIN1018–AI85) received on 
April 29, 2004; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–7316. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant Secretary, Land and Minerals 
Management, Department of the Interior, 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4767 

transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations 
in the Outer Continental Shelf—Relief 
or Reduction in Royalty Rates—Deep 
Gas Provisions’’ (RIN101–AD01) received on 
April 29, 2004; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–7317. A communication from the Deputy 
Associate Administrator, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Comprehensive 
Procurement Guideline IV for 
Procurement of Products Containing Recovered 
Materials’’ (FRL#7655–2) received on 
April 29, 2004; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–7318. A communication from the Deputy 
Associate Administrator, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Educational 
Outreach and Baseline Assessment 
of Existing Exposure and Risks of Exposure 
to Lead Poisoning of Tribal Children; Notice 
of Funds Availability’’ (FRL#7351–5) received 
on April 29, 2004; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–7319. A communication from the Deputy 
Associate Administrator, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Health 
and Safety Data Reporting; Addition of Certain 
Chemicals’’ (FRL#7322–8) received on 
April 29, 2004; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–7320. A communication from the Acting 
Chief, Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Stock Basis After a Group Structure 
Change’’ (RIN1545–BC28) received on April 29, 
2004; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7321. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
the Arms Export Control Act, the certification 
of a proposed license for the manufacture 
and export of defense articles or defense 
services sold commercially under a contract 
in the amount of $25,000,000 or more to 
Japan; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–7322. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Neurological Devices; Technical 
Amendment’’ received on April 27, 2004; to 
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
and Pensions. 

EC–7323. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Biological Products; 
Bacterial Vaccines Toxoids; Implementation 
of Efficacy Review; Correction’’ (Doc. No. 
1980N–0208) received on April 27, 2004; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–7324. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Medical Devices: Cardiovascular 
Devices: Reclassification of Arrhythmia 
Detector and Alarm; Correction’’ 
(Doc. No. 1980N–0208) received on April 27, 
2004; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

f 

EXECUTIVE REPORT OF 
COMMITTEE (REPRINT) 

The following executive report of 
Foreign Relations Committee was submitted 
on Thursday, April 29, 2004: 

*Scott H. DeLisi, of Minnesota, a Career 
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class 

of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary 
and Plenipotentiary of the United 
States of America to the State of Eritrea. 

(The following is a list of all members of 
my immediate family and their spouses. I 
have asked each of these persons to inform 
me of the pertinent contributions made by 
them. To the best of my knowledge the information 
contained in this report is complete 
and accurate.) 

Nominee: Scott H. DeLisi. 

Post: Eritrea. 

Contributions, Amount, Date, and Donee: 

1. Self: 0. 

2. Spouse: 0. 

3. Children and Spouses: 0. 
4. Parents: Joseph S. DeLisi, 0; Gloria A. 
DeLisi, 0. 
5. Grandparents: Deceased prior to 1999. 
6. Brothers and Spouses: 0. 
7. Sisters and Spouses: 0. 
f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. HATCH: 

S. 2375. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to allow penalty-free withdrawals 
from retirement plans during the period 
that a military reservist or national 
guardsman is called to active duty for an extended 
period, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Finance. 
f 

SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND 
SENATE RESOLUTIONS 

The following concurrent resolutions 
and Senate resolutions were read, and 
referred (or acted upon), as indicated: 

By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Mr. 
ALLEN, Mr. BUNNING, Mr. CORNYN, 
Mr. CRAPO, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. 
FITZGERALD, Mr. HATCH, Mr. LOTT, 
Mr. MILLER, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. 
SPECTER, Mr. ENSIGN, Mr. COCHRAN, 
Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. BURNS, Mr. BYRD, 
Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. DOMENICI, Mr. 
LEVIN, and Mr. SANTORUM): 

S. Res. 348. A resolution to protect, promote, 
and celebrate motherhood; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself and 
Mr. ROBERTS): 

S. Con. Res. 102. A concurrent resolution to 
express the sense of the Congress regarding 
the 50th anniversary of the Supreme Court 
decision in Brown v. Board of Education of 
Topeka; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 68 

At the request of Mr. INOUYE, the 
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 68, a bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to improve benefits for 
Filipino veterans of World War II, and 
for other purposes. 

S. 640 
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
NELSON) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
640, a bill to amend subchapter III of 
chapter 83 and chapter 84 of title 5, 
United States Code, to include Federal 
prosecutors within the definition of a 

law enforcement officer, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 950 

At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name 
of the Senator from Maine (Ms. COLLINS) 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 
950, a bill to allow travel between the 
United States and Cuba. 

S. 976 

At the request of Mr. WARNER, the 
name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. THOMAS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 976, a bill to provide for the 
issuance of a coin to commemorate the 
400th anniversary of the Jamestown 
settlement. 

S. 1197 

At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name 
of the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. 
PRYOR) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1197, a bill to amend the Public Health 
Service Act to ensure the safety and 
accuracy of medical imaging examina


tions and radiation therapy treatments. 
S. 1335 

At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. LAUTENBERG) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1335, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow 
individuals a deduction for qualified 
long-term care insurance premiums, 
use of such insurance under cafeteria 
plans and flexible spending arrangements, 
and a credit for individuals with 
long-term care needs. 

S. 1368 

At the request of Mr. LEVIN, the 
names of the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. ALLEN) and the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mrs. LINCOLN) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1368, a bill to authorize 
the President to award a gold medal on 
behalf of the Congress to Reverend 
Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr. (posthumously) 
and his widow Coretta Scott 
King in recognition of their contributions 
to the Nation on behalf of the 
civil rights movement. 

S. 1380 

At the request of Mr. SMITH, the 
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr. 
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1380, a bill to distribute universal service 
support equitably throughout rural 
America, and for other purposes. 

S. 1381 

At the request of Ms. SNOWE, the 
name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. COCHRAN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1381, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify certain 
provisions relating to the treatment 
of forestry activities. 

S. 1557 

At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL, 
the name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a 
cosponsor of S. 1557, a bill to authorize 
the extension of nondiscriminatory 
treatment (normal trade relations 
treatment) to the products of Armenia. 

S. 1645 

At the request of Mr. CRAIG, the 
name of the Senator from West Virginia 
(Mr. ROCKEFELLER) was added as 


S4768 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

a cosponsor of S. 1645, a bill to provide 
for the adjustment of status of certain 
foreign agricultural workers, to amend 
the Immigration and Nationality Act 
to reform the H–2A worker program 
under that Act, to provide a stable, 
legal agricultural workforce, to extend 
basic legal protections and better 
working conditions to more workers, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 1773 
At the request of Mr. SANTORUM, the 
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
HATCH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1773, a bill to permit biomedical research 
corporations to engage in certain 
equity financings without incurring 
limitations on net operating loss 
carryforwards and certain built-in 
losses, and for other purposes. 
S. 1889 
At the request of Mrs. LINCOLN, the 
name of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. PRYOR) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1889, a bill to amend titles XIX 
and XXI of the Social Security Act to 
permit States to cover low-income 
youth up to age 23 with an enhanced 
matching rate. 
S. 1909 
At the request of Mr. COCHRAN, the 
names of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. BOXER), the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. BUNNING), the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. CARPER), the Senator 
from New Jersey (Mr. CORZINE), the 
Senator from Minnesota (Mr. DAYTON) 
and the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. 
LAUTENBERG) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1909, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act to improve stroke 
prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and 
rehabilitation. 
S. 2065 
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the 
name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KERRY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2065, a bill to restore 
health care coverage to retired members 
of the uniformed services, and for 
other purposes. 
S. 2166 
At the request of Mrs. BOXER, the 
name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KERRY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2166, a bill to amend title 
10, United States Code, to exempt abortions 
of pregnancies in cases of rape 
and incest from a limitation on use of 
Department of Defense funds. 
S. 2192 
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2192, a bill to amend title 35, 
United States Code, to promote cooperative 
research involving universities, 
the public sector, and private enterprises. 
S. 2212 
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the 
names of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. SPECTER) and the Senator 
from Alabama (Mr. SESSIONS) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2212, a bill to 
amend title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 

to provide that the provisions relating 
to countervailing duties apply to non-
market economy countries. 

S. 2237 

At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2237, a bill to amend chapter 
5 of title 17, United States Code, to authorize 
civil copyright enforcement by 
the Attorney General, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 2275 

At the request of Ms. MIKULSKI, the 
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
SMITH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2275, a bill to amend the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et seq.) 
to provide for homeland security assistance 
for high-risk nonprofit organizations, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 2292 

At the request of Mr. VOINOVICH, the 
names of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KERRY), the Senator from 
Maine (Ms. COLLINS), the Senator from 
Alaska (Mr. STEVENS) and the Senator 
from New Jersey (Mr. LAUTENBERG) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2292, a 
bill to require a report on acts of anti-
Semitism around the world. 

S. 2309 

At the request of Mr. DORGAN, the 
name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. SHELBY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2309, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for a 
refundable wage differential credit for 
activated military reservists. 

S. 2311 

At the request of Ms. SNOWE, the 
name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
REID) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2311, a bill to provide for various energy 
efficiency programs and tax incentives, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 2321 

At the request of Mr. BYRD, the 
names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. BAUCUS) and the Senator from 
Wisconsin (Mr. FEINGOLD) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 2321, a bill to amend 
title 32, United States Code, to rename 
the National Guard Challenge Program 
and to increase the maximum Federal 
share of the costs of State programs 
under that program, and for other purposes. 


S.J. RES. 30 

At the request of Mr. ALLARD, the 
name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. COCHRAN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S.J. Res. 30, a joint resolution 
proposing an amendment to the Constitution 
of the United States relating 
to marriage. 

S.J. RES. 34 

At the request of Mrs. DOLE, her 
name was added as a cosponsor of S.J. 
Res. 34, a joint resolution designating 
May 29, 2004, on the occasion of the 
dedication of the National World War 
II Memorial, as Remembrance of World 
War II Veterans Day. 

S.J. RES. 36 
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the 
names of the Senator from California 

(Mrs. BOXER) and the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY) were 
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 36, a 
joint resolution approving the renewal 
of import restrictions contained in 
Burmese Freedom and Democracy Act 
of 2003. 

At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL, 
the names of the Senator from Alaska 
(Mr. STEVENS) and the Senator from 
Nebraska (Mr. HAGEL) were added as 
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 36, supra. 

S. CON. RES. 90 
At the request of Mr. LEVIN, the 
names of the Senator from Rhode Island 
(Mr. REED) and the Senator from 
Maryland (Mr. SARBANES) were added 
as cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 90, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the Sense 
of the Congress regarding negotiating, 
in the United States-Thailand Free 
Trade Agreement, access to the United 
States automobile industry. 

S. CON. RES. 99 
At the request of Mr. BROWNBACK, the 
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
GRAHAM), the Senator from Indiana 
(Mr. LUGAR) and the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mr. ALEXANDER) were added as 
cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 99, a concurrent 
resolution condemning the Government 
of the Republic of the Sudan 
for its participation and complicity in 
the attacks against innocent civilians 
in the impoverished Darfur region of 
western Sudan. 

S. CON. RES. 100 
At the request of Mr. ALEXANDER, the 
name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Mr. COLEMAN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Con. Res. 100, a concurrent 
resolution celebrating 10 years of majority 
rule in the Republic of South Africa 
and recognizing the momentous 
social and economic achievements of 
South Africa since the institution of 
democracy in that country. 

S. RES. 198 

At the request of Mr. BROWNBACK, the 
name of the Senator from Wisconsin 
(Mr. FEINGOLD) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Res. 198, a resolution expressing 
sympathy for the victims of the 
devastating earthquake that struck Algeria 
on May 21, 2003. 

S. RES. 269 

At the request of Mr. LEVIN, the 
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
LUGAR) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 269, a resolution urging the Government 
of Canada to end the commercial 
seal hunt that opened on November 
15, 2003. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2649 

At the request of Mr. BAYH, the 
names of the Senator from North Carolina 
(Mrs. DOLE), the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. SPECTER) and the 
Senator from Alabama (Mr. SESSIONS) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 2649 intended to be proposed 
to S. 1637, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to comply with 
the World Trade Organization rulings 
on the FSC/ETI benefit in a manner 
that preserves jobs and production activities 
in the United States, to reform 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4769 

and simplify the international taxation 
rules of the United States, and for 
other purposes. 

f 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mr. HATCH: 

S. 2375. a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to allow penalty-
free withdrawals from retirement plans 
during the period that a military reservist 
or national guardsman is called 
to active duty for an extended period, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Finance. 
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I rise 
today to introduce legislation to allow 
penalty-free withdrawals from retirement 
plans during the period that a 
military reservist or a National 
Guardsman is called to active duty. 
Specifically, the provision would allow 
individuals who are called to active 
duty for at least 179 days between September 
11, 2001, and September 15, 2005, 
to avoid the 10-percent penalty tax 
that is normally imposed on early distributions. 


This bill passed the House of Representatives 
by unanimous consent 
late last month, and it is my hope that 
this important and appropriate legislation 
will receive the same resounding 
support by my colleagues in the Senate. 


Nearly 3,000 reservists and Guard 
members from my home State of Utah 
have been called to active duty and are 
currently stationed in the Persian Gulf 
and Afghanistan. I believe it is safe to 
say that when many of these brave 
young men and women were informed 
by their commanding officers they 
would be placed on full-time active 
duty, they were not only concerned 
with the extended time period they 
would be called away from their families, 
but also with the reality that by 
temporarily leaving behind their full-
time civilian jobs, many of them would 
leave behind a higher paycheck. Many 
reservists are suddenly faced with the 
prospect that their income may no 
longer cover all of the expenses for 
themselves and their families. 

Some may say that allowing reservists 
to make withdrawals from their retirement 
accounts without incurring a 
penalty is too small a step and not 
worthy of our time. But to many reservists 
and Guard members, these retirement 
accounts can be a significant 
resource in helping to alleviate some of 
their financial stress. Providing our 
soldiers with an additional option to 
support their families certainly seems 
like a worthwhile cause to me. 

The cost of this bill to the U.S. 
Treasury is estimated to be only $4 
million over 10 years. I think we can 
all agree this cost is minimal considering 
the tremendous sacrifices that 
our reservists, Guard members, and 
their families are making each day. In 
addition, there is a provision in this 
bill that would allow our soldiers to 
repay any amount withdrawn, without 

penalty, for 2 years after leaving active 
duty. 

There is no doubt that there are 
many additional much needed improvements 
to our policies that each of us 
must work together towards to ensure 
the financial peace of mind for our 
Guard and Reserve members and their 
families. It is imperative for each of us 
to give our soldiers not only all of the 
tools, armor, and technology to fight 
those who seek to destroy peace, but 
we must also do everything within our 
power to give our soldiers every appropriate 
resource to make it easier to 
care for their loved ones they have left 
behind. 

I urge my colleagues to give serious 
consideration to this bill, and it is my 
hope that it can be passed by unanimous 
consent. I am confident that 
President Bush would have no hesitation 
in signing this important bill 
into law, if we can pass it in the Senate 
and send it to him. 

f 

SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS 

SENATE RESOLUTION 348—TO PRO


TECT, PROMOTE, AND CELE


BRATE MOTHERHOOD 

Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself, Mr. 
ALLEN, Mr. BUNNING, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. 
CRAPO, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. FITZGERALD, 
Mr. HATCH, Mr. LOTT, Mr. MILLER, Mr. 
ROBERTS, Mr. SPECTER, Mr. ENSIGN, Mr. 
COCHRAN, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. BURNS, Mr. 
BYRD, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. DOMENICI, 
Mr. LEVIN, and Mr. SANTORUM) submitted 
the following resolution; which 
was referred to the Committee on the 
Judiciary: 

S. RES. 348 
Whereas the second Sunday of May is observed 
as Mother’s Day; 
Whereas motherhood and childhood are entitled 
to special assistance; 
Whereas mothers have a unique bond with 
their children; 
Whereas the work of mothers is of paramount 
importance, but often undervalued 
and demeaned; 
Whereas mothers’ concerns about their 
children and their education should be supported 
by the national agenda; 
Whereas a child’s healthy relationship 
with the mother predicts higher self-esteem 
and resiliency in dealing with life events; 
Whereas the complementary roles and contributions 
of fathers and mothers should be 
recognized and encouraged; 
Whereas mothers have an indispensable 
role in building and transforming society to 
build a culture of life; and 
Whereas mothers along with their husbands, 
form an emotional template for a 
child’s future relationships: Now therefore, 
be it 
Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) recognizes the importance of mothers to 
a healthy society; and 
(2) calls on the people of the United States 
to observe Mother’s Day by considering how 
society can better respect and support motherhood. 
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 
102—TO EXPRESS THE 
SENSE OF THE CONGRESS REGARDING 
THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE SUPREME COURT 
DECISION IN BROWN V. BOARD 
OF EDUCATION OF TOPEKA 

Mr. BROWNBACK (for himself and 
Mr. ROBERTS) submitted the following 
concurrent resolution; which was referred 
to the Committee on the Judiciary: 


S. CON. RES. 102 
Whereas Oliver L. Brown is the namesake 
of the landmark United States Supreme 
Court decision of 1954, Brown v. Board of 
Education (347 U.S. 483, 1954); 
Whereas Oliver L. Brown is honored as the 
lead plaintiff in the Topeka, Kansas case 
which posed a legal challenge to racial segregation 
in public education; 
Whereas by 1950, African-American parents 
began to renew their efforts to challenge 
State laws that only permitted their children 
to attend certain schools, and as a result, 
they organized through the National 
Association for the Advancement of Colored 
People (the NAACP), an organization founded 
in 1909 to address the issue of the unequal 
and discriminatory treatment experienced 
by African-Americans throughout the country; 
Whereas Oliver L. Brown became part of 
the NAACP strategy led first by Charles 
Houston and later by Thurgood Marshall, to 
file suit against various school boards on behalf 
of such parents and their children; 
Whereas Oliver L. Brown was a member of 
a distinguished group of plaintiffs in cases 
from Kansas (Brown v. Board of Education), 
Delaware (Gebhart v. Belton), South Carolina 
(Briggs v. Elliot), and Virginia (Davis v. 
County School Board of Prince Edward 
County) that were combined by the United 
States Supreme Court in Brown v. Board of 
Education, and in Washington, D.C. (Bolling 

v. Sharpe), considered separately by the Supreme 
Court with respect to the District of 
Columbia; 
Whereas with respect to cases filed in the 
State of Kansas— 

(1) there were 11 school integration cases 
dating from 1881 to 1949, prior to Brown v. 
Board of Education in 1954; 
(2) in many instances, the schools for African-
American children were substandard facilities 
with out-of-date textbooks and often 
no basic school supplies; 
(3) in the fall of 1950, members of the Topeka, 
Kansas chapter of the NAACP agreed 
to again challenge the ‘‘separate but equal’’ 
doctrine governing public education; 
(4) on February 28, 1951, the NAACP filed 
their case as Oliver L. Brown et al. v. The 
Board of Education of Topeka Kansas (which 
represented a group of 13 parents and 20 children); 
(5) the district court ruled in favor of the 
school board and the case was appealed to 
the United States Supreme Court; 
(6) at the Supreme Court level, the case 
was combined with other NAACP cases from 
Delaware, South Carolina, Virginia, and 
Washington, D.C. (which was later heard separately); 
and 
(7) the combined cases became known as 
Oliver L. Brown et al. v. The Board of Education 
of Topeka, et al.; 
Whereas with respect to the Virginia case 
of Davis et al. v. Prince Edward County 
Board of Supervisors— 

(1) one of the few public high schools available 
to African-Americans in the State of 
Virginia was Robert Moton High School in 
Prince Edward County; 

S4770 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

(2) built in 1943, it was never large enough 
to accommodate its student population; 
(3) the gross inadequacies of these classrooms 
sparked a student strike in 1951; 
(4) the NAACP soon joined their struggles 
and challenged the inferior quality of their 
school facilities in court; and 
(5) although the United States District 
Court ordered that the plaintiffs be provided 
with equal school facilities, they were denied 
access to the schools for white students in 
their area; 
Whereas with respect to the South Carolina 
case of Briggs v. R.W. Elliott— 

(1) in Clarendon County, South Carolina, 
the State NAACP first attempted, unsuccessfully 
and with a single plaintiff, to take legal 
action in 1947 against the inferior conditions 
that African-American students experienced 
under South Carolina’s racially segregated 
school system; 
(2) by 1951, community activists convinced 
African-American parents to join the 
NAACP efforts to file a class action suit in 
United States District Court; 
(3) the court found that the schools designated 
for African-Americans were grossly 
inadequate in terms of buildings, transportation, 
and teacher salaries when compared 
to the schools provided for white students; 
and 
(4) an order to equalize the facilities was 
virtually ignored by school officials, and the 
schools were never made equal; 
Whereas with respect to the Delaware 
cases of Belton v. Gebhart and Bulah v. 
Gebhart— 

(1) first petitioned in 1951, these cases challenged 
the inferior conditions of 2 African-
American schools; 
(2) in the suburb of Claymont, Delaware, 
African-American children were prohibited 
from attending the area’s local high school, 
and in the rural community of Hockessin, 
Delaware, African-American students were 
forced to attend a dilapidated 1-room schoolhouse, 
and were not provided transportation 
to the school, while white children in the 
area were provided transportation and a better 
school facility; 
(3) both plaintiffs were represented by local 
NAACP attorneys; and 
(4) though the State Supreme Court ruled 
in favor of the plaintiffs, the decision did not 
apply to all schools in Delaware; 
Whereas with respect to the District of Columbia 
case of Bolling, et al. v. C. Melvin 
Sharpe, et al.— 

(1) 11 African-American junior high school 
students were taken on a field trip to Washington, 
D.C.’s new John Philip Sousa School 
for white students only; 
(2) the African-American students were denied 
admittance to the school and ordered to 
return to their inadequate school; and 
(3) in 1951, a suit was filed on behalf of the 
students, and after review with the Brown 
case in 1954, the United States Supreme 
Court ruled that segregation in the Nation’s 
capital was unconstitutional; 
Whereas on May 17, 1954, at 12:52 p.m., the 
United States Supreme Court ruled that the 
discriminatory nature of racial segregation 
‘‘violates the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, 
which guarantees all citizens equal 
protection of the laws’’; 

Whereas the decision in Brown v. Board of 
Education set the stage for dismantling racial 
segregation throughout the country; 

Whereas the quiet courage of Oliver L. 
Brown and his fellow plaintiffs asserted the 
right of African-American people to have 
equal access to social, political, and communal 
structures; 

Whereas our country is indebted to the 
work of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational 
Fund, Inc., Howard University Law 
School, the NAACP, and the individual 

plaintiffs in the cases considered by the Supreme 
Court; 

Whereas Reverend Oliver L. Brown died in 
1961, and because the landmark United 
States Supreme Court decision bears his 
name, he is remembered as an icon for justice, 
freedom, and equal rights; and 

Whereas the national importance of the 
Brown v. Board of Education decision had a 
profound impact on American culture, affecting 
families, communities, and governments 
by outlawing racial segregation in 
public education, resulting in the abolition 
of legal discrimination on any basis: Now 
therefore be it 

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives 
concurring), That— 

(1) the Congress recognizes and honors the 
50th anniversary of the Supreme Court decision 
in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka; 
(2) the Congress encourages all people of 
the United States to recognize the importance 
of the Supreme Court decision in 
Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka; and 
(3) by celebrating the 50th anniversary of 
the Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, 
the Nation will be able to refresh and renew 
the importance of equality in society. 
f 

AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND 
PROPOSED 

SA 3107. Mr. HARKIN (for himself, Mr. 
KENNEDY, Mr. AKAKA, Mr. BINGAMAN, Mrs. 
BOXER, Mr. BYRD, Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs. CLINTON, 
Mr. CORZINE, Mr. DASCHLE, Mr. DAYTON, 
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. EDWARDS, Mr. FEINGOLD, Mr. 
GRAHAM, of Florida, Mr. KERRY, Mr. KOHL, 
Mr. LAUTENBERG, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. LEVIN, Ms. 
MIKULSKI, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. NELSON of Florida, 
Mr. PRYOR, Mr. REED, Mr. REID, Mr. 
ROCKEFELLER, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. SCHUMER, 
and Ms. STABENOW) proposed an amendment 
to the bill S. 1637, to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to comply with the 
World Trade Organization rulings on the 
FSC/ETI benefit in a manner that preserves 
jobs and production activities in the United 
States, to reform and simplify the international 
taxation rules of the United States, 
and for other purposes. 

SA 3108. Ms. COLLINS proposed an amendment 
to the bill S. 1637, supra. 

SA 3109. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. 
COLEMAN, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, Mr. BAUCUS, Mr. 
DAYTON, Mr. BROWNBACK, Mr. DODD, and Ms. 
SNOWE) proposed an amendment to the bill S. 
1637, supra. 

f 

TEXT OF AMENDMENTS 
SA 3107. Mr. HARKIN (for himself, 
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. AKAKA, Mr. BINGAMAN, 
Mrs. BOXER, Mr. BYRD, Ms. CANTWELL, 
Mrs. CLINTON, Mr. CORZINE, Mr. 
DASCHLE, Mr. DAYTON, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. 
EDWARDS, Mr. FEINGOLD, Mr. GRAHAM 
of Florida, Mr. KERRY, Mr. KOHL, Mr. 
LAUTENBERG, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. LEVIN, 
Ms. MIKULSKI, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. NELSON 
of Florida, Mr. PRYOR, Mr. REED, 
Mr. REID, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, Mr. SARBANES, 
Mr. SCHUMER, and Ms. STABENOW) 
proposed an amendment to the 
bill S. 1637, to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to comply with the 
World Trade Organization rulings on 
the FSC/ETI benefit in a manner that 
preserves jobs and production activities 
in the United States, to reform and 
simplify the international taxation 
rules of the United States, and for 
other purposes; as follows: 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. ll. PROTECTION OF OVERTIME PAY. 

Section 13 of the Fair Labor Standards Act 
of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 213) is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 

‘‘(k) Notwithstanding the provisions of 
subchapter II of chapter 5 and chapter 7 of 
title 5, United States Code (commonly referred 
to as the Administrative Procedures 
Act) or any other provision of law, any portion 
of the final rule promulgated on April 
23, 2004, revising part 541 of title 29, Code of 
Federal Regulations, that exempts from the 
overtime pay provisions of section 7 any employee 
who would not otherwise be exempt if 
the regulations in effect on March 31, 2003 remained 
in effect, shall have no force or effect 
and that portion of such regulations (as in 
effect on March 31, 2003) that would prevent 
such employee from being exempt shall remain 
in effect. Notwithstanding the preceding 
sentence, the increased salary requirements 
provided for in such final rule at 
section 541.600 of such title 29, shall remain 
in effect.’’. 

SA 3108. Ms. COLLINS proposed an 
amendment to the bill S. 1637, to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to comply with the World Trade 
Organization rulings on the FSC/ETI 
benefit in a manner that preserves jobs 
and production activities in the United 
States, to reform and simplify the 
international taxation rules of the 
United States, and for other purposes; 
as follows: 

On page 139, between lines 13 and 14, insert 
the following: 

SEC. ll. MANUFACTURER’S JOBS CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subpart D of part IV of 
subchapter A of chapter 1 (relating to business-
related credits), as amended by this 
Act, is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘SEC. 45S. MANUFACTURER’S JOBS CREDIT. 

‘‘(a) GENERAL RULE.—For purposes of section 
38, in the case of an eligible taxpayer, 
the manufacturer’s jobs credit determined 
under this section is an amount equal to the 
lesser of the following: 

‘‘(1) The excess of the W–2 wages paid by 
the taxpayer during the taxable year over 
the W–2 wages paid by the taxpayer during 
the preceding taxable year. 

‘‘(2) The W–2 wages paid by the taxpayer 
during the taxable year to any employee who 
is an eligible TAA recipient (as defined in 
section 35(c)(2)) for any month during such 
taxable year. 

‘‘(3) 22.4 percent of the W–2 wages paid by 
the taxpayer during the taxable year. 

‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—The amount of credit determined 
under subsection (a) shall be reduced 
by an amount which bears the same 
ratio to the amount of the credit (determined 
without regard to this subsection) 
as— 

‘‘(1) the excess of the W–2 wages paid by 
the taxpayer to employees outside the 
United States during the taxable year over 
such wages paid during the most recent taxable 
year ending before the date of the enactment 
of this section, bears to 

‘‘(2) the excess of the W–2 wages paid by 
the taxpayer to employees within the United 
States during the taxable year over such 
wages paid during such most recent taxable 
year. 

‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE TAXPAYER.—For purposes of 
this section, the term ‘eligible taxpayer’ 
means any taxpayer— 

‘‘(1) which has domestic production gross 
receipts for the taxable year and the preceding 
taxable year, and 

‘‘(2) which is not treated at any time during 
the taxable year as an inverted domestic 
corporation under section 7874. 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4771 

‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section, 
W–2 wages and domestic production 
gross receipts shall be determined in the 
same manner as under section 199. 

‘‘(e) CERTAIN RULES MADE APPLICABLE.— 
For purposes of this section, rules similar to 
the rules of section 52 shall apply. 

‘‘(f) TERMINATION.—This section shall not 
apply to any taxable year beginning after 
December 31, 2005.’’. 

(b) CREDIT TO BE PART OF GENERAL BUSINESS 
CREDIT.—Section 38(b) (relating to current 
year business credit), as amended by 
this Act, is amended by striking ‘‘plus’’ at 
the end of paragraph (29), by striking the period 
at the end of paragraph (30) and inserting 
‘‘, plus’’, and by adding at the end the 
following: 
‘‘(31) the manufacturer’s jobs credit determined 
under section 45S.’’. 

(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for subpart D of part IV of sub-
chapter A of chapter 1, as amended by this 
Act, is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘Sec. 45S. Manufacturer’s jobs credit.’’. 

(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after December 31, 2003. 
On page 335, line 8, strike ‘‘December 31, 
2004,’’ and insert ‘‘the date of the enactment 
of this Act’’. 

SA 3109. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, 
Mr. COLEMAN, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, Mr. 
BAUCUS, Mr. DAYTON, Mr. BROWNBACK, 
Mr. DODD, and Ms. SNOWE) proposed an 
amendment to the bill S. 1637, to 
amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to comply with the World Trade 
Organization rulings on the FSC/ETI 
benefit in a manner that preserves jobs 
and production activities in the United 
States, to reform and simplify the 
international taxation rules of the 
United States, and for other purposes; 
as follows: 

At the end of the bill, add the following: 

TITLE IX—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE 
Subtitle A—Service Workers 
SEC. 911. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Trade 
Adjustment Assistance Equity For Service 
Workers Act of 2004’’. 

SEC. 912. EXTENSION OF TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 
TO SERVICES SECTOR. 

(a) ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR WORK-
ERS.—Section 221(a)(1)(A) of the Trade Act of 
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271(a)(1)(A)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘firm)’’ and inserting ‘‘firm, and 
workers in a service sector firm or subdivision 
of a service sector firm or public agency)’’. 
(b) GROUP ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.— 
Section 222 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2272) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
by striking ‘‘agricultural firm)’’ and inserting 
‘‘agricultural firm, and workers in a 
service sector firm or subdivision of a service 
sector firm or public agency)’’; 
(B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or public 
agency’’ after ‘‘of the firm’’; and 
(C) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking 
‘‘like or directly competitive with articles 
produced’’ and inserting ‘‘or services like or 
directly competitive with articles produced 
or services provided’’; and 
(ii) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(B)(i) there has been a shift, by such 
workers’ firm, subdivision, or public agency 

to a foreign country, of production of articles, 
or in provision of services, like or directly 
competitive with articles which are 
produced, or services which are provided, by 
such firm, subdivision, or public agency; or 

‘‘(ii) such workers’ firm, subdivision, or 
public agency has obtained or is likely to obtain 
such services from a foreign country.’’; 

(2) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
by striking ‘‘agricultural firm)’’ and inserting 
‘‘agricultural firm, and workers in a 
service sector firm or subdivision of a service 
sector firm or public agency)’’; 
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘or service’’ 
after ‘‘related to the article’’; and 
(C) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting ‘‘or 
services’’ after ‘‘component parts’’; 
(3) in subsection (c)— 
(A) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(C) Taconite pellets produced in the 
United States shall be considered to be an 
article that is like or directly competitive 
with imports of semifinished steel slab.’’. 

(B) in paragraph (3)— 
(i) by inserting ‘‘or services’’ after ‘‘value-
added production processes’’; 
(ii) by striking ‘‘or finishing’’ and inserting 
‘‘, finishing, or testing’’; 
(iii) by inserting ‘‘or services’’ after ‘‘for 
articles’’; and 
(iv) by inserting ‘‘(or subdivision)’’ after 
‘‘such other firm’’; and 
(C) in paragraph (4)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘for articles’’ and inserting 
‘‘, or services, used in the production of articles 
or in the provision of services’’; and 
(ii) by inserting ‘‘(or subdivision)’’ after 
‘‘such other firm’’; and 
(4) by adding at the end the following new 
subsection: 
‘‘(d) BASIS FOR SECRETARY’S DETERMINATIONS.— 
‘‘(1) INCREASED IMPORTS.—For purposes of 
subsection (a)(2)(A)(ii), the Secretary may 
determine that increased imports of like or 
directly competitive articles or services 
exist if the workers’ firm or subdivision or 
customers of the workers’ firm or subdivision 
accounting for not less than 20 percent 
of the sales of the workers’ firm or subdivision 
certify to the Secretary that they are 
obtaining such articles or services from a 
foreign country. 

‘‘(2) OBTAINING SERVICES ABROAD.—For purposes 
of subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii), the Secretary 
may determine that the workers’ 
firm, subdivision, or public agency has obtained 
or is likely to obtain like or directly 
competitive services from a firm in a foreign 
country based on a certification thereof from 
the workers’ firm, subdivision, or public 
agency. 

‘‘(3) AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY.—The 
Secretary may obtain the certifications 
under paragraphs (1) and (2) through questionnaires 
or in such other manner as the 
Secretary determines is appropriate.’’. 

(c) TRAINING.—Section 236(a)(2)(A) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2296(a)(2)(A)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘$220,000,000’’ and inserting 
‘‘$440,000,000’’. 
(d) DEFINITIONS.—Section 247 of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2319) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘or public agency’’ after 
‘‘of a firm’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘or public agency’’ after 
‘‘or subdivision’’; 
(2) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ‘‘or 
public agency’’ after ‘‘the firm’’; 
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through 
(17) as paragraphs (9) through (18), respectively; 
and 
(4) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following: 
‘‘(7) The term ‘public agency’ means a department 
or agency of a State or local government 
or of the Federal Government. 

‘‘(8) The term ‘service sector firm’ means 
an entity engaged in the business of providing 
services.’’. 

(e) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 245(a) 
of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2317(a)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘, other than sub-
chapter D’’. 
SEC. 913. TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR 
FIRMS AND INDUSTRIES. 

(a) FIRMS.— 
(1) ASSISTANCE.—Section 251 of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2341) is amended— 
(A) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘or service 
sector firm’’ after ‘‘(including any agricultural 
firm’’; 
(B) in subsection (c)(1)— 
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
(A), by inserting ‘‘or service sector firm’’ 
after ‘‘any agricultural firm’’; 
(ii) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by inserting 
‘‘or service’’ after ‘‘of an article’’; and 
(iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘articles 
like or directly competitive with articles 
which are produced’’ and inserting ‘‘articles 
or services like or directly competitive 
with articles or services which are produced 
or provided’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(e) BASIS FOR SECRETARY DETERMINATION.— 
‘‘(1) INCREASED IMPORTS.—For purposes of 
subsection (c)(1)(C), the Secretary may determine 
that increases of imports of like or 
directly competitive articles or services 
exist if customers accounting for not less 
than 20 percent of the sales of the workers’ 
firm certify to the Secretary that they are 
obtaining such articles or services from a 
foreign country. 

‘‘(2) AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY.—The 
Secretary may obtain the certifications 
under paragraph (1) through questionnaires 
or in such other manner as the Secretary determines 
is appropriate. The Secretary may 
exercise the authority under section 249 in 
carrying out this subsection.’’. 

(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
Section 256(b) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 
U.S.C. 2346(b)) is amended by striking 
‘‘$16,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$32,000,000’’. 
(3) DEFINITION.—Section 261 of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2351) is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘For purposes of’’ and inserting 
‘‘(a) FIRM.—For purposes of’’; and 
(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(b) SERVICE SECTOR FIRM.—For purposes 
of this chapter, the term ‘service sector firm’ 
means a firm engaged in the business of providing 
services.’’. 

(b) INDUSTRIES.—Section 265(a) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2355(a)) is amended 
by inserting ‘‘or service’’ after ‘‘new product’’. 
SEC. 914. MONITORING AND REPORTING. 

Section 282 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 

U.S.C. 2393) is amended— 
(1) in the first sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and inserting 
‘‘(a) MONITORING PROGRAMS.—The 
Secretary’’; 
(B) by inserting ‘‘and services’’ after ‘‘imports 
of articles’’; 
(C) by inserting ‘‘and domestic provision of 
services’’ after ‘‘domestic production’’; 
(D) by inserting ‘‘or providing services’’ 
after ‘‘producing articles’’; and 
(E) by inserting ‘‘, or provision of services,’’ 
after ‘‘changes in production’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(b) COLLECTION OF DATA AND REPORTS ON 
SERVICES SECTOR.— 
‘‘(1) SECRETARY OF LABOR.—Not later than 
3 months after the date of the enactment of 
the Trade Adjustment Assistance Equity For 


S4772 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

Service Workers Act of 2004, the Secretary of 
Labor shall implement a system to collect 
data on adversely affected service workers 
that includes the number of workers by 
State, industry, and cause of dislocation of 
each worker. 

‘‘(2) SECRETARY OF COMMERCE.—Not later 
than 6 months after such date of enactment, 
the Secretary of Commerce shall, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Labor, conduct 
a study and report to the Congress on 
ways to improve the timeliness and coverage 
of data on trade in services, including methods 
to identify increased imports due to the 
relocation of United States firms to foreign 
countries, and increased imports due to 
United States firms obtaining services from 
firms in foreign countries.’’. 

SEC. 915. ALTERNATIVE TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE. 


IN GENERAL.—Section 246(a)(3) of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2318(a)(3)) is amended to 
read as follows: 

‘‘(3) ELIGIBILITY.—A worker in the group 
that the Secretary has certified as eligible 
for the alternative trade adjustment assistance 
program may elect to receive benefits 
under the alternative trade adjustment assistance 
program if the worker— 

‘‘(A) is covered by a certification under 
subchapter A of this chapter; 

‘‘(B) obtains reemployment not more than 
26 weeks after the date of separation from 
the adversely affected employment; 

‘‘(C) is at least 40 years of age; 

‘‘(D) earns not more than $50,000 a year in 
wages from reemployment; 

‘‘(E) is employed on a full-time basis as defined 
by State law in the State in which the 
worker is employed; and 

‘‘(F) does not return to the employment 
from which the worker was separated.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—(1) Sub-
paragraphs (A) and (B) of section 246(a)(2) of 
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2318(a)(2) (A) 
and (B)) are amended by striking ‘‘paragraph 
(3)(B)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (3)’’ each 
place it appears. 
(2) Section 246(b)(2) of such Act is amended 
by striking ‘‘subsection (a)(3)(B)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subsection (a)(3)’’. 
SEC. 916. CLARIFICATION OF MARKETING YEAR 
AND OTHER PROVISIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 291(5) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2401(5)) is amended 
by inserting before the end period the following: 
‘‘, or in the case of an agricultural 
commodity that has no officially designated 
marketing year, in a 12-month period for 
which the petitioner provides written request’’. 
(b) FISHERMEN.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, for purposes of chapter 
2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 
U.S.C. 2271 et seq.) fishermen who harvest 
wild stock shall be eligible for adjustment 
assistance to the same extent and in the 
same manner as a group of workers under 
such chapter 2. 
SEC. 917. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
subsections (b) and (c), the amendments 
made by this subtitle shall take effect on October 
1, 2004. 
(b) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN SERVICE 
WORKERS.—A group of workers in a service 
sector firm, or subdivision of a service sector 
firm, or public agency (as defined in section 
247 (7) and (8) of the Trade Act of 1974, as 
added by section 912(d) of this Act) who— 
(1) would have been certified eligible to 
apply for adjustment assistance under chapter 
2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 if the 
amendments made by this Act had been in 
effect on November 4, 2002, and 
(2) file a petition pursuant to section 221 of 
such Act within 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, 
shall be eligible for certification under section 
223 of the Trade Act of 1974 if the workers’ 
last total or partial separation from the 
firm or subdivision of the firm or public 
agency occurred on or after November 4, 2002 
and before October 1, 2004. 

(c) SPECIAL RULE FOR TACONITE.—A group 
of workers in a firm, or subdivision of a firm, 
engaged in the production of taconite pellets 
who— 
(1) would have been certified eligible to 
apply for adjustment assistance under chapter 
2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 if the 
amendments made by this Act had been in 
effect on November 4, 2002, and 
(2) file a petition pursuant to section 221 of 
such Act within 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, 
shall be eligible for certification under section 
223 of the Trade Act of 1974 if the workers’ 
last total or partial separation from the 
firm or subdivision of the firm occurred on 
or after November 4, 2002 and before October 
1, 2004. 
Subtitle B—Data Collection 
SEC. 921. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Trade 
Adjustment Assistance Accountability Act’’. 

SEC. 922. DATA COLLECTION; STUDY; INFORMATION 
TO WORKERS. 

(a) DATA COLLECTION; EVALUATIONS.—Subchapter 
C of chapter 2 of title II of the Trade 
Act of 1974 is amended by inserting after section 
249, the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 250. DATA COLLECTION; EVALUATIONS; REPORTS. 


‘‘(a) DATA COLLECTION.—The Secretary 
shall, pursuant to regulations prescribed by 
the Secretary, collect any data necessary to 
meet the requirements of this chapter. 

‘‘(b) PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS.—The Secretary 
shall establish an effective performance 
measuring system to evaluate the following: 


‘‘(1) PROGRAM PERFORMANCE.—A comparison 
of the trade adjustment assistance program 
before and after the effective date of 
the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform 
Act of 2002 with respect to— 

‘‘(A) the number of workers certified and 
the number of workers actually participating 
in the trade adjustment assistance 
program; 

‘‘(B) the time for processing petitions; 

‘‘(C) the number of training waivers granted; 


‘‘(D) the coordination of programs under 
this chapter with programs under the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2801 et 
seq.); 

‘‘(E) the effectiveness of individual training 
providers in providing appropriate information 
and training; 

‘‘(F) the extent to which States have designed 
and implemented health care coverage 
options under title II of the Trade Act 
of 2002, including any difficulties States have 
encountered in carrying out the provisions of 
title II; 

‘‘(G) how Federal, State, and local officials 
are implementing the trade adjustment assistance 
program to ensure that all eligible 
individuals receive benefits, including providing 
outreach, rapid response, and other 
activities; and 

‘‘(H) any other data necessary to evaluate 
how individual States are implementing the 
requirements of this chapter. 

‘‘(2) PROGRAM PARTICIPATION.—The effectiveness 
of the program relating to— 

‘‘(A) the number of workers receiving benefits 
and the type of benefits being received 
both before and after the effective date of 
the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform 
Act of 2002; 

‘‘(B) the number of workers enrolled in, 
and the duration of, training by major types 

of training both before and after the effective 
date of the Trade Adjustment Assistance 
Reform Act of 2002; 

‘‘(C) earnings history of workers that reflects 
wages before separation and wages in 
any job obtained after receiving benefits 
under this Act; 

‘‘(D) reemployment rates and sectors in 
which dislocated workers have been employed; 


‘‘(E) the cause of dislocation identified in 
each petition that resulted in a certification 
under this chapter; and 

‘‘(F) the number of petitions filed and 
workers certified in each congressional district 
of the United States. 

‘‘(c) STATE PARTICIPATION.—The Secretary 
shall ensure, to the extent practicable, 
through oversight and effective internal control 
measures the following: 

‘‘(1) STATE PARTICIPATION.—Participation 
by each State in the performance measurement 
system established under subsection 
(b). 

‘‘(2) MONITORING.—Monitoring by each 
State of internal control measures with respect 
to performance measurement data collected 
by each State. 

‘‘(3) RESPONSE.—The quality and speed of 
the rapid response provided by each State 
under section 134(a)(2)(A) of the Workforce 
Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 
2864(a)(2)(A)). 

‘‘(d) REPORTS.— 

‘‘(1) REPORTS BY THE SECRETARY.— 

‘‘(A) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 6 
months after the date of enactment of the 
Trade Adjustment Assistance Accountability 
Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee 
on Finance of the Senate and the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House 
of Representatives a report that— 

‘‘(i) describes the performance measurement 
system established under subsection 
(b); 

‘‘(ii) includes analysis of data collected 
through the system established under subsection 
(b); and 

‘‘(iii) provides recommendations for program 
improvements. 

‘‘(B) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 1 
year after the date the report is submitted 
under subparagraph (A), and annually thereafter, 
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee 
on Finance of the Senate and the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House 
of Representatives a report that includes the 
information collected under clause (ii) of 
subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(2) STATE REPORTS.—Pursuant to regulations 
prescribed by the Secretary, each State 
shall submit to the Secretary a report that 
details its participation in the programs established 
under this chapter, and that contains 
the data necessary to allow the Secretary 
to submit the report required under 
paragraph (1). 

‘‘(3) PUBLICATION.—The Secretary shall 
make available to each State, and other public 
and private organizations as determined 
by the Secretary, the data gathered and 
evaluated through the performance measurement 
system established under subsection 
(b).’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) COORDINATION.—Section 281 of the Trade 
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2392) is amended by 
striking ‘‘Departments of Labor and Commerce’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Departments of 
Labor, Commerce, and Agriculture’’. 
(2) TRADE MONITORING SYSTEM.—Section 282 
of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2393) is 
amended by striking ‘‘The Secretary of Commerce 
and the Secretary of Labor’’ and inserting 
‘‘The Secretaries of Commerce, 
Labor, and Agriculture’’. 
(3) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for title II of the Trade Act of 1974 is 

May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4773 

amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 249, the following new item: 

‘‘Sec. 250. Data collection; evaluations; reports.’’. 


(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on October 
1, 2004. 
Subtitle C—Trade Adjustment Assistance for 
Communities 

SEC. 931. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Trade 
Adjustment Assistance for Communities Act 
of 2004’’. 

SEC. 932. PURPOSE. 

The purpose of this subtitle is to assist 
communities negatively impacted by trade 
with economic adjustment through the integration 
of political and economic organizations, 
the coordination of Federal, State, and 
local resources, the creation of community-
based development strategies, and the provision 
of economic transition assistance. 

SEC. 933. TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR 
COMMUNITIES. 

Chapter 4 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 
(19 U.S.C. 2371 et seq.) is amended to read as 
follows: 

‘‘CHAPTER 4—TRADE ADJUSTMENT 
ASSISTANCE FOR COMMUNITIES 

‘‘SEC. 271. DEFINITIONS. 

‘‘In this chapter: 

‘‘(1) AFFECTED DOMESTIC PRODUCER.—The 
term ‘affected domestic producer’ means any 
manufacturer, producer, service provider, 
farmer, rancher, fisherman or worker representative 
(including associations of such 
persons) that was affected by a finding under 
the Antidumping Act of 1921, or by an anti-
dumping or countervailing duty order issued 
under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930. 

‘‘(2) AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY PRODUCER.— 
The term ‘agricultural commodity producer’ 
has the same meaning as the term ‘person’ 
as prescribed by regulations promulgated 
under section 1001(5) of the Food Security 
Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308(5)). 

‘‘(3) COMMUNITY.—The term ‘community’ 
means a city, county, or other political subdivision 
of a State or a consortium of political 
subdivisions of a State that the Secretary 
certifies as being negatively impacted 
by trade. 

‘‘(4) COMMUNITY NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY 
TRADE.—A community negatively impacted 
by trade means a community with respect to 
which a determination has been made under 
section 273. 

‘‘(5) ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY.—The term ‘eligible 
community’ means a community certified 
under section 273 for assistance under 
this chapter. 

‘‘(6) FISHERMAN.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘fisherman’ 
means any person who— 

‘‘(i) is engaged in commercial fishing; or 

‘‘(ii) is a United States fish processor. 

‘‘(B) COMMERCIAL FISHING, FISH, FISHERY, 
FISHING, FISHING VESSEL, PERSON, AND UNITED 
STATES FISH PROCESSOR.—The terms ‘commercial 
fishing’, ‘fish’, ‘fishery’, ‘fishing’, 
‘fishing vessel’, ‘person’, and ‘United States 
fish processor’ have the same meanings as 
such terms have in the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1802). 

‘‘(7) JOB LOSS.—The term ‘job loss’ means 
the total or partial separation of an individual, 
as those terms are defined in section 
247. 

‘‘(8) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ 
means the Secretary of Commerce. 

‘‘SEC. 272. COMMUNITY TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 
PROGRAM. 

‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Within 6 months 
after the date of enactment of the Trade Ad


justment Assistance for Communities Act of 
2004, the Secretary shall establish a Trade 
Adjustment Assistance for Communities 
Program at the Department of Commerce. 

‘‘(b) PERSONNEL.—The Secretary shall designate 
such staff as may be necessary to 
carry out the responsibilities described in 
this chapter. 

‘‘(c) COORDINATION OF FEDERAL RE-
SPONSE.—The Secretary shall— 

‘‘(1) provide leadership, support, and coordination 
for a comprehensive management 
program to address economic dislocation in 
eligible communities; 

‘‘(2) coordinate the Federal response to an 
eligible community— 

‘‘(A) by identifying all Federal, State, and 
local resources that are available to assist 
the eligible community in recovering from 
economic distress; 

‘‘(B) by ensuring that all Federal agencies 
offering assistance to an eligible community 
do so in a targeted, integrated manner that 
ensures that an eligible community has access 
to all available Federal assistance; 

‘‘(C) by assuring timely consultation and 
cooperation between Federal, State, and regional 
officials concerning economic adjustment 
for an eligible community; and 

‘‘(D) by identifying and strengthening existing 
agency mechanisms designed to assist 
eligible communities in their efforts to 
achieve economic adjustment and workforce 
reemployment; 

‘‘(3) provide comprehensive technical assistance 
to any eligible community in the efforts 
of that community to— 

‘‘(A) identify serious economic problems in 
the community that are the result of negative 
impacts from trade; 

‘‘(B) integrate the major groups and organizations 
significantly affected by the economic 
adjustment; 

‘‘(C) access Federal, State, and local resources 
designed to assist in economic development 
and trade adjustment assistance; 

‘‘(D) diversify and strengthen the community 
economy; and 

‘‘(E) develop a community-based strategic 
plan to address economic development and 
workforce dislocation, including unemployment 
among agricultural commodity producers, 
and fishermen; 

‘‘(4) establish specific criteria for submission 
and evaluation of a strategic plan submitted 
under section 274(d); 

‘‘(5) establish specific criteria for submitting 
and evaluating applications for grants 
under section 275; 

‘‘(6) administer the grant programs established 
under sections 274 and 275; and 

‘‘(7) establish an interagency Trade Adjustment 
Assistance for Communities Working 
Group, consisting of the representatives of 
any Federal department or agency with responsibility 
for economic adjustment assistance, 
including the Department of Agriculture, 
the Department of Education, the 
Department of Labor, the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development, the Department 
of Health and Human Services, the 
Small Business Administration, the Department 
of the Treasury, the Department of 
Commerce, and any other Federal, State, or 
regional department or agency the Secretary 
determines necessary or appropriate. 

‘‘SEC. 273. CERTIFICATION AND NOTIFICATION. 

‘‘(a) CERTIFICATION.—Not later than 45 days 
after an event described in subsection (c)(1), 
the Secretary of Commerce shall determine 
if a community described in subsection (b)(1) 
is negatively impacted by trade, and if a 
positive determination is made, shall certify 
the community for assistance under this 
chapter. 

‘‘(b) DETERMINATION THAT COMMUNITY IS 
ELIGIBLE.— 

‘‘(1) COMMUNITY DESCRIBED.—A community 
described in this paragraph means a community 
with respect to which on or after October 
1, 2004— 

‘‘(A) the Secretary of Labor certifies a 
group of workers (or their authorized representative) 
in the community as eligible for 
assistance pursuant to section 223; 

‘‘(B) the Secretary of Commerce certifies a 
firm located in the community as eligible for 
adjustment assistance under section 251; 

‘‘(C) the Secretary of Agriculture certifies 
a group of agricultural commodity producers 
(or their authorized representative) in the 
community as eligible for adjustment assistance 
under section 293; 

‘‘(D) an affected domestic producer is located 
in the community; or 

‘‘(E) the Secretary determines that a significant 
number of fishermen in the community 
is negatively impacted by trade. 

‘‘(2) NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY TRADE.—The 
Secretary shall determine that a community 
is negatively impacted by trade, after taking 
into consideration— 

‘‘(A) the number of jobs affected compared 
to the size of workforce in the community; 

‘‘(B) the severity of the rates of unemployment 
in the community and the duration of 
the unemployment in the community; 

‘‘(C) the income levels and the extent of 
underemployment in the community; 

‘‘(D) the outmigration of population from 
the community and the extent to which the 
outmigration is causing economic injury in 
the community; and 

‘‘(E) the unique problems and needs of the 
community. 

‘‘(c) DEFINITION AND SPECIAL RULES.— 

‘‘(1) EVENT DESCRIBED.—An event described 
in this paragraph means one of the following: 

‘‘(A) A notification described in paragraph 
(2). 

‘‘(B) A certification of a firm under section 
251. 

‘‘(C) A finding under the Antidumping Act 
of 1921, or an antidumping or countervailing 
duty order issued under title VII of the Tariff 
Act of 1930. 

‘‘(D) A determination by the Secretary 
that a significant number of fishermen in a 
community have been negatively impacted 
by trade. 

‘‘(2) NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary of 
Labor, immediately upon making a determination 
that a group of workers is eligible 
for trade adjustment assistance under section 
223, (or the Secretary of Agriculture, 
immediately upon making a determination 
that a group of agricultural commodity producers 
is eligible for adjustment assistance 
under section 293, as the case may be) shall 
notify the Secretary of Commerce of the determination. 


‘‘(d) NOTIFICATION TO ELIGIBLE COMMUNITIES.—
Immediately upon certification by 
the Secretary of Commerce that a community 
is eligible for assistance under subsection 
(b), the Secretary shall notify the 
community— 

‘‘(1) of the determination under subsection 
(b); 

‘‘(2) of the provisions of this chapter; 

‘‘(3) how to access the clearinghouse established 
by the Department of Commerce regarding 
available economic assistance; 

‘‘(4) how to obtain technical assistance 
provided under section 272(c)(3); and 

‘‘(5) how to obtain grants, tax credits, low 
income loans, and other appropriate economic 
assistance. 
‘‘SEC. 274. STRATEGIC PLANS. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—An eligible community 
may develop a strategic plan for community 
economic adjustment and diversification. 

‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR STRATEGIC PLAN.— 
A strategic plan shall contain, at a minimum, 
the following: 


S4774 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

‘‘(1) A description and justification of the 
capacity for economic adjustment, including 
the method of financing to be used. 

‘‘(2) A description of the commitment of 
the community to the strategic plan over 
the long term and the participation and 
input of groups affected by economic dislocation. 


‘‘(3) A description of the projects to be undertaken 
by the eligible community. 

‘‘(4) A description of how the plan and the 
projects to be undertaken by the eligible 
community will lead to job creation and job 
retention in the community. 

‘‘(5) A description of how the plan will 
achieve economic adjustment and diversification. 


‘‘(6) A description of how the plan and the 
projects will contribute to establishing or 
maintaining a level of public services necessary 
to attract and retain economic investment. 


‘‘(7) A description and justification for the 
cost and timing of proposed basic and advanced 
infrastructure improvements in the 
eligible community. 

‘‘(8) A description of how the plan will address 
the occupational and workforce conditions 
in the eligible community. 

‘‘(9) A description of the educational programs 
available for workforce training and 
future employment needs. 

‘‘(10) A description of how the plan will 
adapt to changing markets and business cycles. 


‘‘(11) A description and justification for the 
cost and timing of the total funds required 
by the community for economic assistance. 

‘‘(12) A graduation strategy through which 
the eligible community demonstrates that 
the community will terminate the need for 
Federal assistance. 

‘‘(c) GRANTS TO DEVELOP STRATEGIC 
PLANS.—The Secretary, upon receipt of an 
application from an eligible community, 
may award a grant to that community to be 
used to develop the strategic plan. 

‘‘(d) SUBMISSION OF PLAN.—A strategic plan 
developed under subsection (a) shall be submitted 
to the Secretary for evaluation and 
approval. 

‘‘SEC. 275. GRANTS FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. 


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, upon approval 
of a strategic plan from an eligible 
community, may award a grant to that community 
to carry out any project or program 
that is certified by the Secretary to be included 
in the strategic plan approved under 
section 274(d), or consistent with that plan. 

‘‘(b) ADDITIONAL GRANTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), 
in order to assist eligible communities to obtain 
funds under Federal grant programs, 
other than the grants provided for in section 
274(c) or subsection (a), the Secretary may, 
on the application of an eligible community, 
make a supplemental grant to the community 
if— 

‘‘(A) the purpose of the grant program 
from which the grant is made is to provide 
technical or other assistance for planning, 
constructing, or equipping public works facilities 
or to provide assistance for public 
service projects; and 

‘‘(B) the grant is 1 for which the community 
is eligible except for the community’s 
inability to meet the non-Federal share requirements 
of the grant program. 

‘‘(2) USE AS NON-FEDERAL SHARE.—A supplemental 
grant made under this subsection 
may be used to provide the non-Federal 
share of a project, unless the total Federal 
contribution to the project for which the 
grant is being made exceeds 80 percent and 
that excess is not permitted by law. 

‘‘(c) RURAL COMMUNITY PREFERENCE.—The 
Secretary shall develop guidelines to ensure 

that rural communities receive preference in 
the allocation of resources. 

‘‘SEC. 276. GENERAL PROVISIONS. 

‘‘(a) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall 
prescribe such regulations as are necessary 
to carry out the provisions of this chapter. 
Before implementing any regulation or 
guideline proposed by the Secretary with respect 
to this chapter, the Secretary shall 
submit the regulation or guideline to the 
Committee on Finance of the Senate and the 
Committee on Ways and Means of the House 
of Representatives for approval. 

‘‘(b) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.—Funds 
appropriated under this chapter shall be used 
to supplement and not supplant other Federal, 
State, and local public funds expended 
to provide economic development assistance 
for communities. 

‘‘(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Secretary $100,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2005 through 2008, to carry out this 
chapter. Amounts appropriated pursuant to 
this subsection shall remain available until 
expended.’’. 

SEC. 934. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS. 

(a) TERMINATION.—Section 285(b) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(3) ASSISTANCE FOR COMMUNITIES.—Technical 
assistance and other payments may not 
be provided under chapter 4 after September 
30, 2008.’’. 

(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for title II of the Trade Act of 1974 is 
amended by striking the items relating to 
chapter 4 of title II and inserting after the 
items relating to chapter 3 the following new 
items: 
‘‘CHAPTER 4—TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE 

FOR COMMUNITIES 

‘‘Sec. 271. Definitions. 

‘‘Sec. 272. Community Trade Adjustment 

Assistance Program. 

‘‘Sec. 273. Certification and notification. 

‘‘Sec. 274. Strategic plans. 

‘‘Sec. 275. Grants for economic develop


ment. 

‘‘Sec. 276. General provisions.’’. 

(c) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Section 284(a) of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2395(a)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘section 271’’ and inserting 
‘‘section 273’’. 
SEC. 935. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

The amendments made by this subtitle 
shall take effect on October 1, 2004. 

Subtitle D—Office of Trade Adjustment 
Assistance 
SEC. 941. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Trade 
Adjustment Assistance for Firms Reorganization 
Act’’. 

SEC. 942. OFFICE OF TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 3 of title II of the 
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2341 et seq.) is 
amended by inserting after section 255 the 
following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 255A. OFFICE OF TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE. 


‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 90 
days after the date of enactment of the 
Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms Reorganization 
Act, there shall be established 
in the International Trade Administration of 
the Department of Commerce an Office of 
Trade Adjustment Assistance. 

‘‘(b) PERSONNEL.—The Office shall be headed 
by a Director, and shall have such staff as 
may be necessary to carry out the responsibilities 
of the Secretary of Commerce described 
in this chapter. 

‘‘(c) FUNCTIONS.—The Office shall assist the 
Secretary of Commerce in carrying out the 

Secretary’s responsibilities under this chapter.’’. 


(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of 
contents for the Trade Act of 1974 is amended 
by inserting after the item relating to section 
255, the following new item: 
‘‘Sec. 255A. Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance.’’. 


SEC. 943. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

The amendments made by this subtitle 
shall take effect on the earlier of— 

(1) the date of the enactment of this Act; 
or 
(2) October 1, 2004. 

TITLE X—IMPROVEMENT OF CREDIT FOR 
HEALTH INSURANCE COSTS OF ELIGIBLE 
INDIVIDUALS 

SEC. 1001. EXPEDITED REFUND OF CREDIT FOR 
PRORATED FIRST MONTHLY PREMIUM 
AND SUBSEQUENT MONTHLY 
PREMIUMS PAID PRIOR TO CERTIFICATION 
OF ELIGIBILITY FOR THE 
CREDIT. 

Section 7527 of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 (relating to advance payment of credit 
for health insurance costs of eligible individuals) 
is amended by adding at the end the 
following: 

‘‘(e) EXPEDITED PAYMENT OF PREMIUMS 
PAID PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE.— 
The program established under subsection 

(a) shall provide for payment to a certified 
individual (or to any person or entity designated 
by the certified individual, under 
guidelines developed by the Secretary to 
achieve the purposes of this section) of an 
amount equal to the percentage specified in 
section 35(a) of the premiums paid by such 
individual for coverage of the taxpayer and 
qualifying family members under qualified 
health insurance for eligible coverage 
months (as defined in section 35(b)) occurring 
prior to the issuance of a qualified 
health insurance costs credit eligibility certificate 
not later than 30 days after receipt 
by the Secretary of evidence of such payment 
by the certified individual.’’. 
SEC. 1002. TAA PRE-CERTIFICATION PERIOD 
RULE FOR PURPOSES OF DETERMINING 
WHETHER THERE IS A 63-
DAY LAPSE IN CREDITABLE COVERAGE. 


(a) ERISA AMENDMENT.—Section 701(c)(2) 
of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1181(c)(2)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(C) TAA-ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.— 

‘‘(i) TAA PRE-CERTIFICATION PERIOD RULE.— 
In the case of a TAA-eligible individual, the 
period beginning on the date the individual 
has a TAA-related loss of coverage and ending 
on the date that is 5 days after the postmark 
date of the notice by the Secretary (or 
by any person or entity designated by the 
Secretary) that the individual potentially is 
eligible for a qualified health insurance costs 
credit eligibility certificate for purposes of 
section 7527 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 shall not be taken into account in determining 
the continuous period under subparagraph 
(A). 

‘‘(ii) DEFINITIONS.—The terms ‘TAA-eligible 
individual’, and ‘TAA-related loss of coverage’ 
have the meanings given such terms 
in section 605(b)(4)(C).’’. 

(b) PHSA AMENDMENT.—Section 2701(c)(2) 
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300gg(c)(2)) is amended by adding at the end 
the following: 
‘‘(C) TAA-ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.— 

‘‘(i) TAA PRE-CERTIFICATION PERIOD RULE.— 
In the case of a TAA-eligible individual, the 
period beginning on the date the individual 
has a TAA-related loss of coverage and ending 
on the date that is 5 days after the postmark 
date of the notice by the Secretary (or 
by any person or entity designated by the 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4775 

Secretary) that the individual potentially is 
eligible for a qualified health insurance costs 
credit eligibility certificate for purposes of 
section 7527 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 shall not be taken into account in determining 
the continuous period under subparagraph 
(A). 

‘‘(ii) DEFINITIONS.—The terms ‘TAA-eligible 
individual’, and ‘TAA-related loss of coverage’ 
have the meanings given such terms 
in section 2205(b)(4)(C).’’. 

(c) IRC AMENDMENT.—Section 9801(c)(2) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating 
to not counting periods before significant 
breaks in creditable coverage) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(D) TAA-ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.— 

‘‘(i) TAA PRE-CERTIFICATION PERIOD RULE.— 
In the case of a TAA-eligible individual, the 
period beginning on the date the individual 
has a TAA-related loss of coverage and ending 
on the date which is 5 days after the 
postmark date of the notice by the Secretary 
(or by any person or entity designated by the 
Secretary) that the individual potentially is 
eligible for a qualified health insurance costs 
credit eligibility certificate for purposes of 
section 7527 shall not be taken into account 
in determining the continuous period under 
subparagraph (A). 

‘‘(ii) DEFINITIONS.—The terms ‘TAA-eligible 
individual’, and ‘TAA-related loss of coverage’ 
have the meanings given such terms 
in section 4980B(f)(5)(C)(iv).’’. 

SEC. 1003. CLARIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY OF 
SPOUSE OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS 
ENTITLED TO MEDICARE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (b) of section 
35 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (defining 
eligible coverage month) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR SPOUSE OF INDIVIDUAL 
ENTITLED TO MEDICARE.—Any month 
which would be an eligible coverage month 
with respect to a taxpayer (determined without 
regard to subsection (f)(2)(A)) shall be an 
eligible coverage month for any spouse of 
such taxpayer.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
173(f)(5)(A)(i) of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2918(f)(5)(A)(i)) is 
amended by inserting ‘‘(including with respect 
to any month for which the eligible individual 
would have been treated as such but 
for the application of paragraph (7)(B)(i))’’ 
before the comma. 
SEC. 1004. IMPROVEMENT OF THE AFFORDABILITY 
OF THE CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 35(a) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to credit 
for health insurance costs of eligible individuals) 
is amended by striking ‘‘65’’ and inserting 
‘‘75’’. 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 
7527(b) of such Code (relating to advance payment 
of credit for health insurance costs of 
eligible individuals) is amended by striking 
‘‘65’’ and inserting ‘‘75’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section apply to taxable years 
beginning after December 31, 2004. 
SEC. 1005. EXTENSION OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY 
GRANTS TO FACILITATE ESTABLISHMENT 
OF GROUP COVERAGE OPTION 
AND TO PROVIDE INTERIM HEALTH 
COVERAGE FOR ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS 
IN ORDER TO QUALIFY FOR 
GUARANTEED ISSUE AND OTHER 
CONSUMER PROTECTIONS; CLARIFICATION 
OF REQUIREMENT FOR 
GROUP COVERAGE OPTION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 173(f) of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 
2918(f)) is amended— 
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) USE OF FUNDS.— 
‘‘(A) HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR ELI


GIBLE INDIVIDUALS IN ORDER TO OBTAIN QUALI


FIED HEALTH INSURANCE THAT HAS GUARANTEED 
ISSUE AND OTHER CONSUMER PROTEC-
TIONS.—Funds made available to a State or 
entity under paragraph (4)(A) of subsection 

(a) may be used to provide an eligible individual 
described in paragraph (4)(C) and such 
individual’s qualifying family members with 
health insurance coverage for the 3-month 
period that immediately precedes the first 
eligible coverage month (as defined in section 
35(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986) in which such eligible individual and 
such individual’s qualifying family members 
are covered by qualified health insurance 
that meets the requirements described in 
clauses (i) through (iv) of section 35(e)(2)(A) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (or such 
longer minimum period as is necessary in 
order for such eligible individual and such 
individual’s qualifying family members to be 
covered by qualified health insurance that 
meets such requirements). 
‘‘(B) ADDITIONAL USES.—Funds made available 
to a State or entity under paragraph 
(4)(A) of subsection (a) may be used by the 
State or entity for the following: 

‘‘(i) HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE.—To assist 
an eligible individual and such individual’s 
qualifying family members in enrolling 
in health insurance coverage and qualified 
health insurance. 

‘‘(ii) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AND START-
UP EXPENSES TO ESTABLISH GROUP COVERAGE 
OPTIONS FOR QUALIFIED HEALTH INSURANCE.— 
To pay the administrative expenses related 
to the enrollment of eligible individuals and 
such individuals’ qualifying family members 
in health insurance coverage and qualified 
health insurance, including— 

‘‘(I) eligibility verification activities; 

‘‘(II) the notification of eligible individuals 
of available health insurance and qualified 
health insurance options; 

‘‘(III) processing qualified health insurance 
costs credit eligibility certificates provided 
for under section 7527 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986; 

‘‘(IV) providing assistance to eligible individuals 
in enrolling in health insurance coverage 
and qualified health insurance; 

‘‘(V) the development or installation of 
necessary data management systems; and 

‘‘(VI) any other expenses determined appropriate 
by the Secretary, including start-
up costs and on going administrative expenses, 
in order for the State to treat the 
coverage described in subparagraph (C), (D), 
(E), or (F)(i) of section 35(e)(1) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, or, only if the coverage 
is under a group health plan, the coverage 
described in subparagraph (F)(ii), (F)(iii), 
(F)(iv), (G), or (H) of such section, as qualified 
health insurance under that section. 

‘‘(iii) OUTREACH.—To pay for outreach to 
eligible individuals to inform such individuals 
of available health insurance and qualified 
health insurance options, including low 
cost options, outreach consisting of notice to 
eligible individuals of qualified health insurance 
options made available after the date of 
enactment of this clause, and direct assistance 
to help potentially eligible individuals 
and such individual’s qualifying family 
members qualify and remain eligible for the 
credit established under section 35 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 and advance payment 
of such credit under section 7527 of 
such Code. 

‘‘(iv) BRIDGE FUNDING.—To assist potentially 
eligible individuals purchase qualified 
health insurance coverage prior to issuance 
of a qualified health insurance costs credit 
eligibility certificate under section 7527 of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and commencement 
of advance payment, and receipt 
of expedited payment, under subsections (a) 
and (e), respectively, of that section. 

‘‘(C) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The inclusion 
of a permitted use under this paragraph shall 
not be construed as prohibiting a similar use 
of funds permitted under subsection (g).’’; 
and 

(2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(2) QUALIFIED HEALTH INSURANCE.—For 
purposes of this subsection and subsection 
(g), the term ‘qualified health insurance’ has 
the meaning given that term in section 35(e) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.’’. 

(b) FUNDING.—Section 174(c)(1) of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 
2919(c)(1)) is amended— 
(1) in the paragraph heading, by striking 
‘‘AUTHORIZATION AND APPROPRIATION FOR FISCAL 
YEAR 2002’’ and inserting ‘‘APPROPRIATIONS’’; 
and 
(2) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(A) to carry out subsection (a)(4)(A) of 
section 173— 

‘‘(i) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2002; and 

‘‘(ii) $300,000,000 for the period of fiscal 

years 2004 through 2006; and’’. 

(c) REPORT REGARDING FAILURE TO COMPLY 
WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR EXPEDITED APPROVAL 
PROCEDURES.—Section 173(f) of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 
2918(f)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following: 
‘‘(8) REPORT FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH 
REQUIREMENTS FOR EXPEDITED APPROVAL PRO-
CEDURES.—If the Secretary fails to make the 
notification required under clause (i) of paragraph 
(3)(A) within the 15-day period required 
under that clause, or fails to provide 
the technical assistance required under 
clause (ii) of such paragraph within a timely 
manner so that a State or entity may submit 
an approved application within 2 months of 
the date on which the State or entity’s previous 
application was disapproved, the Secretary 
shall submit a report to Congress explaining 
such failure.’’. 

(d) CLARIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH 
GROUP COVERAGE OPTION.—Subsection 
(g) of section 35 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 (relating to special rules) is 
amended— 
(1) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph 
(10); and 
(2) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following: 
‘‘(9) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH GROUP COVERAGE 
OPTION.— 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If any State has not 
elected to have treated as qualified health 
insurance under this section at least— 

‘‘(i) the coverage described in subparagraph 
(C), (D), (E), or (F)(i) of subsection (e)(1), or 

‘‘(ii) only if the coverage is under a group 
health plan and the plan satisfies the applicable 
requirements of section 9802, the coverage 
described in subparagraph (F)(ii), 
(F)(iii), (F)(iv), (G), or (H) of subsection 
(e)(1), 
the State, not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this paragraph, 
shall develop in consultation with representatives 
of eligible individuals and their qualifying 
family members, coverage options that 
are to be treated as qualified health insurance 
under this section and that include at 
least one of the coverage options described in 
clause (i) or (ii). 

‘‘(B) OPM.—In the case of any State that 
fails to satisfy the requirement of subparagraph 
(A), the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management is authorized to establish 
group health plan options, including low 
cost options, for eligible individuals and 
qualifying family members of such individuals 
in the State that shall be treated as 
qualified health insurance under this section.’’. 



S4776 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

(e) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Effective as if 
included in the enactment of the Trade Act 
of 2002 (Public Law 107–210; 116 Stat. 933), 
subsection (f) of section 203 of that Act is repealed. 
SEC. 1006. ALIGNMENT OF COBRA COVERAGE 
WITH TAA PERIOD FOR TAA-ELIGIBLE 
INDIVIDUALS. 

(a) ERISA.—Section 605(b) of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 
U.S.C. 1165(b)) is amended— 
(1) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
‘‘AND COVERAGE’’ after ‘‘ELECTION’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (2)— 
(A) in the paragraph heading, by inserting 
‘‘AND PERIOD’’ after ‘‘COMMENCEMENT’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘and shall’’ and inserting ‘‘, 
shall’’; and 
(C) by inserting ‘‘, and in no event shall the 
maximum period required under section 
602(2)(A) be less than the period during which 
the individual is a TAA-eligible individual’’ 
before the period at the end. 
(b) INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986.—Section 
4980B(f)(5)(C) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended— 
(1) in the subparagraph heading, by inserting 
‘‘AND COVERAGE’’ after ‘‘ELECTION’’; and 
(2) in clause (ii)— 
(A) in the clause heading, by inserting 
‘‘AND PERIOD’’ after ‘‘COMMENCEMENT’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘and shall’’ and inserting ‘‘, 
shall’’; and 
(C) by inserting ‘‘, and in no event shall the 
maximum period required under paragraph 
(2)(B)(i) be less than the period during which 
the individual is a TAA-eligible individual’’ 
before the period at the end. 
(c) PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT.—Section 
2205(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300bb–5(b)) is amended— 
(1) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
‘‘AND COVERAGE’’ after ‘‘ELECTION’’; and 
(2) in paragraph (2)— 
(A) in the paragraph heading, by inserting 
‘‘AND PERIOD’’ after ‘‘COMMENCEMENT’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘and shall’’ and inserting ‘‘, 
shall’’; and 
(C) by inserting ‘‘, and in no event shall the 
maximum period required under section 
2202(2)(A) be less than the period during 
which the individual is a TAA-eligible individual’’ 
before the period at the end. 
SEC. 1007. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR OPERATION 
OF STATE HIGH RISK HEALTH 
INSURANCE POOLS. 

(a) EXTENSION OF SEED GRANTS.—Section 
2745 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300gg–45) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), in the subsection 
heading by inserting ‘‘EXTENSION OF’’ before 
‘‘SEED’’; and 
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking 
‘‘$20,000,000’’ and all that follows through 
‘‘2003’’ and inserting ‘‘$15,000,000 for the period 
of fiscal years 2004 and 2005’’. 
(b) FUNDS FOR OPERATIONS.—Section 2745 of 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300gg–45) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (b)— 
(A) in the subsection heading by striking 
‘‘MATCHING’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(2) ALLOTMENT.—The amounts appropriated 
under subsection (c)(2) for a fiscal 
year shall be made available to the States 
(or the entities that operate the high risk 
pool under applicable State law) as follows: 

‘‘(A) An amount equal to 50 percent of the 
appropriated amount for the fiscal year shall 
be allocated in equal amounts among each 
eligible State that applies for assistance 
under this subsection. 

‘‘(B) An amount equal to 25 percent of the 
appropriated amount for the fiscal year shall 
be allocated among the States so that the 
amount provided to a State bears the same 

ratio to such available amount as the number 
of uninsured individuals in the State 
bears to the total number of uninsured individuals 
in all States (as determined by the 
Secretary). 

‘‘(C) An amount equal to 25 percent of the 
appropriated amount for the fiscal year shall 
be allocated among the States so that the 
amount provided to a State bears the same 
ratio to such available amount as the number 
of individuals enrolled in health care 
coverage through the qualified high risk pool 
of the State bears to the total number of individuals 
so enrolled through qualified high 
risk pools in all States (as determined by the 
Secretary).’’; and 

(2) in subsection (c)(2), by striking 
‘‘$40,000,000’’ and all that follows through the 
period and inserting ‘‘$75,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2005 through 2009 to make allotments 
under subsection (b)(2).’’. 
(c) DEFINITIONS.—Section 2745 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg–45) is 
amended— 
(1) in subsection (d), by inserting after 
‘‘2744(c)(2)’’ the following: ‘‘, except that 
with respect to subparagraph (A) of such section 
a State may elect to provide for the enrollment 
of eligible individuals through an 
acceptable alternative mechanism,’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(e) STANDARD RISK RATE.—In subsection 
(b)(1)(A), the term ‘standard risk rate’ means 
a rate— 

‘‘(1) determined under the State high risk 
pool by considering the premium rates 
charged by other health insurers offering 
health insurance coverage to individuals in 
the insurance market served; 

‘‘(2) that is established using reasonable 
actuarial techniques; and 

‘‘(3) that reflects anticipated claims experience 
and expenses for the coverage involved.’’. 


SEC. 1008. NOTICE REQUIREMENTS. 

Section 7527 of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 (relating to advance payment of credit 
for health insurance costs of eligible individuals), 
as amended by section 1001, is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(f) INCLUSION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.— 
The notice by the Secretary (or by any person 
or entity designated by the Secretary) 
that an individual potentially is eligible for 
a qualified health insurance costs credit eligibility 
certificate shall include— 

‘‘(1) the name, address, and telephone number 
of the State office or offices responsible 
for determining that the individual is eligible 
for such certificate and for providing the 
individual with assistance with enrollment 
in qualified health insurance (as defined in 
section 35(e)); 

‘‘(2) a list of the coverage options, including 
the low cost options, that are treated as 
qualified health insurance (as so defined) by 
the State in which the individual resides; 
and 

‘‘(3) in the case of a TAA-eligible individual 
(as defined in section 
4980B(f)(5)(C)(iv)(II)), a statement informing 
the individual that the individual has 63 days 
from the date that is 5 days after the postmark 
date of such notice to enroll in such insurance 
without a lapse in creditable coverage 
(as defined in section 9801(c)).’’. 

SEC. 1009. ANNUAL REPORT ON ENHANCED TAA 
BENEFITS. 

Not later than October 1 of each year (beginning 
in 2004) the Secretary of the Treasury, 
after consultation with the Secretary of 
Labor, shall report to the Committee on Finance 
and the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate 
and the Committee on Ways and Means and 
the Committee on Education and the Workforce 
of the House of Representatives the fol


lowing information with respect to the most 
recent taxable year ending before such date: 

(1) The total number of participants utilizing 
the health insurance tax credit under 
section 35 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986, including a measurement of such participants 
identified— 
(A) by State, and 
(B) by coverage under COBRA continuation 
provisions (as defined in section 9832(d)(1) of 
such Code) and by non-COBRA coverage (further 
identified by group and individual market). 
(2) The range of monthly health insurance 
premiums offered and the average and median 
monthly health insurance premiums offered 
to TAA-eligible individuals (as defined 
in section 4980B(f)(5)(C)(iv)(II) of such Code) 
under COBRA continuation provisions (as defined 
in section 9832(d)(1) of such Code), 
State-based continuation coverage provided 
under a State law that requires such coverage, 
and each category of coverage described 
in section 35(e)(1) of such Code, identified 
by State and by the actuarial value of 
such coverage and the specific benefits provided 
and cost-sharing imposed under such 
coverage. 
(3) The number of States applying for and 
receiving national emergency grants under 
section 173(f) of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2918(f)) and the time 
necessary for application approval of such 
grants. 
(4) The cost of administering the health 
credit program under section 35 of such Code, 
by function, including the cost of subcontractors. 
TITLE XI—MORTGAGE PAYMENT 
ASSISTANCE 
SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the ‘‘Homestead 
Preservation Act’’. 

SEC. 1102. MORTGAGE PAYMENT ASSISTANCE. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.—The Secretary 
of Labor (referred to in this section as 
the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall establish a program 
under which the Secretary shall award low-
interest loans to eligible individuals to enable 
such individuals to continue to make 
mortgage payments with respect to the primary 
residences of such individuals. 
(b) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible to receive a 
loan under the program established under 
subsection (a), an individual shall— 
(1) be— 
(A) an adversely affected worker with respect 
to whom a certification of eligibility 
has been issued by the Secretary of Labor 
under chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271 et seq.); or 
(B) an individual who would be an individual 
described in subparagraph (A) but who 
resides in a State that has not entered into 
an agreement under section 239 of such Act 
(19 U.S.C. 2311); 
(2) be a borrower under a loan which requires 
the individual to make monthly mortgage 
payments with respect to the primary 
place of residence of the individual; and 
(3) be enrolled in a job training or job assistance 
program. 
(c) LOAN REQUIREMENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—A loan provided to an eligible 
individual under this section shall— 
(A) be for a period of not to exceed 12 
months; 
(B) be for an amount that does not exceed 
the sum of— 
(i) the amount of the monthly mortgage 
payment owed by the individual; and 
(ii) the number of months for which the 
loan is provided; 
(C) have an applicable rate of interest that 
equals 4 percent; 
(D) require repayment as provided for in 
subsection (d); and 

May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4777 

(E) be subject to such other terms and conditions 
as the Secretary determines appropriate. 
(2) ACCOUNT.—A loan awarded to an individual 
under this section shall be deposited 
into an account from which a monthly mortgage 
payment will be made in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of such loan. 
(d) REPAYMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—An individual to which a 
loan has been awarded under this section 
shall be required to begin making repayments 
on the loan on the earlier of— 
(A) the date on which the individual has 
been employed on a full-time basis for 6 consecutive 
months; or 
(B) the date that is 1 year after the date on 
which the loan has been approved under this 
section. 
(2) REPAYMENT PERIOD AND AMOUNT.— 
(A) REPAYMENT PERIOD.—A loan awarded 
under this section shall be repaid on a 
monthly basis over the 5-year period beginning 
on the date determined under paragraph 
(1). 
(B) AMOUNT.—The amount of the monthly 
payment described in subparagraph (A) shall 
be determined by dividing the total amount 
provided under the loan (plus interest) by 60. 
(C) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in 
this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit 
an individual from— 
(i) paying off a loan awarded under this 
section in less than 5 years; or 
(ii) from paying a monthly amount under 
such loan in excess of the monthly amount 
determined under subparagraph (B) with respect 
to the loan. 
(e) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 6 weeks 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall promulgate regulations necessary 
to carry out this section, including 
regulations that permit an individual to certify 
that the individual is an eligible individual 
under subsection (b). 
(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There is authorized to be appropriated to 
carry out this section, $10,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2005 through 2008. 
TITLE XII—MISCELLANEOUS 

SEC. 1201. DEFINITION OF VALID TAXPAYER 

IDENTIFICATION NUMBER FOR 

EARNED INCOME CREDIT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 32(m) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘(m) IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS.—Solely for 
purposes of subsections (c)(1)(F) and 
(c)(3)(D), a taxpayer identification number 
means a social security number assigned by 
the Social Security Administration— 

‘‘(1) to a citizen of the United States, or 
‘‘(2) to an individual pursuant to subclause 

(I) (or that portion of subclause (III) that relates 
to subclause (I)) of section 
205(c)(2)(B)(i) of the Social Security Act.’’. 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment 
made by this section shall apply to taxable 
years beginning after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
f 

PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR 

Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that David Hickey, 
who is an intern in my office, be granted 
floor privileges during my discussion 
of this amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the following 
fellows and interns be granted the 
privilege of the floor during consideration 
of the JOBS bill: Steve Beasley, 

Diana Birkett, Leopold Brandenburg, 
Simon Chabel, Jodi George, Scott 
Landes, Pascal Niedermann, David 
Schwartz, Matt Stokes, and Trace 
Taxton. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

APPOINTMENT 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair, on behalf of the majority leader, 
pursuant to Public Law 108–199, Title 
VI, Section 637, appoints the following 
individual to serve as a member of the 
Helping to Enhance the Livelihood of 
People (HELP) Around the Globe Commission: 
Dr. Marty LaVor of Virginia. 

f 

NATIONAL ELECTRICAL SAFETY 
MONTH 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
now proceed to the immediate consideration 
of Calendar No. 486, S. Res. 
334. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 334) designating May 
2004 as National Electrical Safety Month. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the resolution 
be agreed to, the preamble be 
agreed to, the motions to reconsider be 
laid upon the table en bloc, and that 
any statements relating to the resolution 
be printed in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The resolution (S. Res. 334) was 
agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

The resolution, with its preamble, 

reads as follows: 
S. RES. 334 
Whereas hundreds of individuals die and 
thousands are injured each year in electrical 
accidents; 
Whereas there are on average 870 civilian 
deaths annually related to home fires caused 
by electrical distribution, appliances and 
equipment, and heating and air conditioning 
systems; 
Whereas more than 2 people are electrocuted 
in the home, and 4 more in the workplace, 
each week; 
Whereas property damage due to home 
fires caused by electrical distribution, appliances 
and equipment, and heating and air 
conditioning systems amounts to nearly 
$1,600,000,000 annually; 
Whereas following basic electrical safety 
precautions can help prevent injury or death 
to thousands of individuals each year; 
Whereas citizens are encouraged to check 
their home and workplace for possible electrical 
hazards to help protect lives and property; 
Whereas citizens are encouraged to test 
their smoke detectors and ground fault circuit 
interrupters monthly and after every 
major electrical storm; and 
Whereas the efforts of the Electrical Safety 
Foundation International (ESFI) and the 
United States Consumer Product Safety 

Commission (CPSC) promote and educate the 
public about the importance of respecting 
electricity and practicing electrical safety in 
the home, school, and workplace: Now, 
therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) designates May 2004 as ‘‘National Electrical 
Safety Month’’; and 
(2) requests that the President issue a 
proclamation calling upon the people of the 
United States to observe the month with appropriate 
programs and activities. 
f 

WELCOMING THE PRIME MINISTER 
OF SINGAPORE 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of Calendar No. 491, S. Res. 344. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 344) welcoming the 
Prime Minister of Singapore on the occasion 
of his visit to the United States, expressing 
gratitude to the Government of Singapore 
for its support in the reconstruction of Iraq 
and its strong cooperation with the United 
States in the campaign against terrorism, 
and reaffirming the commitment of the Senate 
to the continued expansion of friendship 
and cooperation between the United States 
and Singapore. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the resolution 
and preamble be agreed to en 
bloc, the motions to reconsider be laid 
upon the table en bloc, and any statements 
relating thereto be printed in 
the RECORD, with no intervening action. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The resolution (S. Res. 344) was 
agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

The resolution, with its preamble, 

reads as follows: 
S. RES. 344 
Whereas the United States and Singapore 
have a strong and enduring friendship; 
Whereas the United States and Singapore 
share a common vision in ensuring the continued 
peace, stability, and prosperity of the 
Asia-Pacific region; 
Whereas Singapore is a member of the coalition 
for the reconstruction of Iraq and is a 
strong supporter of the efforts of the coalition 
to stabilize and rebuild Iraq; 
Whereas Singapore is a steadfast partner 
with the United States in the global campaign 
against terrorism and has worked 
closely with the United States to fight terrorism 
around the world; 
Whereas Singapore is a core member of the 
Proliferation Security Initiative and is committed 
to preventing the proliferation of 
weapons of mass destruction; 
Whereas Singapore has provided valuable 
support to the United States Armed Forces, 
including permitting such Forces to use the 
state-of-the-art Changi Naval Base; 
Whereas Singapore is the 11th largest trading 
partner of the United States; 
Whereas Singapore was the first country in 
Asia to enter into a free trade agreement 
with the United States; 
Whereas Singapore, which has one of the 
busiest ports in the world, was the first 
country in Asia to join the Container Security 
Initiative (CSI), a key initiative of the 


S4778 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE May 3, 2004 

United States Customs Service that is designed 
to prevent terrorist attacks through 
the use of cargo; 

Whereas Singapore is a leader in biological 
research, has established a regional Emerging 
Diseases Intervention Center, and is 
leading efforts to respond to new health 
threats, including emerging diseases and the 
use of biological agents; 

Whereas the relationship between the 
United States and Singapore is reinforced by 
strong ties of culture, values, commerce, and 
scientific cooperation; and 

Whereas relationship and international cooperation 
between the United States and 
Singapore is important and valuable to both 
countries: Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) welcomes the Prime Minister of Singapore, 
His Excellency Goh Chok Tong, to the 
United States; 
(2) expresses profound gratitude to the 
Government of Singapore for its assistance 
in Iraq and its support in the global campaign 
against terrorism; and 
(3) reaffirms the commitment of the 
United States to the continued expansion of 
friendship and cooperation between the 
United States and Singapore. 
f 

ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, MAY 4, 
2004 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it 
adjourn until 9:45 a.m. tomorrow, Tuesday 
May 4. I further ask that following 
the prayer and pledge, the morning 
hour be deemed expired, the Journal of 
proceedings be approved to date, and 
following the time for the two leaders, 
the Senate then begin a period of 
morning business for up to 60 minutes, 
with the first 30 minutes under the 
control of the majority leader or his 
designee and the final 30 minutes under 
the control of the Democratic leader or 
his designee; provided that following 
morning business, the Senate resume 
consideration of Calendar No. 381, S. 
1637, the FSC/ETI JOBS bill, and the 
time until 12:30 p.m. be equally divided 
between the chairman and ranking 
member of the Finance Committee or 
their designees. 

I further ask consent that the Senate 
recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for 
the weekly party luncheons. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

PROGRAM 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, tomorrow, 
following morning business, 
the Senate will resume consideration 
of the JOBS bill. The chairman and 
ranking member of the Finance Committee 
will be here throughout the day 
tomorrow to work through additional 
amendments. Rollcall votes should be 
expected throughout the day tomorrow 
as the Senate continues the amending 
process on the JOBS bill. Senators will 
be notified when the first vote is scheduled. 
However, no votes are expected 
prior to the policy luncheon recess. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Nevada. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, if the Senator 
will yield for a question, tomorrow 
we have our usual party luncheons, 
as has already been announced. We also 
have the First Lady’s dinner that we 
will go to on a bipartisan basis tomorrow 
evening, starting at about 6:30, so 
it is going to be a short day tomorrow. 

The overtime issue has been kicking 
around here for a while. That amendment 
has been laid down with a couple 
of others. I am wondering if the Senator 
from Kentucky is going to be in a 
position to offer a companion to the 
overtime amendment that we have offered 
so we can vote on those sometime 
tomorrow. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
say to my friend from Nevada, it is 
likely there will be a side-by-side 
amendment offered. It is also likely we 
will get to vote on both of those 
amendments tomorrow. I would not 
want to call it a guarantee at this 
point, but I think it extremely likely 
we will be able to vote on both tomorrow. 


Mr. REID. Mr. President, I say to my 
friend, if we could get rid of the overtime 
issue and move on to some of the 
other matters, I think we can move 
through these amendments. As the 
Senator will recall, we had 18 on our 
side originally that we had whittled 
down to. When the majority came back 
with a larger number, we added some 
to it. But I still think we have 18 
amendments, and maybe even that is a 
puffy number. We also, on the 18, had 
time agreements on every one of them. 

So we are ready to move through 
those. The managers have indicated 
they could probably accept some of our 
18. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
know I am safe in saying the majority 
leader wants to finish this bill this 
week. I do understand that part of the 
problem lies on this side of the aisle 
with the proliferation of amendments 
prior to the agreement we entered into 
limiting the amendments. We will be 
working hard on this side of the aisle 
to narrow the list and put us in a position 
to complete action on this bill this 
week. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:45 A.M. 
TOMORROW 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if 
there is no further business to come before 
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate stand in adjournment 
under the previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 6:56 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, 
May 4, 2004, at 9:45 a.m. 

f 

NOMINATIONS 

Executive nominations received by 
the Senate May 3, 2004: 

IN THE AIR FORCE 

THE FOLLOWING NAMED UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
RESERVE OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT AS CHIEF OF AIR 
FORCE RESERVE, AND APPOINTMENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED 
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE 
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., 
SECTION 8036 AND 601: 

To be lieutenant general 

MAJ. GEN. JOHN A. BRADLEY, 0000 

IN THE ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED 
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND 
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601: 

To be lieutenant general 

MAJ. GEN. DAVID H. PETRAEUS, 0000 

IN THE NAVY 

THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED 
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND 
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601: 

To be admiral 

ADM. MICHAEL G. MULLEN, 0000 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E721 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS 
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4, 
agreed to by the Senate on February 4, 
1977, calls for establishment of a system 
for a computerized schedule of all 
meetings and hearings of Senate committees, 
subcommittees, joint committees, 
and committees of conference. 
This title requires all such committees 
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest—designated by the Rules Committee—
of the time, place, and purpose 
of the meetings, when scheduled, and 
any cancellations or changes in the 
meetings as they occur. 
As an additional procedure along 
with the computerization of this information, 
the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest will prepare this information for 
printing in the Extensions of Remarks 
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
on Monday and Wednesday of each 
week. 
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, May 
4, 2004 may be found in the Daily Digest 
of today’s RECORD. 

MEETINGS SCHEDULED 

MAY 5 
9 a.m. 
Armed Services 
Personnel Subcommittee 
Closed business meeting to markup those 
provisions, which fall within the jurisdiction 
of the subcommittee, of proposed 
legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military 
activities of the Department of 
Defense. 
SR–232A 

9:30 a.m. 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
To hold closed hearings to examine the 
use of steroids. 
SR–253 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 

To hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 2005 for defense 
related programs. 

SD–192 
10 a.m. 
Judiciary 

To hold an oversight hearing to examine 
material support statute relating to 
aiding terrorists. 

SD–226 
Armed Services 
Readiness and Management Support Sub


committee 

Closed business meeting to markup those 
provisions, which fall within the jurisdiction 
of the subcommittee, of proposed 
legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military 
activities of the Department of 
Defense. 

SR–222 
Finance 
Social Security and Family Policy Sub


committee 
To hold hearings to examine the benefits 
of a healthy marriage. 
SD–215 

11:30 a.m. 
Armed Services 
Strategic Forces Subcommittee 
Closed business meeting to markup those 
provisions, which fall within the jurisdiction 
of the subcommittee, of proposed 
legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military 
activities of the Department of 
Defense. 

SR–232A 

2:30 p.m. 
Armed Services 
Closed business meeting to markup proposed 
legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military 
activities for the Department of 
Defense. 
SR–222 
Energy and Natural Resources 
Public Lands and Forests Subcommittee 

To hold hearings to examine S. 155, to 
convey to the town of Frannie, Wyoming, 
certain land withdrawn by the 
Commissioner of Reclamation, S. 2285, 
to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
to convey a parcel of real property to 
Beaver County, Utah, S. 1521, to direct 
the Secretary of the Interior to convey 
certain land to the Edward H. 
McDaniel American Legion Post No. 22 
in Pahrump, Nevada, for the construction 
of a post building and memorial 
park for use by the American Legion, 
other veterans’ groups, and the local 
community, S. 1826, to direct the Secretary 
of the Interior to convey certain 
land in Washoe County, Nevada, to the 
Board of Regents of the University and 
Community College System of Nevada, 

S. 2085, to modify the requirements of 
the land conveyance to the University 
of Nevada at Las Vegas Research Foundation, 
and H.R. 1658, to amend the 
Railroad Right-of-Way Conveyance 
Validation Act to validate additional 
conveyances of certain lands in the 
State of California that form part of 
the right-of-way granted by the United 
States to facilitate the construction of 
the transcontinental railway. 
SD–366 

Commerce, Science, and Transportation 

Science, Technology, and Space Sub


committee 
To hold hearings to examine space shuttle 
and the future of space launch. 
SR–253 

MAY 6 

9:30 a.m. 
Armed Services 
Closed business meeting to markup proposed 
legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military 
activities for the Department of 
Defense. 

SR–222 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
To hold hearings to examine impacts of 
climate change and states’ actions. 
SR–253 
Judiciary 
Business meeting to consider pending 
calendar business. 
SD–226 

10 a.m. 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
To hold hearings to examine new opportunities 
for agriculture, focusing on 
biomass use in energy production. 
SD–106 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
Business meeting to mark up an original 
bill, The Public Transportation Terrorism 
Prevention Act. 
SD–538 
Governmental Affairs 
Oversight of Government Management, the 
Federal Workforce, and the District of 
Columbia Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine S. 1668, to 
establish a commission to conduct a 
comprehensive review of Federal agencies 
and programs and to recommend 
the elimination or realignment of duplicative, 
wasteful, or outdated functions. 
SD–342 

2 p.m. 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
Children and Families Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine certain 
challenges facing military parents raising 
children. 
SD–430 

2:30 p.m. 
Judiciary 
To hold hearings to examine the nomination 
of Jonathan W. Dudas, of Virginia, 
to be Under Secretary of Commerce for 
Intellectual Property and Director of 
the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office. 

SD–226 

MAY 7 

9:30 a.m. 
Armed Services 
Closed business meeting to markup proposed 
legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military 
activities for the Department of 
Defense. 

SR–222 
Joint Economic Committee 
To hold a hearing to examine the employment 
situation for April. 
1334 LHOB 

MAY 11 
10 a.m. 
Energy and Natural Resources 
To hold hearings to examine the impacts 
and costs of last year’s fires, focusing 
on the problems faced last year and 
what problems agencies and the land 
they oversee may face next season, including 
aerial fire fighting assests and 
crew, and overhead availability. 
SD–366 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
Forestry, Conservation, and Rural Revitalization 
Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine conservation 
programs of the 2002 Farm bill. 
SD–628 
Governmental Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine tax payer 
dollars subsidizing diploma mills. 
SH–216 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E722 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks May 3, 2004 

MAY 12 Governmental Affairs 2 p.m. 

Time to be announced 
Indian Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine S. 1715, to 
amend the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act to provide 
further self-governance by Indian 
tribes. 
SR–485 

10 a.m. 
Appropriations 
Defense Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine proposed 
budget estimates for fiscal year 2005 for 
the Department of Defense. 
SD–192 

To continue hearings to examine tax 
payer dollars subsidizing diploma 
mills. 

SD–342 

MAY 13 
10 a.m. 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
To hold hearings to examine Commodity 
Futures Trading Commission regulatory 
issues. 
SD–106 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
Children and Families Subcommittee 
To hold hearings to examine causes, research 
and prevention of premature 
births. 
SD–430 

Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
To hold hearings to examine prescription 
drug reimportation. 
SD–430 

SEPTEMBER 21 
10 a.m. 
Veterans’ Affairs 
To hold joint hearings with the House 
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to examine 
the legislative presentation of 
the American Legion. 
345 CHOB 


Monday, May 3, 2004 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 
See Resume of Congressional Activity. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S4727–S4778 

Measures Introduced: One bill and two resolutions 
were introduced, as follows: S. 2375, S. Res. 348, 
and S. Con. Res. 102. Page S4767 

Measures Passed: 

National Electrical Safety Month: Senate agreed 
to S. Res. 334, designating May 2004 as National 
Electrical Safety Month. Page S4777 

Welcoming Prime Minister of Singapore: Senate 
agreed to S. Res. 344, welcoming the Prime Minister 
of Singapore on the occasion of his visit to the 
United States, expressing gratitude to the Government 
of Singapore for its support in the reconstruction 
of Iraq and its strong cooperation with the 
United States in the campaign against terrorism, and 
reaffirming the commitment of the Senate to the 
continued expansion of friendship and cooperation 
between the United States and Singapore. 

Pages S4777–78 

Jumpstart Our Business Strength (JOBS) Act: 

Senate resumed consideration of S. 1637, to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to comply with 
the World Trade Organization rulings on the FSC/ 
ETI benefit in a manner that preserves jobs and production 
activities in the United States, to reform and 
simplify the international taxation rules of the 
United States, taking action on the following 
amendments proposed thereto: Pages S4737–61 

Pending: 

Harkin Amendment No. 3107, to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to clarify provisions relating 
to overtime pay. Pages S4742–52 

Collins Amendment No. 3108, to provide for a 
manufacturer’s jobs credit. Pages S4752–53 

Wyden Amendment No. 3109, to provide trade 
adjustment assistance for service workers. 

Pages S4753–55 

A unanimous-consent-time agreement was reached 
providing for further consideration of the bill at 9:45 
a.m., on Tuesday, May 4, 2004. Page S4777 

Appointments: 

HELP Around the Globe Commission: The 
Chair, on behalf of the Majority Leader, pursuant to 
Public Law 108–199, Title VI, Section 637, appointed 
the following individual to serve as a member 
of the Helping to Enhance the Livelihood of 
People (HELP) Around the Globe Commission: Dr. 
Marty LaVor of Virginia. Page S4777 

Nominations Received: Senate received the fol


lowing nominations: 

1 Air Force nomination in the rank of general. 

1 Army nomination in the rank of general. 

1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral. 

Page S4778 
Messages From the House: Page S4766 
Measures Placed on Calendar: Page S4766 
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S4766 
Executive Communications: Pages S4766–67 
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S4767–69 

Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions: 

Pages S4769–70 

Additional Statements: Pages S4764–65 

Amendments Submitted: Pages S4770–77 

Privilege of the Floor: Page S4777 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 1 p.m., and adjourned 
at 6:56 p.m., until 9:45 a.m., on Tuesday, 
May 4, 2004. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks 
of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s Record on 
page S4778.) 

Committee Meetings 

No committee meetings were held. 

D436 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D437 

NEW PUBLIC LAWS 

(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D397) 

H.R. 1274, to direct the Administrator of General 
Services to convey to Fresno County, California, the 
existing Federal courthouse in that county. Signed 
on April 30, 2004. (Public Law 108–221) 
H.R. 2489, to provide for the distribution of 
judgment funds to the Cowlitz Indian Tribe. Signed 
on April 30, 2004. (Public Law 108–222) 
H.R. 3118, to designate the Orville Wright Federal 
Building and the Wilbur Wright Federal Building in 
Washington, District of Columbia. Signed on April 30, 
2004. (Public Law 108–223) 
H.R. 4219, to provide an extension of highway, highway 
safety, motor carrier safety, transit, and other programs 
funded out of the Highway Trust Fund pending 
enactment of a law reauthorizing the Transportation Equity 
Act for the 21st Century. Signed on April 30, 2004. 
(Public Law 108–224) 
h 

House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

The House was not in session today. The House 
will meet at 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, May 4, for 
Morning Hour debate and 2 p.m. for legislative 
business. 

Committee Meetings

No committee meetings were held. 

CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD 
Week of May 4 through May 8, 2004 

Senate Chamber 

On Tuesday, at 10:45 a.m., Senate will continue 
consideration of S. 1637, Jumpstart Our Business 
Strength (JOBS) Act. 

During the balance of the week, Senate may consider 
any other cleared legislative and executive business. 


Senate Committees 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: May 6, 
to hold hearings to examine new opportunities for agriculture, 
focusing on biomass use in energy production, 10 
a.m., SD–106. 
Committee on Appropriations: May 4, Subcommittee on 
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, to 
hold hearings to examine the final rule on overtime pay, 
9:30 a.m., SD–192. 
May 4, Subcommittee on District of Columbia, to hold 
hearings to examine public charter schools in the District 
of Columbia, 10 a.m., SD–138. 
May 5, Subcommittee on Defense, to hold hearings on 
proposed budget estimates for fiscal year 2005 for defense 
related programs, 9:30 a.m., SD–192. 
Committee on Armed Services: May 4, to hold a closed 
briefing on allegations of mistreatment of Iraqi prisoners, 
10 a.m., SR–222. 
May 4, Subcommittee on Airland, closed business 
meeting to markup those provisions, which fall within 

the jurisdiction of the subcommittee, of proposed legislation 
authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2005 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, 2:30 
p.m., SR–222. 

May 4, Subcommittee on SeaPower, closed business 
meeting to markup those provisions, which fall within 
the jurisdiction of the subcommittee, of proposed legislation 
authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2005 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, 3:30 
p.m., SR–232A. 

May 4, Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, 
closed business meeting to markup those provisions, 
which fall within the jurisdiction of the subcommittee, 
of proposed legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, 5 p.m., SR–222. 

May 5, Subcommittee on Personnel, closed business 
meeting to markup those provisions, which fall within 
the jurisdiction of the subcommittee, of proposed legislation 
authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2005 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense, 9 a.m., 
SR–232A. 

May 5, Subcommittee on Readiness and Management 
Support, closed business meeting to markup those provisions, 
which fall within the jurisdiction of the subcommittee, 
of proposed legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, 10 a.m., SR–222. 

May 5, Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, closed business 
meeting to markup those provisions, which fall 
within the jurisdiction of the subcommittee, of proposed 
legislation authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2005 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
11:30 a.m., SR–232A. 

May 5, Full Committee, closed business meeting to 
markup proposed legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military activities for the Department 
of Defense, 2:30 p.m., SR–222. 

May 6, Full Committee, closed business meeting to 
markup proposed legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military activities for the Department 
of Defense, 9:30 a.m., SR–222. 


D438 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST May 3, 2004 

May 7, Full Committee, closed business meeting to 
markup proposed legislation authorizing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2005 for military activities for the Department 
of Defense, 9:30 a.m., SR–222. 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: May 
6, business meeting to mark up an original bill, The 
Public Transportation Terrorism Prevention Act, 10 a.m., 
SD–538. 

Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: May 
4, to hold hearings to reauthorize the Satellite Home 
Viewers Improvement Act of 1999, 9:30 a.m., SR–253. 

May 4, Subcommittee on Competition, Foreign Commerce, 
and Infrastructure, to hold hearings to examine 
lessons learned from security at past Olympic Games, 
2:30 p.m., SR–253. 

May 5, Full Committee, to hold closed hearings to examine 
the use of steroids, 9:30 a.m., SR–253. 

May 5, Subcommittee on Science, Technology, and 
Space, to hold hearings to examine space shuttle and the 
future of space launch, 2:30 p.m., SR–253. 

May 6, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine 
impacts of climate change and states’ actions, 9:30 a.m., 
SR–253. 

Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: May 5, Subcommittee 
on Public Lands and Forests, to hold hearings 
to examine S. 155, to convey to the town of Frannie, 
Wyoming, certain land withdrawn by the Commissioner 
of Reclamation, S. 2285, to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
to convey a parcel of real property to Beaver County, 
Utah, S. 1521, to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
to convey certain land to the Edward H. McDaniel American 
Legion Post No. 22 in Pahrump, Nevada, for the 
construction of a post building and memorial park for use 
by the American Legion, other veterans’ groups, and the 
local community, S. 1826, to direct the Secretary of the 
Interior to convey certain land in Washoe County, Nevada, 
to the Board of Regents of the University and 
Community College System of Nevada, S. 2085, to modify 
the requirements of the land conveyance to the University 
of Nevada at Las Vegas Research Foundation, and 

H.R. 1658, to amend the Railroad Right-of-Way Conveyance 
Validation Act to validate additional conveyances 
of certain lands in the State of California that form part 
of the right-of-way granted by the United States to facilitate 
the construction of the transcontinental railway, 2:30 
p.m., SD–366. 
Committee on Finance: May 5, Subcommittee on Social 
Security and Family Policy, to hold hearings to examine 
the benefits of a healthy marriage, 10 a.m., SD–215. 

Committee on Governmental Affairs: May 6, Subcommittee 
on Oversight of Government Management, the 
Federal Workforce, and the District of Columbia, to hold 
hearings to examine S. 1668, to establish a commission 
to conduct a comprehensive review of Federal agencies 
and programs and to recommend the elimination or realignment 
of duplicative, wasteful, or outdated functions, 
10 a.m., SD–342. 

Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: May 
6, Subcommittee on Children and Families, to hold hearings 
to examine certain challenges facing military parents 
raising children, 2 p.m., SD–430. 

Committee on the Judiciary: May 5, to hold an oversight 
hearing to examine material support statute relating to 
aiding terrorists, 10 a.m., SD–226. 

May 6, Full Committee, business meeting to consider 
pending calendar business, 9:30 a.m., SD–226. 

May 6, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine 
the nomination of Jonathan W. Dudas, of Virginia, to be 
Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property 
and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office, 2:30 p.m., SD–226. 

Select Committee on Intelligence: May 4, closed business 
meeting to resume markup of proposed legislation authorizing 
funds for fiscal year 2005 for the intelligence 
community, 2:30 p.m., SH–219. 

House Committees 

Committee on Appropriations: May 6, Subcommittee on 
Defense, executive, on the National Foreign Intelligence 
Program Budget, 1:30 p.m., H–405 Capitol. 

Committee on Armed Services: May 5, Subcommittee on 
Projection Forces, to markup H.R. 4200, National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005, 11:30 a.m., 
2212 Rayburn. 

May 5, Subcommittee on Terrorism Unconventional 
Threats and Capabilities, to mark up H.R. 4200, National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005, 10 
a.m., 2118 Rayburn. 

May 5, Subcommittee on Total Force, to mark up 

H.R. 4200, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2005, 1 p.m., 2118 Rayburn. 
May 6, Subcommittee on Readiness, to mark up H.R. 
4200, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2005, 9 a.m., 2118 Rayburn. 

May 6, Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, to mark up 

H.R. 4200, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2005, 11 a.m., 2212 Rayburn. 
May 6, Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, 
to mark up H.R. 4200, National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2005, 1 p.m., 2118 Rayburn. 

Committee on Education and the Workforce: May 4, Subcommittee 
on Education Reform, hearing entitled 
‘‘Strengthening Vocational and Technical Education,’’ 2 
p.m., 2175M Rayburn. 

May 5, full Committee, to mark up the following bills: 

H.R. 2728, Occupational Safety and Health Small Business 
Day in Court Act of 2003; H.R. 2729, Occupational 
Safety and Health Review Commission Efficiency Act of 
2003; H.R. 2730, Occupational Safety and Health Independent 
Review of OSHA Citations Act of 2003; and 
H.R. 2731, Occupational Safety and Health Small Employer 
Access to Justice Act of 2003, 10:30 a.m., 2175 
Rayburn. 
Committee on Energy and Commerce: May 5, Subcommittee 
on Energy and Air Quality, hearing entitled ‘‘Alaska Natural 
Gas Pipeline Status Report,’’ 10 a.m., 2322 Rayburn. 


May 5, Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled 
‘‘Physician Fee Schedule: A Review of the Current Medicare 
Payment System,’’ 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn. 

May 6, Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer 
Protection, hearing entitled ‘‘Online Pornography: 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D439 

Closing the Doors on Pervasive Smut,’’ 10 a.m., 2322 
Rayburn. 

May 6, Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the 
Internet, hearing entitled ‘‘The ‘Dot Kids’ Internet Domain: 
Protecting Children Online,’’ 9:30 a.m., 2123 Rayburn. 


Committee on Financial Services: May 4, Subcommittee on 
Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored 
Enterprises, to continue hearings entitled ‘‘The FASB 
Stock Options Proposal: Its Effect on the U.S. Economy 
and Jobs,’’ 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn. 

May 5, Subcommittee on Housing and Community 
Opportunity, to consider H.R. 3755, Zero Downpayment 
Act of 2004, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn. 

May 6, Subcommittee on Domestic and International 
Monetary Policy, Trade, and Technology, hearing entitled 
‘‘Oversight of the Export-Import Bank of the United 
States,’’ 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn. 

Committee on Government Reform: May 5, hearing entitled 
‘‘Betting on Transparency: Toward Fairness and Integrity 
in the Interior Department’s Tribal Recognition Process,’’ 
10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn. 

May 5, Subcommittee on Energy Policy, Natural Resources 
and Regulatory Affairs, hearing entitled 
‘‘Wildfires in the West—Is the Bush Administration’s 
Response Adequate?’’ 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn. 

May 6, full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘What’s the 
Hold Up’’ A Review of Security Clearance Backlog and 
Reciprocity Issues Plaguing Today’s Government and Private 
Sector Workforce,’’ 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn. 

May 6, Subcommittee on Human Rights and Wellness, 
hearing entitled ‘‘Autism Spectrum Disorders: An Update 
on Federal Government Initiatives and Revolutionary 
New Treatment of Neurodevelopmental Diseases,’’ 2 
p.m., 2247 Rayburn. 

Committee on International Relations: May 5, hearing on 
Water Scarcity in the Middle East: Regional Cooperation 
as a Mechanism Toward Peace, 10:30 a.m., 2172 Rayburn. 


May 5, Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, hearing 
on H.R. 3447, Social Investment and Economic Development 
Fund for the Americas Act of 2003, 2:30 
p.m., 2200 Rayburn. 

May 6, full Committee, hearing on Ethnic Cleansing 
in Darfur: A New Front Opens in Sudan’s Bloody War; 
followed by mark up of H. Con. Res. 403, Condemning 
the Government of the Republic of the Sudan for its attacks 
against innocent civilians in the impoverished 
Darfur region of western Sudan, 10:30 a.m., 2172 Rayburn. 


Committee on the Judiciary: May 5, to mark up the following: 
H.J. Res. 83, Proposing an amendment to the 
Constitution of the United States regarding the appointment 
of individuals to fill vacancies in the House of Representatives; 
H.R. 2934, Terrorist Penalties Enhancement 
Act of 2003; H.R. 3179, Anti-Terrorism Intelligence 
Tools Improvement Act of 2003; a resolution Recognizing 
the 50th anniversary of Brown v. Board of Education; 
H.R. 3754, Fraudulent Online Identity Sanctions 
Act; H.R. 1731, Identity Theft Penalty Enhancement 
Act; S. 1301, Video Voyeurism Prevention Act of 2003; 

H.R. 1678, Anti-Hoax Terrorism Act of 2003; H.R. 
1302, Federal Courts Improvement Act of 2003; H.R. 
3632, Anti-Counterfeiting Amendments of 2003; and 
private relief bills, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn. 
May 6, Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual 
Property, to mark up the Satellite Home Viewer 
Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004, 10 a.m., 
2141 Rayburn. 

Committee on Resources: May 5, to mark up the following 
bills: H.R. 142, To amend the Reclamation Wastewater 
and Groundwatwer Study and Facilities Act to authorize 
the Secretary of the Interior to participate in the Inland 
Empire regional water recycling project, to authorize the 
Secretary to carry out a program to assist agencies in 
projects to construct regional brine lines in California, 
and to authorize the Secretary to participate in the Lower 
Chino Dairy Area desalination demonstration and reclamation 
project; H.R. 1014, Gateway Communities Cooperation 
Act; H.R. 2010, To protect the voting rights 
of members of the Armed Services in elections for the 
Delegate representing American Samoa in the United 
States House of Representatives; H.R. 2201, National 
War Permanent Tribute Historical Database Act; H.R. 
2663, To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to study 
the suitability and feasibility of designating Castle 
Nugent Farms located on St. Croix, Virgin Islands, as a 
unit of the National Park System; H.R. 2828, Water 
Supply, Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act; 

H.R. 2912, To reaffirm the inherent sovereign rights of 
the Osage Tribe to determine its membership and form 
of government; H.R. 2966, Right-to-Ride Livestock on 
Federal Lands Act of 2003; H.R. 2991, Inland Empire 
Regional Water Recycling Initiative; H.R. 3247, Trail 
Responsibility and Accountability for the Improvement of 
Lands Act of 2003; H.R. 3378, Marine Turtle Conservation 
Act of 2003; H.R. 3504, To amend the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act to redesignate 
the American Indian Education Foundation as the 
National Fund for Excellence in American Indian Education; 
H.R. 3505, to amend the Bend Pine Nursery 
Land Conveyance Act to specify the recipients and consideration 
for conveyance of the Bend Pine Nursery; H.R. 
3706, John Muir National Historic Site Boundary Adjustment 
Act; H.R. 3768, Timucuan Ecological and Historic 
Preserve Boundary Revision Act of 2004; H.R. 
3819, Lewis and Clark National Historical Park Designation 
Act of 2004; H.R. 3846, Tribal Forest Protection 
Act of 2004; H.R. 3874, To convey for public purposes 
certain Federal lands in Riverside County, California, that 
have been identified for disposal; H.R. 3932, To amend 
Public Law 99–338 to authorize the continued use of certain 
lands within the Sequoia National Park by portions 
of an existing hydroelectric project; and H.R. 4114, Migratory 
Bird Treaty Reform Act of 2004, 11 a.m., 1324 
Longworth. 
May 6, Subcommittee on National Parks, Recreation 
and Public Lands, hearing on H.R. 3283, Federal Lands 
Recreation Enhancement Act, 10 a.m., 1334 Longworth. 

Committee on Rules: May 4, to consider H.R. 4227, 
Middle-Class Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 
2004, 5 p.m., H–313 Capitol. 


D440 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST May 3, 2004 

Committee on Science: May 5, hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. 
Commission on Ocean Policy Preliminary Report,’’ 10 
a.m., 2318 Rayburn. 

Committee on Small Business: May 5, hearing entitled 
‘‘Improving the Regulatory Flexibility Act—H.R. 2345,’’ 
2 p.m., 2360 Rayburn. 

May 6, Subcommittee on Rural Enterprise, Agriculture 
and Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘The Benefits of Tax 
Incentives for Producers of Renewable Fuels and its impact 
on Small Businesses and Farmers,’’ 10 a.m., 311 
Cannon. 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: May 5, 
Subcommittee on Railroads, oversight hearing on Railroad 
Security, 11 a.m., 2167 Rayburn. 

May 6, Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime 
Transportation, hearing on H.R. 4251, Maritime Transportation 
Amendments of 2004, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn. 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, May 6, Subcommittee on 
Health, hearing on the following: H.R. 4020, State Veterans’ 
Homes Nurse Recruitment Act of 2004; H.R. 
4231, Department of Veterans Affairs Nurse Recruitment 
and Retention Act of 2004; H.R. 3849, Military Sexual 
Trauma Counseling Act of 2004; H.R. 4248, Homeless 
Veterans Assistance Reauthorization Act of 2004; and a 
measure to reform the qualifications and selection requirements 
for the position of the Under Secretary for Health, 

9:30 a.m., 334 Cannon. 
Committee on Ways and Means, May 5, to mark up H.R. 
4103, AGOA Acceleration Act of 2004, 2 p.m., 1100 
Longworth. 

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, May 4, executive, 
TTIC Briefing on Terrorist Threats, 4:30 p.m., 
H–405 Capitol. 

May 5, executive, hearing on DCI Wrap Up Budget, 
10 a.m., H–405 Capitol. 

May 5, Subcommittee on Human Intelligence, Analysis 
and Counterintelligence, execurive, hearing on Aligning 
CIA HUMINT, 2 p.m., H–405 Capitol. 

May 6, Subcommittee on Intelligence Policy and National 
Security, executive, briefing on Global Intelligence 
Update, 9 a.m., H–405 Capitol. 

Select Committee on Homeland Security. May 5, Subcommittee 
on Infrastructure and Border Security, hearing 
entitled ‘‘Maritime Security Operations within the Department 
of Homeland Security,’’ 2 p.m., room to be announced. 


May 6, full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Progress in 
Addressing Management Challenges at the Department of 
Homeland Security,’’ 10:30 a.m., 2318 Rayburn. 

Joint Meetings 

Joint Economic Committee: May 7, to hold a hearing to 
examine the employment situation for April, 9:30 a.m., 
1334 LHOB. 


May 3, 2004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD—DAILY DIGEST D441 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

SECOND SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED EIGHTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 20, 2004 through April 30, 2004 

Senate House Total 
Days in Session ................................... 53 43 . . 
Time in Session ................................... 405 hrs. 19' 255 hrs. 27' .. 
Congressional Record: 
Pages of proceedings ................... 4,726 2,491 . . 
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 719 . . 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 8 18 26 
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . . 
Bills in conference ............................... 1 8 . . 
Measures passed, total ......................... 101 152 253 
Senate bills .................................. 21 12 . . 
House bills .................................. 18 58 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 . . . . 
House joint resolutions ............... . . 2 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 7 5 . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... 12 19 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 42 56 . . 
Measures reported, total ...................... 55 69 124 
Senate bills .................................. 39 1 . . 
House bills .................................. 8 39 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 . . . . 
House joint resolutions ............... . . . . . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 2 . . . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 5 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 4 24 . . 
Special reports ..................................... . . 1 . . 
Conference reports ............................... . . 1 . . 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 199 94 . . 
Measures introduced, total .................. 459 765 1,224 
Bills ............................................. 370 557 . . 
Joint resolutions .......................... 10 12 . . 
Concurrent resolutions ................ 15 64 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 64 132 . . 
Quorum calls ....................................... . . 1 . . 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 77 97 . . 
Recorded votes .................................... . . 40 . . 
Bills vetoed ......................................... . . . . . . 
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . . 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 36 reports have been filed in the Senate, a total 
of 71 reports have been filed in the House. 
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 20, 2004 through April 30, 2004 
Civilian Nominations, totaling 327, (including 195 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 
Returned to White House ............................................................. 
45 
270 
11 
1 
Other Civilian Nominations, totaling 1321 (including 5 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 
1,093 
227 
1 
Air Force Nominations, totaling 7830, (including 3572 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
4,739 
3,091 
Army Nominations, totaling 1697, (including 594 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
1,517 
180 
Navy Nominations, totaling 4959 (including 2444 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
4,585 
374 
Marine Corps Nominations, totaling 1211 (including 2 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
1,199 
12 

Summary 

Total Nominations carried over from the First Session ......................... 6812 
Total Nominations received this Session ............................................... 10,533 
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 13,178 
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 4,154 
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 12 
Total Returned to the White House ..................................................... 1 


D442 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST May 3, 2004 

Next Meeting of the SENATE 

9:45 a.m., Tuesday, May 4 
Program for Tuesday: After the transaction of any 
morning business (not to extend beyond 10:45 a.m.), Senate 
will continue consideration of S. 1637, Jumpstart Our 
Business Strength (JOBS) Act. 

(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their 
respective party conferences.) 

Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

12:30 p.m., Tuesday, May 4 
House Chamber 
Program for Tuesday: To be announced. 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage 
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House 
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are 
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United 
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when 
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through 
GPO Access, a service of the Government Printing Office, free of charge to the user. The online database is updated each day the 
Congressional Record is published. The database includes both text and graphics from the beginning of the 103d Congress, 2d session (January 
1994) forward. It is available through GPO Access at www.gpo.gov/gpoaccess. Customers can also access this information with WAIS client 
software, via telnet at swais.access.gpo.gov, or dial-in using communications software and a modem at 202–512–1661. Questions or comments 
regarding this database or GPO Access can be directed to the GPO Access User Support Team at: E-Mail: gpoaccess@gpo.gov; Phone 
1–888–293–6498 (toll-free), 202–512–1530 (D.C. area); Fax: 202–512–1262. The Team’s hours of availability are Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 
5:30 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, except Federal holidays. ¶ The Congressional Record paper and 24x microfiche edition will be furnished by 
mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $252.00 for six months, $503.00 per year, or purchased as follows: 
less than 200 pages, $10.50; between 200 and 400 pages, $21.00; greater than 400 pages, $31.50, payable in advance; microfiche edition, $146.00 per 
year, or purchased for $3.00 per issue payable in advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be purchased for the same per 
issue prices. To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S. Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: 
Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250–7954, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), 
or fax to 202–512–2250. Remit check or money order, made payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, 
American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, 
permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, 
there are no restrictions on the republication of material from the Congressional Record. 
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received. 


