UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.04.25 13:00:12 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 112th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 158 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2012 No. 154 

House of Representatives 

The House met at 10 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Speaker pro tempore 
(Mr. HARPER). 

f 

DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO 
TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

December 4, 2012. 

I hereby appoint the Honorable GREGG 
HARPER to act as Speaker pro tempore on 
this day. 

JOHN A. BOEHNER, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 

MORNING-HOUR DEBATE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the order of the House of January 
17, 2012, the Chair will now recognize 
Members from lists submitted by 
the majority and minority leaders for 
morning-hour debate. 
The Chair will alternate recognition 
between the parties, with each party 
limited to 1 hour and each Member 
other than the majority and minority 
leaders and the minority whip limited 
to 5 minutes each, but in no event shall 
debate continue beyond 11:50 a.m. 

f 

THE J. WELLINGTON WIMPY 
REVENUE PLAN 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Well, yesterday the 
Republicans released a vague press release 
saying it constituted a 
counteroffer to the President’s road-
map to avoid driving over the fiscal 
cliff. 

Now, the Republican plan purports to 
cut $1.3 trillion and raise $800 billion in 
new revenues. It did contain four specifics. 
Four. 

Cut Medicare, specific number 1, $600 
billion. 

Cut Medicaid, pays for nursing homes 
for seniors, of course, priority number 
2. 

Cut the already inadequate COLA for 
seniors on Social Security, even 
though 40 percent of seniors depend 
principally or totally upon Social Security, 
and the COLA already underestimates 
inflation, particularly for 
medical care, prescription drugs, and 
other essentials they have to buy. Cut 
that. Not a driver of the deficit but, 
hey, why not? Cut that. 

One more specific, preserve the Bush-
era tax rates for income over $250,000. 
Now, there’s a big misunderstanding 
about that. It’s not a tax increase on 
everybody who earns over $250,000. It’s 
only the income over $250,000 that 
would get additional taxes if the Bush-
era rates went away and the President’s 
proposal was passed. 

But, no, they want to preserve that, 
totally preserve tax cuts for people 
with income over $250,000. They also 
want to preserve the reduced capital 
gains rate and dividends rate which 
principally benefits—who else—millionaires 
and billionaires. 

Now, they did promise the J. Wellington 
Wimpy revenue plan. Remember 
J. Wellington Wimpy? Popeye, I’ll 
gladly pay you Tuesday for a hamburger 
today. 

That’s their revenue plan. Next year 
we’ll close unspecified tax loopholes, 
but we’re going to lower the tax rates 
on investor income, lower the tax rates 
on the people at the top. But they’re 
going to raise $800 billion by closing 
unspecified loopholes. 

What would that be? 

Do they want to take away the middle 
class’ one tax shelter, that is, the 
ability to deduct the interest on their 
home mortgage? Probably. 

If they’re going to raise that $800 billion, 
it’s going to come from something 
pretty big, and they don’t want to 
touch the billionaire-millionaire job-
creator class. 

Now, that’s a pretty interesting position, 
and their position is the job creators 
who earn over $250,000 a year will 
go on strike, strike if their tax rates go 
up. They won’t produce jobs. 

Tell me about the jobs they have produced 
in the last decade with those tax 
cuts. It doesn’t seem to work, does it? 

But in the Clinton era, when their 
rates went up to 39.6 from 35, they paid 
a little bit more and, guess what, the 
economy boomed. We had 3.8 percent 
unemployment, we balanced the budget, 
and we paid down debt. 

But now they’re saying if they went 
back to those Clinton-era rates, disaster 
would result. Well, you know 
what? 

That’s the same thing they said when 
they opposed Clinton tax increases in 
’94. They said disaster will result. Not 
a single Republican, fiscal conservatives 
that they are, voted for the increases 
in taxes that President Clinton 
put forward, which ultimately led to a 
balanced budget and paying down debt 
for the first time in 50 years. Not one 
of them because they said it would 
bring economic disaster and, instead, it 
brought prosperity. 

So they just brought out that old 
broken record. They glued it back together, 
or maybe they, you know, 
translated it into a digital format or 
something, but they’re playing it 
again, and it’s as valid now as it was 
then. 

So it’s the same old plan. Stick it to 
the middle class, stick it to the seniors, 
and benefit the ultra-wealthy in 
this country. That’s not a new plan. 
That’s the same old broken record. 

f 

SAFER ACT FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT 
VICTIMS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. POE) for 5 minutes. 

b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 

. 
H6589 


H6590 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, one 
of the most marvelous scientific breakthroughs 
in the criminal justice system 
has been DNA evidence. I remember 
when I was a judge in the courthouse 
when DNA started being used at 
the courtroom. 

Prior to DNA, many times prosecutors 
and law enforcement had to rely 
on blood samples and fingerprints. But 
once DNA came in, we learned that everybody 
has a unique genetic makeup 
that can be tested and it can be traced 
to perpetrators of crime when they 
commit a crime, especially in sexual 
assault cases. 

And convictions have gone up. The 
evidence is better. The proof beyond a 
reasonable doubt is much more concrete 
in DNA cases. 

In 1985, there was a 13-year-old girl 
named Lavinia Masters. Lavinia lived 
in Dallas, Texas. One evening she told 
her folks good night. She went to her 
bedroom, which should be, Mr. Speaker, 
the safest place on Earth for children. 
Went to sleep, and during the 
middle of the night, she was woken up 
by an outlaw putting a knife to her 
throat. He sexually assaulted her. Then 
he snuck away in the darkness of the 
night. 

That was in 1985. She went to the 
hospital. Her parents took care of her 
medical needs. DNA evidence was 
taken from her and put in a ‘‘rape kit’’. 
It was given to the law enforcement 
authorities, but that DNA evidence 
from that sexual assault that night in 
1985 was not tested for 20 years. It sat 
on the shelf in a crime lab somewhere 
in Dallas, Texas. 

Because the Dallas Police Department 
had a new incentive to go and 
look at those old cases, this case was 
looked at 20 years later. That evidence 
was tested, and the Dallas Police Department 
discovered that Kevin Glen 
Turner had committed this crime back 
in 1985. But that was 20 years ago. The 
statute of limitations had run, and justice 
could not occur in Lavinia’s case 
because the system waited too long to 
find the outlaw. 

Kevin Turner turned out to be a 
criminal in other cases and ended up in 
the penitentiary for those crimes, but 
justice was denied for Lavinia, denied 
because of bureaucratic red tape. 

You see, Mr. Speaker, many rape kits 
sit on the shelves of evidence rooms 
across the country untested. Some of 
them sit there so long that they’re discarded 
by law enforcement, and the 
statute of limitations runs like it ran 
in Lavinia’s case. 

She is not alone, Mr. Speaker. There 
are 400,000 untested rape kits in this 
country—400,000, that’s a number; but 
every one of those represents a person. 
To try to put it in some perspective, 
there were a little over 400,000 Americans 
killed in World War II. They were 
killed by the enemies of our country. 
400,000, primarily young women, have 
been assaulted by rapists who try to 
kill the soul of these victims. It’s important 
that we not stop prosecuting 
these cases because of funding. 

That’s why I’ve introduced, along 
with Congresswoman MALONEY from 
New York, the bipartisan SAFER Act, 
companion bill with the bipartisan bill 
in the Senate by Senator CORNYN and 
Senator BENNET. 

The SAFER Act does a lot of good 
things, but basically it allows funding 
to go so to make sure that we test 
these cases. It audits these backlogs so 
that we know where these cases are 
that are sitting on the shelves. So it 
does the audit. It gets more funding. It 
brings these cases to justice so that we 
can make sure that these victims of 
crime have their day in court as well. 

b 1010 

DNA is a wonderful thing. It’s important 
that we make sure that that evidence 
is available for law enforcement, 
prosecutors, and judges in the courtroom. 


She was a child. Lavinia was a child 
when she was sexually assaulted. That 
was a long time ago. But there are 
400,000 cases waiting to be tested. This 
is something that we can do in a bipartisan 
way today, to test those cases so 
we can bring justice to the victims of 
crime and make sure those outlaws get 
their day in court as well and be held 
accountable for the rape of children in 
our country. 

And that’s just the way it is. 

f 

FIGHTING HIV/AIDS: A PILLAR OF 
SMART SECURITY 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. WOOLSEY) for 5 minutes. 


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, this 
past weekend, we observed World AIDS 
Day, a time to remember those lost to 
this horrific disease and to recommit 
ourselves to prevention, treatment 
and, ultimately, a cure. For more than 
30 years now, HIV/AIDS has exacted a 
huge toll, killing more than 25 million 
people. Every 9.5 minutes in our country, 
someone is infected. But this is 
predominantly a disease of the developing 
world. A shocking 33.4 million 
people are living with HIV/AIDS today, 
almost all in the world’s poorer countries, 
particularly sub-Saharan Africa. 
Too many of them don’t have access to 
the medication and overall health care 
infrastructure that they need. 

AIDS is linked to many other problems 
of poverty, malnutrition, and 
other infectious diseases as well. It 
contributes to instability and a sense 
of hopelessness in countries that are 
already susceptible to violence and terrorism. 
If we don’t contain and defeat 
this epidemic, it will undermine democratic 
governments, it will continue to 
impede economic growth overseas, and 
it will threaten us right here in the 
United States. In other words, this 
isn’t just an economic issue or a health 
care issue; it’s a national security 
issue. 

Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, over the 
last decade, ‘‘acting in our national se


curity interests’’ has come to mean invading 
and occupying foreign nations. 
The Iraq war lasted 9 years and was responsible 
for untold human misery. 
The Afghanistan war, now in its 12th 
year, continues to damage our national 
security interests instead of enhancing 
them. It hasn’t defeated the Taliban, 
nor has it alleviated crushing poverty 
or produced a stable democracy in Afghanistan. 
And then there’s the cost— 
some $10 billion a month. That would 
be a staggering amount of money for a 
successful policy. For a failed policy, 
it’s downright scandalous. And it is 
rarely mentioned in all the conversations 
about so-called deficit crises and 
fiscal cliffs. 

USAID and other civilian arms of 
government could do a world of good 
towards solving the AIDS crisis with a 
fraction of that money. Why does the 
Pentagon get a blank check while 
agencies that dispense aid have to fight 
for every single nickel that they receive? 
Why do we spend without restraint 
on wars and weapons that destroy 
lives but we squeeze those programs 
that save lives? 

For many years now—and you have 
all heard me; this is my 443rd 5-minute 
speech on this issue. For many years 
now, I have been promoting the idea of 
SMART Security. SMART Security 
means protecting our interests not 
with military force or by maintaining 
a massive nuclear arsenal, but by investing 
in development and diplomacy 
and through humanitarian assistance 
and partnerships around the world. 

At the AIDS Conference in Washington 
this past summer, there was a 
panel discussion on how, in the struggle 
against HIV/AIDS, we can do more 
with less. And what I want to know is: 
Why do we have to settle for less when 
it comes to HIV/AIDS? This is a humanitarian 
crisis. Our sense of moral 
decency should compel us to invest 
whatever it takes to bring an end to it. 

It’s not just the right thing, Mr. 
Speaker; it’s the smart thing to do for 
our national security. Let’s bring our 
troops home, let’s implement SMART 
Security now, and let’s have the resources 
available for what we really 
need to invest in around the world. 

f 

AFGHANISTAN 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. JONES) for 5 minutes. 


Mr. JONES. Mr. Speaker, I find it so 
ironic that our Nation is on the cliff of 
collapse and yet we continue to borrow 
money from China to prop up a corrupt 
leader in Afghanistan. Our country is 
in the most dire of fiscal straits, and 
we continue to send money to Afghanistan. 
The worst part is, the money we 
are sending, we cannot audit, and 
many times the taxpayers’ money ends 
up in the hands of the Taliban to buy 
weapons to kill Americans. 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6591 

Mr. Speaker, this poster beside me is 
a book that I read. The title is, ‘‘Funding 
the Enemy.’’ The subtitle is, ‘‘How 

U.S. Taxpayers Bankroll the Taliban.’’ 
I would like to quote Lisa Freeman, 
who recently acknowledged that we 
have lost 2,000 young Americans in Afghanistan. 
She lost her son, Captain 
Matthew Freeman, in 2007, in Afghanistan. 
Ms. Freeman said: 

Where is America’s outrage? Where is 
America’s concern that we’re still at war? 

I agree with Ms. Freeman. Where is 
the outrage here in Congress? Does it 
make any sense that we continue to 
borrow money from foreign governments 
to prop up a corrupt leader and 
half the money going to the leader of 
Afghanistan ends up in the hands of the 
Taliban to buy weapons to kill Americans? 
Our Nation is broke—China owns 
us—and we’re sending our young men 
and our money to Afghanistan, yet 
we’re going to cut programs right here 
in America for the American people. 

The American people need to put the 
pressure on Congress to bring our 
troops home now and not wait until 
December of 2014. Mr. Speaker, I assure 
you, if we start bringing them home in 
December of 2014, it will become 2015 
and it will become 2016, and how many 
more families have to cry about their 
loved ones being killed in a war that 
has no end to it? 

Mr. Speaker, again, I ask the people 
to look at this poster and realize that 
this war is costing us in so many, many 
ways—the most important, our young 
men and women who are dying. If you 
agree with me that we need to bring 
our troops home before the current December 
2014 deadline, please go to 
www.bringthemhome2013.com and sign 
the petition. 

Mr. Speaker, I have been to Walter 
Reed and Bethesda now so many times 
to see the broken bodies, to see the 
faces of the moms and dads with pain 
in their face, to see the young men or 
women’s faces that know that they will 
never be physically able to do what 
they had done before going to Afghanistan. 


With that, Mr. Speaker, I make one 
last reference. I would hope that colleagues 
of mine in both parties would 
read this book, ‘‘Funding the Enemy,’’ 
by Douglas Wissing, ‘‘How the U.S. 
Taxpayers Bankroll the Taliban.’’ 

This is a sin, and it must stop. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask God to please 
bless our men and women in uniform, 
to please bless the families of our men 
and women in uniform, to bless the 
families who have given a child dying 
for freedom in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
And I ask God to help this Congress 
come together with the Senate and 
come forward with a plan that we, the 
American people, can be proud of. I ask 
three times, God please, God please, 
God please continue to bless America. 

NAMES OF RECENTLY DECEASED IN 

AFGHANISTAN 
Spc. Daniel L. Carlson 
Pfc. Brandon L. Buttry 
Staff Sgt. Dain T. Venne 

Spc. Ryan P. Jayne 
Spc. Brett E. Gornewicz 
Petty Officer 2nd Class Matthew G. Kantor 
Cpl. Alex F. Domion 
Staff Sgt. Kashif M. Memon 
Sgt. Clinton K. Ruiz 
Chief Warrant Officer Michael S. Duskin 
Pfc. Shane G. Wilson 
Sgt. Robert J. Billings 
Spc. Brittany B. Gordon 
Cmdr. Joel Del Mundo Tiu 
Sgt. First Class Ryan J. Savard 
Sgt. Thomas R. Macpherson 
Culinary Specialist 2nd Class Milton W. 

Brown 
Warrant Officer Joseph L. Schiro 
Staff Sgt. Justin C. Marquez 
Sgt. Camella M. Steedley 
Sgt. 1st Class Daniel T. Metcalfe 
Sgt. Thomas J. Butler IV 
Sgt. Jeremy F. Hardison 
Sgt. Donna R. Johnson 
Sgt. 1st Class Aaron A. Henderson 
Sgt. 1st Class Riley G. Stephens 
Staff Sgt. Orion N. Sparks 
Sgt. Jonathan A. Gollnitz 

f 

b 1020 

DO WHAT’S RIGHT FOR THE 
AMERICAN PEOPLE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE) for 5 minutes. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Speaker, America has always been 
known to rise to the occasion—the 
American people, our values—when 
there is a need for us to come together. 
Just a few minutes ago, I sat in for a 
moment on the recapturing of the 
enormous bravery of those who were on 
Flight 93, Americans who came together 
and made a sacrifice. So although 
all my remarks will not speak 
to the issue of sacrifice, some of what 
I say this morning speaks to the values 
of the American people who always, 
when called upon, have said: Send me. 

But first I’d like to speak to an issue 
of just basic fairness. Let me give great 
respect to the constitutional premise 
that the Senate has the right to advice 
and consent. Of course that comes with 
the Presidential right to nominate persons 
to serve in his or her administration—
either at the Cabinet level, under 
Secretaries, various appointees— 
throughout the administration, administrations 
from years gone by. So I rise 
today to query the character assassination 
of Ambassador Susan Rice. She 
has not been nominated. 

We are so fortunate to have such a 
dynamic Secretary of State in Hillary 
Clinton, who has indicated her desire 
to leave the administration at the end 
of her term, but has also indicated her 
willingness to continue her work—recently 
in Syria, possibly even today in 
that devastating area. 

Certainly, her partner at the United 
Nations for 4 years in diligent, excellent, 
astute, thoughtful and patriotic 
service has been Susan E. Rice, a 
daughter of Washington, D.C. and parents 
who loved America, a graduate of 
Stanford University, where of course 
she earned department honors and university 
distinction, became a Harry S. 

Truman scholar, Phi Beta Kappa and a 
Rhodes scholarship, certainly a beginning 
that did not warrant the kind of 
personal attacks that we have seen. 

I think we should leave politics and 
campaigns and won or lost races to November 
6, 2012, for you cannot debate a 
political and Presidential campaign 
around a patriotic public servant. If 
there is a nomination for Ambassador 
Rice, the Senate has every right to advice 
and consent, and the votes need to 
be taken on up and down. 

I can assure you that if she is nominated 
by the President she will serve 
this Nation well, as she has done in the 
past. I know her well as the Assistant 
Secretary for African Affairs under the 
Clinton administration, dealing with 
very difficult issues involving African 
countries such as Ethiopia and Eretria, 
responsive and detailed. Why in the 
world, with others who may have been 
equally culpable in misunderstanding 
what actually occurred on that day— 
the tragic day where we should be 
speaking more to the loss of brave 
Americans in Benghazi, Libya—why is 
she the one that is pinpointed, pinpointed, 
pointed, and with, I think, inappropriate 
accusations, casting aspersions 
and doing damage to a reputation 
of service that is undeserving? 

So my words are simply this: let’s be 
fair. Let’s carry on our rights as Members 
of Congress to speak to the issue 
of what a tragic incident occurred in 
Benghazi. If there is a nomination— 
which I hope there will be—among the 
many talented people that the President 
has, it will be his choice. Senators 
that are eager, friends of mine, Senator 
KERRY and others, may have this opportunity. 
But let us hold to the 
premise that you are innocent until 
proven guilty, that someone’s great 
service is deserving of respect—and she 
is deserving of respect. Susan Rice is 
deserving of respect. 

Let me move quickly to this idea 
that America cannot settle its issues of 
financial concern before the fiscal 
deadline. See, there is no cliff, because 
as we all well know, the simple premise 
of making sure that we have tax cuts 
for those making $250,000 and below 
have the right to follow through on the 
President’s premise because this is 
what the American people voted on. 

Vote for the tax relief for $250,000 and 
below, Mr. Speaker, and move forward 
in reconciliation on doing the right 
thing for Medicare holders, Social Security, 
and Medicaid. None of that has 
anything to do with the deficit; therefore, 
we need to know that we are in a 
nonstarter position, Mr. Speaker. We 
need to go forward and reconcile to do 
what is right for the American people. 

f 

BUHLER, KANSAS, IS UNDER 
ASSAULT 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kansas (Mr. POMPEO) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. POMPEO. Mr. Speaker, today I 
rise in support of the 1,300 citizens of 


H6592 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

Buhler, Kansas—and indeed all Kansans—
and in fact all Americans who 
value religious freedom and religious 
liberty. 

The citizens of Buhler are under assault. 
They are the latest victims of an 
ungodly extortion racket perpetrated 
by the Freedom from Religion Foundation 
based in Madison, Wisconsin. 

On September 14, 2012, the Freedom 
from Religion Foundation sent a letter 
to the mayor of the town of Buhler, 
Daniel Friesen, alerting him to the 
foundation’s intent to sue the city for 
its city seal, which contained a cross, 
and for a billboard that included elements 
of that city seal that was in a 
city park. Mr. Speaker, this is an outrage. 
The seal and sign are harming no 
one; they are widely embraced by the 
citizens of Buhler, Kansas. 

The seal contains the words ‘‘traditional 
values’’ and ‘‘progressive ideas.’’ 
Unfortunately, in this case, progressive 
ideas are making war on traditional 
values, and it’s high time for that to 
stop. 

Some will claim that the First 
Amendment to the Constitution requires 
the cross to be removed from 
this seal and sign. That’s hogwash. The 
First Amendment begins with the 
words: ‘‘Congress shall make no law respecting 
an establishment of religion, 
or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.’’ 
In this instance, Congress made no 
law. For that reason alone the First 
Amendment does not apply. 

Furthermore, it cannot be said that 
this simple seal in any way is an establishment 
of religion; meaning that 
there is no officially supported sect or 
denomination here in the manner that 
some of the American colonies had. 
This is not in any way an endorsement 
of any particular religion or any religious 
denomination. 

In short, the First Amendment, as 
originally written, has nothing to do 
with this city’s sign. Indeed, for the 
first 175 years of our constitutional history, 
no one would have read the First 
Amendment in any way that would 
have prevented this seal or this sign. 

Mr. Speaker, in this very room in 
which I stand, this very Chamber, right 
over my right-hand shoulder is a sign 
that says ‘‘In God We Trust.’’ Near the 
rotunda of the Capitol is the Congressional 
Prayer Room, a chapel that’s 
been in use since 1955 as a place where 
Members go to pray for divine guidance 
in debating the issues of the day. A 
stained glass window there shows 
President George Washington kneeling 
in prayer and the words of Psalm 16:1 
surround him: ‘‘Preserve me, O God, for 
in thee do I put my trust.’’ And a Holy 
Bible rests on the alter beneath that 
window in this very building. 

Of course I grant you that the First 
Amendment has been badly interpreted 
by the U.S. Supreme Court. Indeed, the 
10th Circuit’s rulings are even more 
troubling. It could well be that in this 
case the city would lose this case. 

I don’t fault the citizens of Buhler, 
Kansas, for the process that they’re 

going through in trying to figure out 
how to proceed. Indeed, the Freedom 
from Religion Foundation knows this. 
They know that they’ve attacked a 
city, threatened to sue a city with very 
few resources. We will have a very difficult 
time battling an extended period 
of litigation. I do not fault the folks in 
Buhler at all for trying to figure out a 
way to move forward without resulting 
in litigation. 

But why didn’t the Freedom from Religion 
Foundation sue the United 
States Congress for all that I spoke 
about just a minute ago? The reason is 
obvious. The reason is they are being 
bullies. They are seeking to put their 
secular vision in a place where they believe 
they can do it without opposition, 
a place that has fewer resources. Folks 
will face a very, very difficult decision 
about how the town and the city should 
move forward. 

Mr. Speaker, I hope that this assault 
on religion in the public square will 
end soon. I am very saddened by the recent 
events in Buhler, Kansas. I am angered 
by the extortionary tactics of the 
Freedom from Religion Foundation. 
And, above all, I am determined to ensure 
that the religious heritage of our 
great Nation will not be cast aside. 

f 

b 1030 

AMERICA’S FINANCIAL FUTURE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Oregon (Mr. BLUMENAUER) for 5 minutes. 


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, 
there is a great deal of hyperactive 
rhetoric about the fiscal cliff and the 
trouble ahead. The fact is that people 
should just take a deep breath and 
focus on where we are and where we 
need to go. 

First of all, it’s not a fiscal cliff but 
a slope. There are many opportunities 
for us in the weeks ahead to be able to 
change the unsustainable trajectory of 
America’s financial future. There are 
many efforts already evident and people 
taking steps to try to cope with it. 

The President campaigned very explicitly 
on raising the top tax rates. It 
was something that was embraced by 
Democrats running for the Senate and 
virtually all of them running for the 
House. The President won. The Senate 
actually increased in Democratic numbers. 
There were more Democrats 
added to the House. And more Americans 
voted for the President and his vision, 
for the Senate Democrats, and for 
Democrats in the House than my Republican 
friends on the other side of 
the aisle. 

It’s encouraging that the President 
has decided that he’s no longer going 
to negotiate with himself. He’s laid out 
his positions and has encouraged a response. 
I, for one, was pleased that 
there was a proposal offered up by my 
Republican friends, signed not just by 
the Speaker but the entire Republican 
leadership. While it still does not have 

the specifics about what those elusive 
tax loopholes that they want to close 
are, which will raise sufficient revenue, 
I find this an encouraging sign that 
there is an effort, for the first time, to 
put something back, and I think there 
are opportunities for people to flesh 
out the details. There is an opportunity 
for tax reform; our system now 
is not efficient. It’s chaotic. It’s expensive. 
It’s unfair and perplexing. There 
is an opportunity for us going forward 
to add a little more rationality to it 
while it raises more revenue. 

There are countless opportunities in 
the Department of Defense to save 
money, starting with $250 billion in the 
nuclear arsenal for weapons that we 
will never use and don’t need. There 
are opportunities for agricultural reform. 
And it’s been my pleasure to 
work on bipartisan reform efforts with 
Senator-elect JEFF FLAKE of Arizona 
and my friend from Wisconsin, PAUL 
RYAN. And there are real opportunities 
in health care. 

Now I hope my Republican friends 
will stop the charade we went through 
this last 2 years repealing ObamaCare 
some 37 times. That train has left the 
station. The President was reelected. 
It’s not going to be repealed. The Supreme 
Court has decided that it’s constitutional. 
And most of the major 
health care players are busy at work 
implementing health care reform. But 
we have barely scratched the surface of 
the ability to squeeze more value out 
of the health care system. 

The United States does not have to 
spend nearly twice as much as all the 
other developed countries and actually 
have health care results that, on average, 
are worse than our European and 
Japanese friends. 

We have the best health care in the 
world for some Americans. But too 
many are denied regular health care, 
and others are paying too much for results 
that aren’t good enough. 

We know what to do: embedded in the 
health care reform act are elements of 
reform that used to have bipartisan 
support, starting with the mandate 
that was cosponsored by 16 Republican 
Senators, elements of reform that were 
implemented by Republican and Democratic 
Governors alike, including Governor 
Romney. It’s time for us to act 
on those elements, to accelerate the reform. 


I note with no small amount of irony 
that the $716 billion that the Republican 
ticket, Mr. Romney and Mr. 
RYAN, used to campaign against the 
President, PAUL RYAN’s budget included 
the same reductions, and it’s 
likely that they will be in his budget 
that’s coming forward. 

Let’s act on things that we agree. 
Let’s rebuild and renew America and 
find ways to save money and put us on 
the path to fiscal responsibility that 
the American public needs and demands. 



December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6593 

WHAT IS THE FISCAL CLIFF? 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. LANKFORD) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. LANKFORD. Well, in a few days, 
we’re going to have to resolve the fiscal 
cliff—ironically enough, something 
that the House of Representatives 
passed last May. In April, we set out a 
tax plan. In May, we set out a sequestration 
plan, passed it through the 
House, sent it to the Senate who said, 
We will see you during the lame duck 
time period. 
We are in the lame duck now, and 
this has to be resolved. We have to 
solve the problem. But quite frankly, 
the first thing we need to do is to be 
able to define what the problem even 
is. It seems that one group is talking 
about how the real problem is the fiscal 
cliff, and the other group is talking 
about how the real problem is the debt 
and the deficit. Well, what is the problem? 
The issue is, we have $16.3 trillion 
in debt as a Nation, $1 trillion or more 
in overspending each year for the last 4 
years. 
Let me set the example of what this 
really means: in 2007, our tax revenue— 
how much we are bringing into the 
Treasury—was almost exactly what it 
is in 2012. From 2007 to 2012, the revenue 
is almost identical. The difference 
is, our spending has gone up $1 trillion 
a year from 2007 to 2012, so now that’s 
$1 trillion total over the course of that 
time that’s slowly built up. But each 
year, we’ve been over $1 trillion in 
spending. While our revenue has stayed 
consistent, basically, from 2007 to 2012, 
that dramatic spending increase has 
happened. 
We seem to identify that as the real 
problem. We’re overspending. And until 
you deal with that issue, you cannot 
raise taxes enough to be able to keep 
up with $1 trillion of accelerated spending. 
So what is the cliff? And I have to 
tell you, I have so many people from 
my district and other places that catch 
me, pull me aside quietly and say, We 
hear about the fiscal cliff. We’re not 
even 100 percent sure of what it is. 
Well, it’s really the combination of 
three things: 
The first of them is, the ObamaCare 
taxes begin January 1 of next year. 
Those taxes will hit the middle class 
and the upper brackets. Those taxes, 
when they kick in, will raise the rates 
on people making $200,000 or more and 
will also remove deductions from the 
middle class, things like the flexible 
spending accounts. For those that have 
high medical bills, their taxes will now 
go up. For people that have high medical 
bills and are able to offset some of 
the taxes they pay because they pay 
more than 7.5 percent of their own income 
in medical bills, they will now 
have their taxes go up. So people like 
diabetics, heart patients, stroke patients, 
people with special needs children, 
their taxes all go up January 1, as 
well as people making $200,000 or more, 

their tax rates will also go up on January 
1. That’s the first part of the fiscal 
cliff. 

The second part of it is the spending 
decrease that this Congress and the 
President agreed to last summer. We 
have dramatically increased spending; 
we have to reduce that spending. That 
spending decrease that was agreed to 
had a deadline by the end of this year. 
If it didn’t, there would be across-the-
board cuts. The House passed all of our 
spending decreases in May. The Senate 
has yet to pass any. So with that, we’re 
stuck with across-the-board cuts that 
kick in early January. 

The third part of that is the expiration 
of the tax rates for all Americans. 
In 2001, in 2003, and then extended during 
the lame duck of 2010, every American’s 
tax rates were extended out to 
expire the 31st of December. Every tax 
rate from the lowest to the highest is 
set to go up. 

Now some people see that the problem 
is that we’re not taxing enough, 
and so that solves the problem—to just 
go off the fiscal cliff, and everyone will 
be taxed more. Some people see that we 
don’t take enough from one group and 
give to another group, so we can solve 
that. Some people have even said, Let’s 
go back to the Clinton tax rates; with 
the Clinton tax rates, we had a booming 
economy, and we were creating 
more jobs. Well, to that, I would say, 
well, if increasing taxes increases economic 
activity, why don’t we go to a 95 
percent tax rate, and then we’ll really 
have a booming economy. The reason 
that no one proposes that is because no 
one really believes that. That is why 
the accelerated tax rate that is being 
recommended by the White House is 
also being proposed with a stimulus 
plan, another spending plan to offset 
the damage that’s going to be done 
with the tax increases. 

Here is the example that I can talk 
about with this: when people talk 
about, just raise taxes on the upper 2 
percent, well, let me give you an example 
of what’s being proposed by the 
President. Capital gains will go from 15 
percent to 23.8 percent next year. Dividends 
would go from 15 percent to 43.4 
percent. 

Now I have a lot of people that will 
say to me, just raise it on the upper 
brackets. But when I tell them, can I 
tell you what that means—their taxes 
go from 15 percent to 43.4 percent—I 
have yet to have anyone stop me and 
say, Oh, that sounds fair. It doesn’t. It 
just sounds so much easier to say, raise 
it on someone else, not on us. 

We have to solve the problem. Just 
raising taxes doesn’t solve the problem. 
We’re spending $1 trillion more than 
what we did 5 years ago with a tax revenue 
the same. If we do not focus on 
spending, we will never solve the problem. 


f 

b 1040 

SAVING THE 911TH AIRLIFT WING 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 

Pennsylvania (Mr. MURPHY) for 5 minutes. 


Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. 
Speaking of saving money, here is an 
interesting story. 

Just 2 weeks after Texans in Randall 
County voted for Republican Barry 
Goldwater over their native son, Lyndon 
Johnson, in the Presidential race 
in the 1960s, the Pentagon announced 
Randall County’s Air Force base was 
closing. Folks were ‘‘flabbergasted’’ 
said an Amarillo newspaper columnist. 
The Air Force had just made millions 
in investments at the base, but now 
airmen and equipment were moving to 
a nearby county that supported Johnson. 


It was this kind of abuse of executive 
power that led Congress to write a new 
law ensuring we had proper oversight 
over base closures. In my Pennsylvania’s 
18th Congressional District, we’re 
finding out why that law must be 
strengthened. Last week, I learned the 
Air Force is again attempting to shut 
down the 911th Airlift Wing, an Air 
Force Reserve base, for a reason that 
has nothing do with cost or military 
strategy. In fact, the 911th is one of the 
most lean and cost-effective bases in 
the country. 

How and why they can do this without 
congressional approval is interesting. 
The Air Force claims inaccurately 
there are fewer than 300 civilian 
employees authorized to be employed 
at the 911th, allowing the Pentagon 
to close the base without congressional 
review. The Pentagon, however, 
has invested over $50 million in 
improvements in the base, including 
new buildings in the last 5 years. The 
911th, however, has lower overhead 
costs because emergency responses like 
fire and safety, air traffic control, security, 
runway maintenance, and land 
are provided by Pittsburgh International 
Airport for free. Hence, if the 
911th were forced to in-source those activities, 
the number of authorized personnel 
would be hundreds more, and 
would far exceed the 300-person threshold. 
Thus, the Pentagon would be prevented 
from unilaterally closing it. 
Further, the Air Force Reserve would 
have to invest millions more in equipment 
and training if it was not provided 
for free, but the Air Force did not 
look at any of these numbers, and they 
did not review the cost of the space. 

The Pentagon is trying to close the 
base because they can, not because 
they should. In their haste to come up 
with a quick cut, it will cost the taxpayers 
over $100 million in coming 
years, and that is why Congress needs 
to have oversight. 

The House has passed a defense bill 
to prevent a suboptimal decision like 
this one in the future. The House bill 
includes language requiring the Pentagon 
to notify Congress about any 
base closure or transfer of troops impacting 
more than 1,000 uniform personnel. 
Unlike the way the Air Force is 
operating now, the Defense Department 
would have to include a justification 
for the reduction, an evaluation of 


H6594 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

the costs and benefits, and an evaluation 
of the local, economic, environmental, 
strategic, and operational consequences. 
By requiring significant reductions 
in uniform personnel to be included 
in the budget request, Congress 
will have two opportunities to review, 
block, or approve a base closure in the 
annual defense authorization bill and 
the defense appropriations bill. 

The Senate is nearing completion of 
its version of the defense bill today, 
and it’s my hope that both Chambers 
will work to restore Congress’ proper 
oversight authority. The issue facing 
Congress is not a new one. Since the 
1960s, the executive branch has tried 
repeatedly to close bases for reasons 
other than the best interests of taxpayers 
or the military. The necessity 
of a strong base closure law giving Congress 
oversight of these decisions was 
perhaps best expressed in 1985 by Senator 
CARL LEVIN. He said: 

These protections against untrammeled executive 
power to close bases came because 
Members of this Senate and this Congress 
felt that the power to close bases had been 
abused and had been used as a club over 
Members of Congress. 

Today, it is the 911th, but tomorrow 
it could be a base in any Member’s district. 
I urge my colleagues to support 
efforts to strengthen the base closure 
law. 

f 

RECESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair 
declares the House in recess until noon 
today. 

Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 43 
minutes a.m.), the House stood in recess. 


f 

b 1200 

AFTER RECESS 

The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker at 
noon. 

f 

PRAYER 

Reverend Dr. Glen Bohannon, College 
Acres Baptist Church, Wilmington, 
North Carolina, offered the following 
prayer: 

Our Father in Heaven, who desires 
that all people breathe the fresh air of 
freedom, enable us to walk worthy of 
all rights sacrificially handed down to 
us by patriots past and present. 

So lead us that we will not take for 
granted the blessings of our Constitution, 
our laws, and all institutions that 
help make these United States an instrument 
of peace and purpose. 

Strengthen our resolve not to confuse 
liberty with license, restraint with 
weakness, and half error with full 
truth. 

Empower and motivate us to cultivate 
a spirit of goodness and a high 
sense of honor. Deepen our desire to 
practice virtues of conduct to help 

make our Nation strong and deserving 
to endure. 

Our eternal God, open our eyes today 
to see that our Nation’s greatest threat 
is not all external, but the inner 
thought that we can afford to live 
without dependence upon You. This I 
pray in the name of our Lord Jesus 
Christ. 

Amen. 

f 

THE JOURNAL 

The SPEAKER. The Chair has examined 
the Journal of the last day’s proceedings 
and announces to the House 
his approval thereof. 

Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Journal 
stands approved. 

Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, 
pursuant to clause 1, rule I, I demand 
a vote on agreeing to the Speaker’s 
approval of the Journal. 

The SPEAKER. The question is on 
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker announced that the ayes appeared 
to have it. 

Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, 
on that I demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER. Pursuant to clause 8, 
rule XX, further proceedings on this 
question will be postponed. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman 
from Minnesota (Mr. WALZ) come forward 
and lead the House in the Pledge 
of Allegiance. 

Mr. WALZ of Minnesota led the 
Pledge of Allegiance as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

POSTPONING CALL OF PRIVATE 
CALENDAR 

The SPEAKER. This is the day for 
the call of the Private Calendar. 

Without objection, the Private Calendar 
will be called after 1-minute 
speeches today. 

There was no objection. 

f 

WELCOMING REVEREND DR. GLEN 
DALE BOHANNON 

The SPEAKER. Without objection, 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. CULBERSON) 
is recognized for 1 minute. 

There was no objection. 

Mr. CULBERSON. Mr. Speaker, it is 
a privilege to have with us today as our 
guest chaplain, Dr. Glen Dale 
Bohannon, who now pastors a church in 
North Carolina, but who understands 
clearly the importance of this great institution 
that it’s our privilege to represent. 
I think Dr. Bohannon’s prayer 
was appropriate to strengthen these 
great institutions that were created for 
the sole purpose of protecting our liberty. 


Dr. Bohannon was married to Jo Ann 
Summers on October 26, 1957, was saved 
on February 2, 1959, and became an ordained 
pastor on November 20, 1960. Dr. 
Bo is a graduate of Southeast Missouri 
University and received his master’s of 
divinity from Midwestern Baptist 
Theological Seminary in 1972 and his 
doctorate of ministry in 1985. 

Glen and his wife, Jo Ann, have three 
children: Lisa, John, and Glen, Jr. 
John and his wife, Jody, have three 
children, Glen and Jo’s grandchildren: 
Summer, Levi, and Joelle. 

Dr. Bohannon has served churches in 
Missouri, Virginia, and North Carolina. 
He retired from full-time pastorate in 
1996 after serving at Central Baptist 
Church of Richmond, Virginia, for 101/2 
years. He received his intentional interim 
training from 1996–1997, and has 
since served as an intentional interim 
pastor and as an interim pastor in several 
churches in Virginia and North 
Carolina. 

Dr. Bohannon currently serves as the 
interim senior pastor at College Acres 
Baptist Church in Wilmington, North 
Carolina. He recently completed an intentional 
interim at Memorial Baptist 
Church in Arlington, Virginia, where 
my family attends when we’re in the 

D.C. area. We’re honored to have our 
good friend, Dr. Glen Bohannon, here 
as the pastor of the House for the day. 
f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
YODER). The Chair will entertain up to 
15 further requests for 1-minute speeches 
on each side of the aisle. 

f 

DR. HARRY ROSENBERG 
(Mr. HECK asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. HECK. Mr. Speaker, I come to 
the floor today to recognize Dr. Harry 
Rosenberg, founding president of Rose-
man University of Health Sciences. 
In 1999, Dr. Rosenberg rented a small 
office space in Henderson, Nevada, believing 
he could establish a pharmacy 
school that would produce highly 
skilled graduates ready to be recruited 
for work across the country. 
His innovative approach to education 
led him to develop a block format curriculum 
that emphasizes a student-centered 
active learning environment, allowing 
students to participate in experiential 
education from the very beginning 
of their studies and complete 
their doctoral degree in just 3 years instead 
of the traditional 4 years, making 
Roseman one of the most affordable 
pharmacy schools in the Nation. 
During his tenure, Dr. Rosenberg 
helped transform Roseman from a local 
school of 38 students to a regional institution 
with over 1,000 and offering 
an array of quality programs in nursing, 
dentistry, and business administration. 



December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6595 

As he prepares for retirement, I commend 
Dr. Rosenberg for his vision, innovation, 
and commitment to offering 
students an affordable, state-of-the-art 
education that has and will benefit the 
State of Nevada and the Nation. 

f 

THE POLITICS OF THE POSSIBLE 
(Mr. WALZ of Minnesota asked and 
was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and 
extend his remarks.) 
Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, 
today, let’s show the American people 
the politics of the possible. Let’s 
focus on what we agree on, not what we 
disagree on. Let’s find common ground. 
We can accomplish this by extending 
the middle class tax cuts immediately. 
Let’s have the people’s House break 
this ridiculous stalemate. Let families 
across the Nation go into the holiday 
season with certainty. 
Everyone here agrees taxes should 
not go up on middle class families. 
Democrats and Republicans can come 
together to make that happen. By extending 
the tax cuts, every American 
will get a tax break on the first $250,000 
of income. Let me repeat that 100 percent 
of Americans will receive a tax 
break on $250,000 of income. 
It also extends the child tax credit, 
makes it easier for small businesses to 
invest, makes it affordable to go to college, 
and fixes the alternative minimum 
tax. 
If we fail to act in the next 10 days, 
middle class families could see their income 
taxes go up by $2,000. No one 
wants it, and the economy doesn’t need 
it. The Senate has already passed a 
bill; the President said he would sign it 
today. It can be done now. 
Please stand up, sign the discharge 
petition, and make a difference for the 
American public. 

f 

KEVIN KLINE 
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I’d like to 
introduce the American people to 
Kevin Kline. 
Kevin is a friend and a popular DJ 
back home on the 93Q Morning Zoo. 
But Kevin is more than a voice on the 
radio. He is the man of the year according 
to the Fort Bend Focus Magazine. 
He earned that honor because of the 
Snowdrop Foundation, an organization 
he and his wife, Trish, created to help 
children fighting life-threatening cancer. 
Kevin’s inspiration was a remarkable 
young lady, Chelsey Campbell. Chelsey 
lost her battle with cancer on December 
9, 2006. She was 16 years old. Kevin 
was a pallbearer at her funeral. Kevin 
is always looking for an outlet to tell 
Chelsey’s story and keep her memory 
alive. 
If Kevin were here, I’d thank him for 
sharing Chelsey’s story with me so I 

could enshrine her life forever in the 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD of the United 
States of America. Because of Kevin, 
we all look forward to meeting Chelsey 
in heaven. 

f 

b 1210 

MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUTS 

(Mr. LEVIN asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. LEVIN. This discharge petition 
frames the issue immediately before 
us: will Republicans take America over 
the cliff, and the middle class tax cuts 
with them, in order to protect tax 
breaks for the very wealthy. And will 
they take the economy with them over 
the cliff? 

The fiscal cliff confronting us threatens 
an economic mess, half of which 
could be resolved in one fell swoop—by 
passing the middle class tax cuts. The 
Senate has already acted. The President 
is waiting to sign it. Republicans 
should join with Democrats and give 98 
percent of Americans and 97 percent of 
small businesses the certainty that 
they won’t face a tax increase on January 
1. 

Colleagues, Republicans as well as 
Democrats, sign now—the signal that 
America needs. 

f 

THE PRESIDENT IS NOT TAKING 
THE FISCAL CLIFF SERIOUSLY 

(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina 
asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, yesterday, Speaker BOEHNER 
sent a letter to the President in response 
to his unreasonable proposal 
suggesting how Congress can avert the 
fiscal cliff. Shortly after the election, 
the House Republican leadership presented 
the President with a balanced 
framework by coupling spending cuts 
and reforms. 

The Speaker’s letter to the President 
also states, ‘‘Regrettably, the proposal 
outlined on behalf of your administration 
contains very little in the way of 
common ground. The proposal calls for 
$1.6 trillion in new tax revenue—twice 
the amount you supported during the 
campaign.’’ 

House Republicans understand the 
necessity of finding a reasonable solution. 
We have made it very clear that 
we are willing to work with the Senate 
leadership to find middle ground legislation. 
It is my hope the President will 
begin taking these negotiations seriously 
and will work with the House Republicans 
to find a balanced approach 
to this challenge. 

In conclusion, God bless our troops, 
and we will never forget September the 
11th in the global war on terrorism. 

THE WHITE HOUSE MUST 

PRODUCE ITS LEGAL JUSTIFICA


TION FOR DRONE STRIKES 

(Mr. KUCINICH asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. KUCINICH. Before Congress adjourns, 
this House will vote on my resolution 
of inquiry about the U.S.’ use 
of drones. 

The vote will not be about the thousands 
of deaths of innocent civilians 
caused by drones, though that’s important. 
It won’t be about whether the 
drones are creating more terrorism. It 
won’t be a vote to stop the killing of 
American citizens without due process 
guaranteed by the Constitution. It 
won’t be about whether our ongoing 
use of drones constitutes violations of 
the Constitution and violations of 
international law. 

The vote will, however, be about 
something fundamental. 

We will determine whether or not 
Congress has the power to require the 
administration to release their still secret 
legal justification to use drones. 
In matters of the Constitution, in matters 
of war, ‘‘trust us’’ is neither sufficient 
legally, constitutionally, nor is it 
morally acceptable. 

I urge Members of the House to reclaim 
Congress’ constitutional imperative 
by supporting H. Res. 819, the resolution 
of inquiry demanding the White 
House produce its legal justification 
for drone strikes. 

f 

SERVING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE 

(Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.) 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. There 
should be one powerful driving force for 
all of us—and that is to serve the 
American people. 

The least we can do before December 
31, 2012, is to provide the middle class 
of America—the working men and 
women of America, those who every 
day get up at 6 a.m., at 4 a.m., and 
work night shifts—a tax break. I am 
proud to commit to giving Americans 
making incomes of $250,000 and below a 
tax break, and I stand here today 
proudly in having signed the petition. 

Let me say what else we can do very 
quickly. 

As a cochair of the Congressional 
Children’s Caucus, we have passed a bipartisan 
bill on the intervention in and 
prevention of bullying. Everywhere you 
go, you’re hearing about the dastardly 
conditions of our children who are 
going to school across America. 

To our Members of the United States 
Congress, let’s pass that legislation before 
we leave here, and let’s go into 
2013 with America recognizing that the 
Congress understands that the safety 
and security of our children in the 
schools of America are vital. That’s the 
least we can do—to protect the children 
of America. Pass the Bullying 


H6596 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

Prevention and Intervention Act of 
2012 now. 

f 

MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUTS 
(Ms. HAHN asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Ms. HAHN. As we race toward this 
fiscal cliff, we are faced with a number 
of looming problems, not the least of 
which is the threat of a crushing middle 
class tax hike. If we fail to act, 
middle class Americans could see their 
next tax bills rise by more than $3,000, 
and while there will be much to disagree 
on in the coming negotiations, 
no one wants this to happen. A tax 
hike of this size on the middle class 
would be a terrible burden on families 
who are just beginning to recover from 
this Great Recession. 
With congressional approval at an 
all-time low, we cannot pass up this opportunity 
to prove to the American 
people that we can work together. 
President Obama’s legislation to extend 
the middle class tax cuts has already 
been passed by the Senate, and it 
now depends on us. We should embrace 
this opportunity to vote on something 
we can agree on and bring this legislation 
to the floor. 
I’ve already signed this petition. I 
urge all of my colleagues to come down 
to the House floor right now and sign 
this discharge petition. Bring this to 
the floor. Let’s give the American people 
a real holiday present. 

f 

MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUTS 
(Mr. CICILLINE asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, last 
month, the American people went to 
the polls and delivered Congress a resounding 
message—that Republicans 
and Democrats should be working together 
to solve our Nation’s problems. 
Although our constituents have made 
it clear that the time for partisan 
games is over and despite overwhelming 
support for the idea, the 
House Republican leaders are refusing 
to hold a vote on extending tax cuts for 
middle class families. Instead, they 
plan to keep holding them hostage to 
tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. 
So, today, we have filed a discharge 
petition to force a vote on the Middle 
Class Tax Cut Act so that 98 percent of 
Americans and 97 percent of small businesses 
don’t have to worry about their 
taxes going up at the end of this year. 
It will ensure that 100 percent of Americans 
will see a tax cut for the first 
$250,000 of family income. 
The Senate has already passed an 
equivalent bill, but today the House is 
still standing in the way of tax relief 
for middle class families. I urge my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
do the right thing for working families: 
force the House Republican leadership 
to hold a vote on the middle class tax 

cut bill by signing this discharge petition 
and by forcing the bill to the floor 
so that we can do right by the American 
people. 

f 

TIME TO VOTE ON MIDDLE CLASS 
TAX CUTS 

(Mr. YARMUTH asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. YARMUTH. Mr. Speaker, when it 
comes to the fiscal cliff, Republicans 
and Democrats have one major thing in 
common—we both believe tax rates 
shouldn’t go up on 98 percent of Americans 
and 97 percent of small businesses. 
The difference is that Democrats won’t 
use middle class families as a bargaining 
chip. 

Today, House Republicans have a 
chance to show that they are more serious 
about making good policy than 
making political hostages of the middle 
class. We have filed a discharge petition 
to bring to the floor legislation 
that preserves tax cuts for 98 percent of 
Americans and 97 percent of small businesses. 
It has already passed the Senate. 
The President says he will sign it 
immediately. 

With our deadline less than a month 
away, the clock is ticking, and if House 
Republican leadership is wondering 
when in our pressing schedule we 
might be able to fully consider this legislation, 
they might rethink their astonishing 
decision to cancel House 
business on Thursday—one of the few 
days Congress has left in the current 
session. 

Mr. Speaker, we know what we must 
do, and it might come as a surprise 
that we actually agree on a solution. 
All that’s left is to vote. I urge my colleagues 
to sign the discharge petition 
and to vote immediately to keep middle 
class tax rates from going up. 

f 

THE POWER TO PULL AMERICA 

BACK FROM THE FISCAL CLIFF 

(Mr. COURTNEY asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, in the 
well of the House, a few feet away from 
me, we have the power as Members to 
actually pull this country back from a 
fiscal cliff which endangers an economic 
recovery and threatens middle 
class families all across the country. 

The good news is there right now. 
Consumer confidence is up, car sales 
are up, even the housing market is 
making a recovery. If we do not, however, 
act to sign this discharge petition 
and to protect middle class families, 
we will go backwards as a Nation. 

It will also solve three-quarters of 
the sequestration challenge that the 
Budget Control Act still has sitting out 
there for January 2. If we sign this discharge 
petition and get this bill passed, 
three-quarters of that problem will be 
solved: we will protect Medicare, we 
will protect our military, we will pro


tect education, and it will reduce the 
size of the challenge to avoid sequestration. 


All Members—Republicans and 
Democrats—should come together, sign 
this discharge petition, and help the 
American people get this economy 
back on its feet. 

f 

b 1220 

MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUTS 

(Mr. CROWLEY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. CROWLEY. Mr. Speaker, the 
American people have spoken. In this 
last election, they said to all of us: 
start to work together; have an agenda 
that serves the people of our country. 

We’ve all heard the expression that 
time is fleeting. Never before has that 
expression been more important in my 
14 years here in the House of Representatives. 
We have very few working 
days and even fewer days this week because 
of the House schedule put before 
us by the leadership of the House to actually 
work on the people’s business 
and pass a middle class tax cut that 
will affect 98 percent of working Americans. 
Ninety-eight percent of working 
Americans will get a tax cut by passing 
the Senate bill that they passed already 
that is now at the desk here in 
the House of Representatives in the 
form of a discharge petition. 

We’re taking this action because we 
believe that time is running out. If we 
fail to pass this bill or something like 
it, the middle class in this country will 
see on average a $2,000 increase in their 
taxes. I don’t know about anyone here 
in this Chamber, but I know my constituency 
doesn’t want to pay a $2,000 
tax. 

f 

MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUTS 

(Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia. Mr. 
Speaker, for any negotiation to be successful, 
both parties involved must 
first identify things on which they can 
agree. Fortunately, we already have 
agreed: middle class tax cuts need to be 
protected. Sixty percent of Americans 
agree that extending the middle class 
tax cuts and letting those for the 
wealthiest expire is a good compromise 
and the right thing to do. 

Some of our Republican colleagues 
agree, saying we ought to give 98 percent 
of all Americans an early Christmas 
present by extending the middle 
class tax cuts. Sadly, other Republicans 
do not share that holiday spirit. 
In their zeal to protect the tax breaks 
for the wealthiest 2 percent, they are 
willing to present themselves as the 
grinch that stole Christmas. 

Let’s not let another opportunity 
pass. Let’s show that we were listening 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6597 

on election day to our constituents 
who want us to work together to protect 
the middle class and the economy 
and get something done for America. 
Sign the discharge petition. 

f 

MIDDLE INCOME TAX CUT 
(Ms. PELOSI asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, as we all 
know, in the course of the election the 
President made it very clear that he 
was supporting the extension of the 
middle income tax cut and everyone, 
100 percent of the American people, 
would benefit from it—100 percent of 
taxpayers, small businesses, wage earners, 
and the rest. 
Republicans are saying that rather 
than passing that, they want to hold it 
hostage to giving an additional tax cut 
to people making over $250,000 a year. 
That’s not negotiating; that’s hostage-
taking. 
So today on the floor of the House, 
the Democrats have proposed a discharge 
petition which, if it receives 218 
signatures, that’s only a couple dozen 
Republicans joining the Democrats, it 
would automatically come to the floor 
and I predict would receive overwhelming 
support of the House of Representatives. 
The American people want us to 
work together. We are in agreement on 
this subject. Why—why, my Republican 
colleagues—can we not vote on something 
where we have agreement, where 
we have fairness that will work to create 
jobs, to reduce the deficit and will 
again have fairness. 
This is the heart of the matter that 
is holding us here. As the public watch-
es—what is this about—this is about 
the $250,000 line that the President said 
in the campaign that he would honor 
and that this legislation today brings 
to bear. 
I urge my colleagues, out of 435 Members 
of the House, we only need a couple 
dozen Republicans to sign the discharge 
petition. Each one of them 
holds the key to a $2,000 tax cut for the 
middle class. 
Either sign the petition, urge the 
Speaker to bring the bill to the floor, 
or explain to your constituents why 
you do not want them to have this 
$2,000 tax break for 100 percent of the 
American people. Please sign the discharge 
petition. Let’s get this done 
this week. We could bring this bill up 
under unanimous consent. The message 
would be clear to the American people: 
we heard you in the campaign. Be fair, 
do something that works, work together. 
This gives us that opportunity. 

f 

HOMESAFE GEORGIA 
(Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia asked and 
was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and 
extend his remarks.) 
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise to discuss the HomeSafe Geor


gia Program. HomeSafe provides temporary 
assistance to homeowners who 
are unemployed or underemployed due 
to no fault of their own. I’m hosting 
my second HomeSafe Georgia Foreclosure 
Prevention Event of 2012, Saturday, 
December 8, at the Salem Bible 
Church Fellowship Hall in Lithonia, 
Georgia, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. My 
friend, Jasper Williams, is the pastor. 

My last HomeSafe event helped hundreds 
of homeowners temporarily lower 
their mortgage payments, and I expect 
to help hundreds more after this weekend’s 
Georgia HomeSafe event. The 
event is free, and I hope Georgians who 
need help will attend. For more information 
contact me at 
hankjohnson.house.gov. 

f 

EXTEND MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUTS 

(Mr. PALLONE asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, the 
message from the American people is 
loud and clear: extend the middle class 
tax cuts now. Republicans are holding 
hostage tax cuts for 98 percent of 
Americans and 97 percent of small businesses 
to give more tax breaks to the 
wealthiest Americans. Once again Republicans 
are playing politics with 
something that will help Americans 
get back as we work to repair the damage 
that 8 years of Republican leadership 
created. 

Democrats have a commonsense solution, 
and we can’t wait around any 
longer to let real proposals languish 
until the House GOP gets its act together. 
Spearheaded by Congressman 
TIM WALZ, Democrats filed the Walz 
discharge petition to automatically 
bring to the House floor the Senate-
passed middle class tax cuts which the 
President has said he will sign immediately. 
We have no time to waste, Mr. 
Speaker. Pass the extension of the middle 
class tax cuts now as we find a bold, 
balanced, and fair agreement to avoid 
the fiscal cliff. 

f 

PRIVATE CALENDAR 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is 
the day for the call of the Private Calendar. 


f 

BARTOSZ KUMOR 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will call the first bill on the calendar. 


The Clerk called the bill (H.R. 1857) 
for the relief of Bartosz Kumor. 
There being no objection, the Clerk 
read the bill as follows: 
H.R. 1857 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR 
BARTOSZ KUMOR. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, Bartosz 
Kumor shall be eligible for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or for adjustment of status 
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence upon filing an application 
for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status 
to lawful permanent resident. 

(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Bartosz 
Kumor enters the United States before the 
filing deadline specified in subsection (c), he 
shall be considered to have entered and remained 
lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, 
be eligible for adjustment of status 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act as of the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(c) DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION AND PAYMENT 
OF FEES.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall 
apply only if the application for issuance of 
an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment 
of status is filed with appropriate 
fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.—
Upon the granting of an immigrant 
visa or permanent residence to Bartosz 
Kumor, the Secretary of State shall instruct 
the proper officer to reduce by 1, during the 
current or next following fiscal year, the 
total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of 
the alien’s birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the 
country of the alien’s birth under section 
202(e) of such Act. 
(e) DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL IMMIGRATION 
TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN RELATIVES.—The 
natural parents, brothers, and sisters of 
Bartosz Kumor shall not, by virtue of such 
relationship, be accorded any right, privilege, 
or status under the Immigration and 
Nationality Act. 
The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, was read the 
third time, and passed, and a motion to 
reconsider was laid on the table. 

f 

DANIEL WACHIRA 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will call the second bill on the 
calendar. 

The Clerk called the bill (H.R. 824) 
for the relief of Daniel Wachira. 
There being no objection, the Clerk 
read the bill as follows: 
H.R. 824 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR 
DANIEL WACHIRA. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, Daniel 
Wachira shall be eligible for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or for adjustment of status 
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence upon filing an application 
for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status 
to lawful permanent resident. 
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Daniel 
Wachira enters the United States before the 
filing deadline specified in subsection (c), he 
shall be considered to have entered and remained 
lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, 
be eligible for adjustment of status 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act as of the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(c) DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION AND PAYMENT 
OF FEES.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall 

H6598 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

apply only if the application for issuance of 
an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment 
of status is filed with appropriate 
fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 

(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.—
Upon the granting of an immigrant 
visa or permanent residence to Daniel 
Wachira, the Secretary of State shall instruct 
the proper officer to reduce by 1, during 
the current or next following fiscal year, 
the total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of 
the alien’s birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the 
country of the alien’s birth under section 
202(e) of such Act. 
(e) DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL IMMIGRATION 
TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN RELATIVES.—The 
natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Daniel 
Wachira shall not, by virtue of such relationship, 
be accorded any right, privilege, or 
status under the Immigration and Nationality 
Act. 
The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, was read the 
third time, and passed, and a motion to 
reconsider was laid on the table. 

f 

b 1230 

MARIA CARMEN CASTRO RAMIREZ 
AND J. REFUGIO CARRENO ROJAS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will call the third bill on the calendar. 


The Clerk called the bill (H.R. 823) 
for the relief of Maria Carmen Castro 
Ramirez and J. Refugio Carreno Rojas. 

There being no objection, the Clerk 
read the bill as follows: 
H.R. 823 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR 

MARIA CARMEN CASTRO RAMIREZ 

AND J. REFUGIO CARRENO ROJAS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, Maria Carmen 
Castro Ramirez and J. Refugio Carreno 
Rojas shall each be eligible for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or for adjustment of status 
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence upon filing an application 
for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status 
to lawful permanent resident. 
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Maria Carmen 
Castro Ramirez or J. Refugio Carreno 
Rojas enters the United States before the filing 
deadline specified in subsection (d), he or 
she shall be considered to have entered and 
remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, 
be eligible for adjustment of status 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act as of the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(c) WAIVER OF GROUNDS FOR REMOVAL OR 
DENIAL OF ADMISSION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sections 
212(a) and 237(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act, Maria Carmen Castro Ramirez 
and J. Refugio Carreno Rojas may not be removed 
from the United States, denied admission 
to the United States, or considered ineligible 
for lawful permanent residence in 
the United States by reason of any ground 
for removal or denial of admission that is reflected 
in the records of the Department of 
Homeland Security or the Visa Office of the 
Department of State on the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 

(2) RESCISSION OF OUTSTANDING ORDER OF 
REMOVAL.—The Secretary of Homeland Security 
shall rescind any outstanding order of 
removal or deportation, or any finding of inadmissibility 
or deportability, that has been 
entered against Maria Carmen Castro Ramirez 
or J. Refugio Carreno Rojas by reason of 
any ground described in paragraph (1). 
(d) DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION AND PAYMENT 
OF FEES.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall 
apply only if the application for issuance of 
an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment 
of status is filed with appropriate 
fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(e) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.—
Upon the granting of an immigrant 
visa or permanent residence to Maria Carmen 
Castro Ramirez and J. Refugio Carreno 
Rojas, the Secretary of State shall instruct 
the proper officer to reduce by 2, during the 
current or next following fiscal year, the 
total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of 
the aliens’ birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the 
country of the aliens’ birth under section 
202(e) of such Act. 
(f) DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL IMMIGRATION 
TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN RELATIVES.—The 
natural parents, brothers, and sisters of 
Maria Carmen Castro Ramirez and J. 
Refugio Carreno Rojas shall not, by virtue of 
such relationship, be accorded any right, 
privilege, or status under the Immigration 
and Nationality Act. 
The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, was read the 
third time, and passed, and a motion to 
reconsider was laid on the table. 

f 

ALLAN BOLOR KELLEY 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will call the fourth bill on the 
calendar. 
The Clerk called the bill (H.R. 794) 
for the relief of Allan Bolor Kelley. 
There being no objection, the Clerk 
read the bill as follows: 
H.R. 794 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR 
ALLAN BOLOR KELLEY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, Allan Bolor 
Kelley shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or for adjustment of status to 
that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence upon filing an application for 
issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to 
lawful permanent resident. 
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Allan Bolor 
Kelley enters the United States before the 
filing deadline specified in subsection (c), he 
shall be considered to have entered and remained 
lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, 
be eligible for adjustment of status 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act as of the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(c) DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION AND PAYMENT 
OF FEES.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall 
apply only if the application for issuance of 
an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment 
of status is filed with appropriate 
fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.—
Upon the granting of an immigrant 
visa or permanent residence to Allan Bolor 
Kelley, the Secretary of State shall instruct 
the proper officer to reduce by 1, during the 
current or next following fiscal year, the 
total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of 
the alien’s birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the 
country of the alien’s birth under section 
202(e) of such Act. 
(e) DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL IMMIGRATION 
TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN RELATIVES.—The 
natural parents, brothers, and sisters of 
Allan Bolor Kelley shall not, by virtue of 
such relationship, be accorded any right, 
privilege, or status under the Immigration 
and Nationality Act. 
The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, was read the 
third time, and passed, and a motion to 
reconsider was laid on the table. 

f 

CORINA DE CHALUP TURCINOVIC 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will call the fifth bill on the calendar. 
The Clerk called the bill (H.R. 357) 
for the relief of Corina de Chalup 
Turcinovic. 
There being no objection, the Clerk 
read the bill as follows: 
H.R. 357 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR 
CORINA DE CHALUP TURCINOVIC. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, Corina de 
Chalup Turcinovic shall be eligible for 
issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment 
of status to that of an alien lawfully 
admitted for permanent residence upon filing 
an application for issuance of an immigrant 
visa under section 204 of such Act or 
for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
resident. 
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Corina de 
Chalup Turcinovic enters the United States 
before the filing deadline specified in subsection 
(c), she shall be considered to have 
entered and remained lawfully and shall, if 
otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment 
of status under section 245 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act. 
(c) DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION AND PAYMENT 
OF FEES.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall 
apply only if the application for issuance of 
an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment 
of status is filed with appropriate 
fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.—
Upon the granting of an immigrant 
visa or permanent residence to Corina de 
Chalup Turcinovic, the Secretary of State 
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 
1, during the current or next following fiscal 
year, the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the 
country of the alien’s birth under section 
203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant 
visas that are made available to natives 
of the country of the alien’s birth 
under section 202(e) of such Act. 
(e) DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL IMMIGRATION 
TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN RELATIVES.—The 

December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6599 

natural parents, brothers, and sisters of 
Corina de Chalup Turcinovic shall not, by 
virtue of such relationship, be accorded any 
right, privilege, or status under the Immigration 
and Nationality Act. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, was read the 
third time, and passed, and a motion to 
reconsider was laid on the table. 

f 

ESTHER KARINGE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will call the sixth bill on the calendar. 
The Clerk called the bill (H.R. 316) 
for the relief of Esther Karinge. 
There being no objection, the Clerk 
read the bill as follows: 
H.R. 316 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR 
ESTHER KARINGE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act, Esther 
Karinge shall be eligible for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or for adjustment of status 
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence upon filing an application 
for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status 
to lawful permanent resident. 
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.—If Esther 
Karinge enters the United States before the 
filing deadline specified in subsection (c), she 
shall be considered to have entered and remained 
lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, 
be eligible for adjustment of status 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act as of the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(c) DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION AND PAYMENT 
OF FEES.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall 
apply only if the application for issuance of 
an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment 
of status is filed with appropriate 
fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 
(d) REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.—
Upon the granting of an immigrant 
visa or permanent residence to Esther 
Karinge, the Secretary of State shall instruct 
the proper officer to reduce by 1, during 
the current or next following fiscal year, 
the total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of 
the alien’s birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the 
country of the alien’s birth under section 
202(e) of such Act. 
(e) DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL IMMIGRATION 
TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN RELATIVES.—The 
natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Esther 
Karinge shall not, by virtue of such relationship, 
be accorded any right, privilege, 
or status under the Immigration and Nationality 
Act. 
The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, was read the 
third time, and passed, and a motion to 
reconsider was laid on the table. 

f 

SOPURUCHI CHUKWUEKE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will call the seventh bill on the 
calendar. 
The Clerk called the bill (S. 285) for 
the relief of Sopuruchi Chukwueke. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I 
ask unanimous consent that S. 285, 
Calendar No. 7, be passed over without 
prejudice. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. This 
concludes the call of the Private Calendar. 


f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair 
will postpone further proceedings 
today on the motion to suspend the 
rules on which a recorded vote or the 
yeas and nays are ordered, or on which 
the vote incurs objection under clause 
6 of rule XX. 

Any record vote on the postponed 
question will be taken later. 

f 

AMERICAN ENERGY MANUFAC


TURING TECHNICAL CORREC


TIONS ACT 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I 
move to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 6582) to allow for innovations 
and alternative technologies that meet 
or exceed desired energy efficiency 
goals, and to make technical corrections 
to existing Federal energy efficiency 
laws to allow American manufacturers 
to remain competitive, as 
amended. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The text of the bill is as follows: 

H.R. 6582 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘American 
Energy Manufacturing Technical Corrections 
Act’’. 

SEC. 2. INNOVATIVE COMPONENT TECHNOLOGIES. 


Section 342(f) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6313(f)) is amended— 


(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘paragraphs 
(2) through (5)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraphs 
(2) through (6)’’; and 
(2) by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph: 
‘‘(6) INNOVATIVE COMPONENT TECHNOLOGIES.—
Subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) 
shall not apply to a walk-in cooler or walk-
in freezer component if the component manufacturer 
has demonstrated to the satisfaction 
of the Secretary that the component reduces 
energy consumption at least as much 
as if such subparagraph were to apply. In 
support of any demonstration under this 
paragraph, a manufacturer shall provide to 
the Secretary all data and technical information 
necessary to fully evaluate its application.’’. 


SEC. 3. UNIFORM EFFICIENCY DESCRIPTOR FOR 
COVERED WATER HEATERS. 

Section 325(e) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(e)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following: 

‘‘(5) UNIFORM EFFICIENCY DESCRIPTOR FOR 
COVERED WATER HEATERS.— 

‘‘(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph: 

‘‘(i) COVERED WATER HEATER.—The term 
‘covered water heater’ means— 

‘‘(I) a water heater; and 

‘‘(II) a storage water heater, instantaneous 
water heater, and unfired hot water storage 
tank (as defined in section 340). 

‘‘(ii) FINAL RULE.—The term ‘final rule’ 
means the final rule published under this 
paragraph. 

‘‘(B) PUBLICATION OF FINAL RULE.—Not 
later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this paragraph, the Secretary shall publish 
a final rule that establishes a uniform 
efficiency descriptor and accompanying test 
methods for covered water heaters. 

‘‘(C) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the final 
rule shall be to replace with a uniform efficiency 
descriptor— 

‘‘(i) the energy factor descriptor for water 
heaters established under this subsection; 
and 

‘‘(ii) the thermal efficiency and standby 
loss descriptors for storage water heaters, instantaneous 
water heaters, and unfired 
water storage tanks established under section 
342(a)(5). 

‘‘(D) EFFECT OF FINAL RULE.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this title, effective beginning 
on the effective date of the final rule, 
the efficiency standard for covered water 
heaters shall be denominated according to 
the efficiency descriptor established by the 
final rule. 

‘‘(ii) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The final rule shall 
take effect 1 year after the date of publication 
of the final rule under subparagraph (B). 

‘‘(E) CONVERSION FACTOR.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall develop 
a mathematical conversion factor for 
converting the measurement of efficiency for 
covered water heaters from the test procedures 
in effect on the date of enactment of 
this paragraph to the new energy descriptor 
established under the final rule. 

‘‘(ii) APPLICATION.—The conversion factor 
shall apply to models of covered water heaters 
affected by the final rule and tested prior 
to the effective date of the final rule. 

‘‘(iii) EFFECT ON EFFICIENCY REQUIREMENTS.—
The conversion factor shall not affect 
the minimum efficiency requirements 
for covered water heaters otherwise established 
under this title. 

‘‘(iv) USE.—During the period described in 
clause (v), a manufacturer may apply the 
conversion factor established by the Secretary 
to rerate existing models of covered 
water heaters that are in existence prior to 
the effective date of the rule described in 
clause (v)(II) to comply with the new efficiency 
descriptor. 

‘‘(v) PERIOD.—Clause (iv) shall apply during 
the period— 

‘‘(I) beginning on the date of publication of 
the conversion factor in the Federal Register; 
and 

‘‘(II) ending on the later of 1 year after the 
date of publication of the conversion factor, 
or December 31, 2015. 

‘‘(F) EXCLUSIONS.—The final rule may exclude 
a specific category of covered water 
heaters from the uniform efficiency 
descriptor established under this paragraph 
if the Secretary determines that the category 
of water heaters— 

‘‘(i) does not have a residential use and can 
be clearly described in the final rule; and 

‘‘(ii) are effectively rated using the thermal 
efficiency and standby loss descriptors 
applied (as of the date of enactment of this 
paragraph) to the category under section 
342(a)(5). 

‘‘(G) OPTIONS.—The descriptor set by the 
final rule may be— 

‘‘(i) a revised version of the energy factor 
descriptor in use as of the date of enactment 
of this paragraph; 


H6600 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

‘‘(ii) the thermal efficiency and standby 
loss descriptors in use as of that date; 

‘‘(iii) a revised version of the thermal efficiency 
and standby loss descriptors; 

‘‘(iv) a hybrid of descriptors; or 

‘‘(v) a new approach. 

‘‘(H) APPLICATION.—The efficiency 
descriptor and accompanying test method established 
under the final rule shall apply, to 
the maximum extent practicable, to all 
water heating technologies in use as of the 
date of enactment of this paragraph and to 
future water heating technologies. 

‘‘(I) PARTICIPATION.—The Secretary shall 
invite interested stakeholders to participate 
in the rulemaking process used to establish 
the final rule. 

‘‘(J) TESTING OF ALTERNATIVE 
DESCRIPTORS.—In establishing the final rule, 
the Secretary shall contract with the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology, 
as necessary, to conduct testing and 
simulation of alternative descriptors identified 
for consideration. 

‘‘(K) EXISTING COVERED WATER HEATERS.—A 
covered water heater shall be considered to 
comply with the final rule on and after the 
effective date of the final rule and with any 
revised labeling requirements established by 
the Federal Trade Commission to carry out 
the final rule if the covered water heater— 

‘‘(i) was manufactured prior to the effective 
date of the final rule; and 

‘‘(ii) complied with the efficiency standards 
and labeling requirements in effect 
prior to the final rule.’’. 

SEC. 4. SERVICE OVER THE COUNTER, SELF-CON


TAINED, MEDIUM TEMPERATURE 

COMMERCIAL REFRIGERATORS. 

Section 342(c) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6313(c)) is 
amended— 

(1) in paragraph (1)— 
(A) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
subparagraph (E); and 
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the 
following: 
‘‘(C) The term ‘service over the counter, 
self-contained, medium temperature commercial 
refrigerator’ or ‘(SOC–SC–M)’ means 
a medium temperature commercial refrigerator— 


‘‘(i) with a self-contained condensing unit 
and equipped with sliding or hinged doors in 
the back intended for use by sales personnel, 
and with glass or other transparent material 
in the front for displaying merchandise; and 

‘‘(ii) that has a height not greater than 66 
inches and is intended to serve as a counter 
for transactions between sales personnel and 
customers. 

‘‘(D) The term ‘TDA’ means the total display 
area (ft2) of the refrigerated case, as defined 
in AHRI Standard 1200.’’; 

(2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) 
as paragraphs (5) and (6), respectively; and 
(3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following: 
‘‘(4)(A) Each SOC–SC–M manufactured on 
or after January 1, 2012, shall have a total 
daily energy consumption (in kilowatt hours 
per day) of not more than 0.6 × TDA + 1.0. 

‘‘(B) Not later than 3 years after the date 
of enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary 
shall— 

‘‘(i) determine whether the standard established 
under subparagraph (A) should be 
amended; and 

‘‘(ii) if the Secretary determines that such 
standard should be amended, issue a final 
rule establishing an amended standard. 

‘‘(C) If the Secretary issues a final rule 
pursuant to subparagraph (B) establishing an 
amended standard, the final rule shall provide 
that the amended standard shall apply 
to products manufactured on or after the 
date that is— 

‘‘(i) 3 years after the date on which the 
final amended standard is published; or 

‘‘(ii) if the Secretary determines, by rule, 
that 3 years is inadequate, not later than 5 
years after the date on which the final rule 
is published.’’. 

SEC. 5. SMALL DUCT HIGH VELOCITY SYSTEMS 
AND ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGES. 

(a) THROUGH-THE-WALL CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONERS, 
THROUGH-THE-WALL CENTRAL AIR 
CONDITIONING HEAT PUMPS, AND SMALL DUCT, 
HIGH VELOCITY SYSTEMS.—Section 325(d) of 
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 
U.S.C. 6295(d)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following: 
‘‘(4) STANDARDS FOR THROUGH-THE-WALL 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONERS, THROUGH-THE-
WALL CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING HEAT PUMPS, 
AND SMALL DUCT, HIGH VELOCITY SYSTEMS.— 

‘‘(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph: 

‘‘(i) SMALL DUCT, HIGH VELOCITY SYSTEM.— 
The term ‘small duct, high velocity system’ 
means a heating and cooling product that 
contains a blower and indoor coil combination 
that— 

‘‘(I) is designed for, and produces, at least 

1.2 inches of external static pressure when 
operated at the certified air volume rate of 
220–350 CFM per rated ton of cooling; and 
‘‘(II) when applied in the field, uses high 
velocity room outlets generally greater than 
1,000 fpm that have less than 6.0 square 
inches of free area. 

‘‘(ii) THROUGH-THE-WALL CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONER; 
THROUGH-THE-WALL CENTRAL AIR 
CONDITIONING HEAT PUMP.—The terms 
‘through-the-wall central air conditioner’ 
and ‘through-the-wall central air conditioning 
heat pump’ mean a central air conditioner 
or heat pump, respectively, that is designed 
to be installed totally or partially 
within a fixed-size opening in an exterior 
wall, and— 

‘‘(I) is not weatherized; 

‘‘(II) is clearly and permanently marked 
for installation only through an exterior 
wall; 

‘‘(III) has a rated cooling capacity no 
greater than 30,000 Btu/hr; 

‘‘(IV) exchanges all of its outdoor air 
across a single surface of the equipment cabinet; 
and 

‘‘(V) has a combined outdoor air exchange 
area of less than 800 square inches (split systems) 
or less than 1,210 square inches (single 
packaged systems) as measured on the surface 
area described in subclause (IV). 

‘‘(iii) REVISION.—The Secretary may revise 
the definitions contained in this subparagraph 
through publication of a final rule. 

‘‘(B) SMALL-DUCT HIGH-VELOCITY SYSTEMS.— 

‘‘(i) SEASONAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY RATIO.— 
The seasonal energy efficiency ratio for 
small-duct high-velocity systems shall be 
not less than— 

‘‘(I) 11.00 for products manufactured on or 
after January 23, 2006; and 

‘‘(II) 12.00 for products manufactured on or 
after January 1, 2015. 

‘‘(ii) HEATING SEASONAL PERFORMANCE FAC-
TOR.—The heating seasonal performance factor 
for small-duct high-velocity systems 
shall be not less than— 

‘‘(I) 6.8 for products manufactured on or 
after January 23, 2006; and 

‘‘(II) 7.2 for products manufactured on or 
after January 1, 2015. 

‘‘(C) SUBSEQUENT RULEMAKINGS.—The Secretary 
shall conduct subsequent rulemakings 
for through-the-wall central air conditioners, 
through-the-wall central air conditioning 
heat pumps, and small duct, high velocity 
systems as part of any rulemaking 
under this section used to review or revise 
standards for other central air conditioners 
and heat pumps.’’. 

(b) DUTY TO REVIEW COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT.—
Section 342(a)(6) of the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6313(a)(6)) is 
amended— 

(1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by inserting 
‘‘the standard levels or design requirements 
applicable under that standard to’’ immediately 
before ‘‘any small commercial’’; and 
(2) in subparagraph (C)— 
(A) in clause (i)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘Not later than 6 years after 
issuance of any final rule establishing or 
amending a standard, as required for a product 
under this part,’’ and inserting ‘‘Every 6 
years,’’; and 
(ii) by inserting after ‘‘the Secretary 
shall’’ the following: ‘‘conduct an evaluation 
of each class of covered equipment and 
shall’’; and 
(B) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(vi) For any covered equipment as to 
which more than 6 years has elapsed since 
the issuance of the most recent final rule establishing 
or amending a standard for the 
product as of the date of enactment of this 
clause, the first notice required under clause 

(i) shall be published by December 31, 2013.’’. 
(c) PETITION FOR AMENDED STANDARDS.— 
Section 325(n) of the Energy Policy and Conservation 
Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(n)) is amended— 
(1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
(5); and 
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following: 
‘‘(3) NOTICE OF DECISION.—Not later than 
180 days after the date of receiving a petition, 
the Secretary shall publish in the Federal 
Register a notice of, and explanation 
for, the decision of the Secretary to grant or 
deny the petition. 

‘‘(4) NEW OR AMENDED STANDARDS.—Not 
later than 3 years after the date of granting 
a petition for new or amended standards, the 
Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register— 


‘‘(A) a final rule that contains the new or 
amended standards; or 
‘‘(B) a determination that no new or 
amended standards are necessary.’’. 

SEC. 6. COORDINATION OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
OF ENERGY EFFICIENT 
TECHNOLOGIES FOR INDUSTRY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—As part of the research 
and development activities of the Industrial 
Technologies Program of the Department of 
Energy, the Secretary of Energy (referred to 
in this section as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall establish, 
as appropriate, collaborative research 
and development partnerships with 
other programs within the Office of Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy (including 
the Building Technologies Program), the Office 
of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, 
and the Office of Science that— 
(1) leverage the research and development 
expertise of those programs to promote early 
stage energy efficiency technology development; 
(2) support the use of innovative manufacturing 
processes and applied research for development, 
demonstration, and commercialization 
of new technologies and processes 
to improve efficiency (including improvements 
in efficient use of water), reduce emissions, 
reduce industrial waste, and improve 
industrial cost-competitiveness; and 
(3) apply the knowledge and expertise of 
the Industrial Technologies Program to help 
achieve the program goals of the other programs. 
(b) REPORTS.—Not later than 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this Act and biennially 
thereafter, the Secretary shall submit 
to Congress a report that describes actions 
taken to carry out subsection (a) and the results 
of those actions. 
SEC. 7. REDUCING BARRIERS TO THE DEPLOYMENT 
OF INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY. 


(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6601 

(1) INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY.—The 
term ‘‘industrial energy efficiency’’ means 
the energy efficiency derived from commercial 
technologies and measures to improve 
energy efficiency or to generate or transmit 
electric power and heat, including electric 
motor efficiency improvements, demand response, 
direct or indirect combined heat and 
power, and waste heat recovery. 
(2) INDUSTRIAL SECTOR.—The term ‘‘industrial 
sector’’ means any subsector of the 
manufacturing sector (as defined in North 
American Industry Classification System 
codes 31-33 (as in effect on the date of enactment 
of this Act)) establishments of which 
have, or could have, thermal host facilities 
with electricity requirements met in whole, 
or in part, by onsite electricity generation, 
including direct and indirect combined heat 
and power or waste recovery. 
(b) REPORT ON THE DEPLOYMENT OF INDUSTRIAL 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report 
describing— 
(A) the results of the study conducted 
under paragraph (2); and 
(B) recommendations and guidance developed 
under paragraph (3). 
(2) STUDY.—The Secretary, in coordination 
with the industrial sector and other stakeholders, 
shall conduct a study of the following: 
(A) The legal, regulatory, and economic 
barriers to the deployment of industrial energy 
efficiency in all electricity markets (including 
organized wholesale electricity markets, 
and regulated electricity markets), including, 
as applicable, the following: 
(i) Transmission and distribution interconnection 
requirements. 
(ii) Standby, back-up, and maintenance 
fees (including demand ratchets). 
(iii) Exit fees. 
(iv) Life of contract demand ratchets. 
(v) Net metering. 
(vi) Calculation of avoided cost rates. 
(vii) Power purchase agreements. 
(viii) Energy market structures. 
(ix) Capacity market structures. 
(x) Other barriers as may be identified by 
the Secretary, in coordination with the industrial 
sector and other stakeholders. 
(B) Examples of— 
(i) successful State and Federal policies 
that resulted in greater use of industrial energy 
efficiency; 
(ii) successful private initiatives that resulted 
in greater use of industrial energy efficiency; 
and 
(iii) cost-effective policies used by foreign 
countries to foster industrial energy efficiency. 
(C) The estimated economic benefits to the 
national economy of providing the industrial 
sector with Federal energy efficiency matching 
grants of $5,000,000,000 for 5- and 10-year 
periods, including benefits relating to— 
(i) estimated energy and emission reductions; 
(ii) direct and indirect jobs saved or created; 
(iii) direct and indirect capital investment; 
(iv) the gross domestic product; and 
(v) trade balance impacts. 
(D) The estimated energy savings available 
from increased use of recycled material in 
energy-intensive manufacturing processes. 
(3) RECOMMENDATIONS AND GUIDANCE.—The 
Secretary, in coordination with the industrial 
sector and other stakeholders, shall develop 
policy recommendations regarding the 
deployment of industrial energy efficiency, 
including proposed regulatory guidance to 
States and relevant Federal agencies to address 
barriers to deployment. 

SEC. 8. BEST PRACTICES FOR ADVANCED METERING. 


Section 543(e) of the National Energy Conservation 
Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8253(e)) is 
amended by striking paragraph (3) and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(3) PLAN.—Not later than 180 days after 
the date on which guidelines are established 
under paragraph (2), in a report submitted by 
the agency under section 548(a), each agency 
shall submit to the Secretary a plan describing 
the manner in which the agency will implement 
the requirements of paragraph (1), 
including— 

‘‘(A) how the agency will designate personnel 
primarily responsible for achieving 
the requirements; and 

‘‘(B) a demonstration by the agency, complete 
with documentation, of any finding 
that advanced meters or advanced metering 
devices (as those terms are used in paragraph 
(1)), are not practicable. 

‘‘(4) BEST PRACTICES REPORT.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this paragraph, 
the Secretary of Energy, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Defense and the 
Administrator of General Services, shall develop, 
and issue a report on, best practices 
for the use of advanced metering of energy 
use in Federal facilities, buildings, and 
equipment by Federal agencies. 

‘‘(B) COMPONENTS.—The report shall include, 
at a minimum— 

‘‘(i) summaries and analysis of the reports 
by agencies under paragraph (3); 

‘‘(ii) recommendations on standard requirements 
or guidelines for automated energy 
management systems, including— 

‘‘(I) potential common communications 
standards to allow data sharing and reporting; 


‘‘(II) means of facilitating continuous commissioning 
of buildings and evidence-based 
maintenance of buildings and building systems; 
and 

‘‘(III) standards for sufficient levels of security 
and protection against cyber threats 
to ensure systems cannot be controlled by 
unauthorized persons; and 

‘‘(iii) an analysis of— 

‘‘(I) the types of advanced metering and 
monitoring systems being piloted, tested, or 
installed in Federal buildings; and 

‘‘(II) existing techniques used within the 
private sector or other non-Federal government 
buildings.’’. 

SEC. 9. FEDERAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND 
DATA COLLECTION STANDARD. 

Section 543 of the National Energy Conservation 
Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8253) is 
amended— 

(1) by redesignating the second subsection 
(f) (as added by section 434(a) of Public Law 
110-140 (121 Stat. 1614)) as subsection (g); and 
(2) in subsection (f)(7), by striking subparagraph 
(A) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For each facility that 
meets the criteria established by the Secretary 
under paragraph (2)(B), the energy 
manager shall use the web-based tracking 
system under subparagraph (B)— 

‘‘(i) to certify compliance with the requirements 
for— 
‘‘(I) energy and water evaluations under 
paragraph (3); 
‘‘(II) implementation of identified energy 
and water measures under paragraph (4); and 
‘‘(III) follow-up on implemented measures 
under paragraph (5); and 
‘‘(ii) to publish energy and water consumption 
data on an individual facility basis.’’. 

SEC. 10. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS. 

(a) TITLE III OF ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND 
SECURITY ACT OF 2007—ENERGY SAVINGS 
THROUGH IMPROVED STANDARDS FOR APPLIANCES 
AND LIGHTING.— 

(1) Section 325(u) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(u)) (as 
amended by section 301(c) of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (121 
Stat. 1550)) is amended— 
(A) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph 
(4); and 
(B) in paragraph (4) (as so redesignated), by 
striking ‘‘supplies is’’ and inserting ‘‘supply 
is’’. 
(2) Section 302(b) of the Energy Independence 
and Security Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1551) 
is amended by striking ‘‘6313(a)’’ and inserting 
‘‘6314(a)’’. 
(3) Section 342(a)(6) of the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6313(a)(6)) 
(as amended by section 305(b)(2) of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 
(121 Stat. 1554)) is amended— 
(A) in subparagraph (B)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘If the Secretary’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary’’; 

(ii) by striking ‘‘clause (ii)(II)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subparagraph (A)(ii)(II)’’; 
(iii) by striking ‘‘clause (i)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subparagraph (A)(i)’’; and 
(iv) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(ii) FACTORS.—In determining whether a 
standard is economically justified for the 
purposes of subparagraph (A)(ii)(II), the Secretary 
shall, after receiving views and comments 
furnished with respect to the proposed 
standard, determine whether the benefits of 
the standard exceed the burden of the proposed 
standard by, to the maximum extent 
practicable, considering— 

‘‘(I) the economic impact of the standard 
on the manufacturers and on the consumers 
of the products subject to the standard; 

‘‘(II) the savings in operating costs 
throughout the estimated average life of the 
product in the type (or class) compared to 
any increase in the price of, or in the initial 
charges for, or maintenance expenses of, the 
products that are likely to result from the 
imposition of the standard; 

‘‘(III) the total projected quantity of energy 
savings likely to result directly from 
the imposition of the standard; 

‘‘(IV) any lessening of the utility or the 
performance of the products likely to result 
from the imposition of the standard; 

‘‘(V) the impact of any lessening of competition, 
as determined in writing by the Attorney 
General, that is likely to result from 
the imposition of the standard; 

‘‘(VI) the need for national energy conservation; 
and 

‘‘(VII) other factors the Secretary considers 
relevant. 

‘‘(iii) ADMINISTRATION.— 

‘‘(I) ENERGY USE AND EFFICIENCY.—The Secretary 
may not prescribe any amended 
standard under this paragraph that increases 
the maximum allowable energy use, or decreases 
the minimum required energy efficiency, 
of a covered product. 

‘‘(II) UNAVAILABILITY.— 

‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may not 
prescribe an amended standard under this 
subparagraph if the Secretary finds (and publishes 
the finding) that interested persons 
have established by a preponderance of the 
evidence that a standard is likely to result 
in the unavailability in the United States in 
any product type (or class) of performance 
characteristics (including reliability, features, 
sizes, capacities, and volumes) that 
are substantially the same as those generally 
available in the United States at the 
time of the finding of the Secretary. 

‘‘(bb) OTHER TYPES OR CLASSES.—The failure 
of some types (or classes) to meet the 
criterion established under this subclause 
shall not affect the determination of the 


H6602 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

Secretary on whether to prescribe a standard 
for the other types or classes.’’; and 

(B) in subparagraph (C)(iv), by striking 
‘‘An amendment prescribed under this subsection’’ 
and inserting ‘‘Notwithstanding 
subparagraph (D), an amendment prescribed 
under this subparagraph’’. 
(4) Section 342(a)(6)(B)(iii) of the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (as added by 
section 306(c) of the Energy Independence 
and Security Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1559)) is 
transferred and redesignated as clause (vi) of 
section 342(a)(6)(C) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (as amended by section 
305(b)(2) of the Energy Independence and Security 
Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1554)). 
(5) Section 345 of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6316) (as amended 
by section 312(e) of the Energy Independence 
and Security Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1567)) 
is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘subparagraphs (B) through 
(G)’’ each place it appears and inserting 
‘‘subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), (I), (J), and 
(K)’’; 
(B) by striking ‘‘part A’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘part B’’; 
(C) in subsection (a)— 
(i) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(ii) in paragraph (9), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(iii) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(10) section 327 shall apply with respect to 
the equipment described in section 340(1)(L) 
beginning on the date on which a final rule 
establishing an energy conservation standard 
is issued by the Secretary, except that 
any State or local standard prescribed or enacted 
for the equipment before the date on 
which the final rule is issued shall not be 
preempted until the energy conservation 
standard established by the Secretary for the 
equipment takes effect.’’; 

(D) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ‘‘section 
325(p)(5)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
325(p)(4)’’; and 
(E) in subsection (h)(3), by striking ‘‘section 
342(f)(3)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 
342(f)(4)’’. 
(6) Section 321(30)(D)(i)(III) of the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6291(30)(D)(i)(III)) (as amended by section 
321(a)(1)(A) of the Energy Independence and 
Security Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1574)) is 
amended by inserting before the semicolon 
the following: ‘‘or, in the case of a modified 
spectrum lamp, not less than 232 lumens and 
not more than 1,950 lumens’’. 
(7) Section 321(30)(T) of the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6291(30)(T)) 
(as amended by section 321(a)(1)(B) of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 
(121 Stat. 1574)) is amended— 
(A) in clause (i)— 
(i) by striking the comma after ‘‘household 
appliance’’ and inserting ‘‘and’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘and is sold at retail,’’; and 
(B) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘when sold 
at retail,’’ before ‘‘is designated’’. 
(8) Section 325(l)(4)(A) of the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(l)(4)(A)) 
(as amended by section 321(a)(3)(B) of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 
(121 Stat. 1581)) is amended by striking 
‘‘only’’. 
(9) Section 327(b)(1)(B) of the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6297(b)(1)(B)) (as amended by section 321(d)(3) 
of the Energy Independence and Security Act 
of 2007 (121 Stat. 1585)) is amended— 
(A) in clause (i), by inserting ‘‘and’’ after 
the semicolon at the end; 
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and 
inserting a period; and 
(C) by striking clause (iii). 
(10) Section 321(30)(C)(ii) of the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6291(30)(C)(ii)) (as amended by section 
322(a)(1)(B) of the Energy Independence and 
Security Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1587)) is 
amended by inserting a period after ‘‘40 
watts or higher’’. 

(11) Section 322(b) of the Energy Independence 
and Security Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1588) 
is amended by striking ‘‘6995(i)’’ and inserting 
‘‘6295(i)’’. 
(12) Section 325(b) of the Energy Independence 
and Security Act of 2007 (121 Stat. 1596) 
is amended by striking ‘‘6924(c)’’ and inserting 
‘‘6294(c)’’. 
(13) This subsection and the amendments 
made by this subsection take effect as if included 
in the Energy Independence and Security 
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–140; 121 Stat. 
1492). 
(b) ENERGY POLICY ACT OF 2005.— 
(1) Section 325(g)(8)(C)(ii) of the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 
6295(g)(8)(C)(ii)) (as added by section 
135(c)(2)(B) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005) 
is amended by striking ‘‘20°F’’ and inserting 
‘‘negative 20°F’’. 
(2) This subsection and the amendment 
made by this subsection take effect as if included 
in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public 
Law 109–58; 119 Stat. 594). 
(c) ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION 
ACT.— 
(1) Section 340(2)(B) of the Energy Policy 
and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6311(2)(B)) is 
amended— 
(A) in clause (xi), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the 
end; 
(B) in clause (xii), by striking the period at 
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(xiii) other motors.’’. 
(2) Section 343(a) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6314(a)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘Air-Conditioning and 
Refrigeration Institute’’ each place it appears 
in paragraphs (4)(A) and (7) and inserting 
‘‘Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration 
Institute’’. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the rule, the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. WHITFIELD) and the gentleman 
from California (Mr. WAXMAN) 
each will control 20 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Kentucky. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to 
revise and extend their remarks and insert 
extraneous materials in the 
RECORD. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Kentucky? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


I rise today in support of H.R. 6582, 
the American Energy Manufacturing 
Technical Corrections Act, and I want 
to thank Mr. WAXMAN and his staff for 
working with us on this legislation. 
Part of it has been passed in the Senate, 
and we’ve worked very closely 
with the Senate staff and Members as 
well. 

This is a small but critical piece of 
energy legislation that I encourage my 
colleagues to support: 

Section 2 deals with an outdated 
standard for walk-in coolers that is actually 
resulting in layoffs and loss of 
jobs in the State of Alabama; 

Section 3 deals with a fix to water 
heater requirements that will reduce 
regulatory burdens on manufacturers 
by transitioning to a single definition 
for all covered water heaters; 

Section 4 fixes a standard that cannot 
be met from the 2007 energy bill for 
‘‘service over the counter’’ refrigerators; 


Section 5 deals with small duct high 
velocity systems; 

Sections 6 and 7 seek to improve Federal 
coordination to help develop and 
deploy industrial energy efficiency 
technologies; 

Sections 8 and 9 aim to improve Federal 
energy efficiency, which will ultimately 
save taxpayers money; 

Section 10 makes additional routine 
technical corrections to the 2007 energy 
bill. 

This bill will reduce regulatory burdens 
and provide greater certainty for 
manufacturers, allowing them to stay 
in business, avoid layoffs, and will also 
ensure the continued benefits of energy 
savings and consumer savings because 
of increased energy efficiency. 

H.R. 6582 carries the support of the 
Air Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration 
Institute, the Industrial Energy 
Consumers of America, as well as 
the American Council for an Energy-
Efficient Economy, the Alliance to 
Save Energy, and the National Association 
of Manufacturers. 
This bill shows that we can work together 
in Congress in a bipartisan manner 
to tackle important energy issues. 
To that end, I once again want to 
thank my colleagues on the other side 
of the aisle, Mr. WAXMAN and his staff, 
for working with us to help develop 
this legislation that we all can support. 

I might add that many of us on this 
side of the aisle feel as though the 2007 
energy bill has many provisions that 
we believe to be challenging for stimulating 
private growth and creating 
jobs. I hope my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle will continue to work 
with us on these matters in the future. 

As the 112th Congress comes to a 
close, the passage of this modest but 
important energy efficiency bill gives 
me hope that we can work together in 
the coming years to tackle the many 
energy challenges facing America. I encourage 
my colleagues to support passage 
of H.R. 6582. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE 
ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND 
TECHNOLOGY, 

Washington, DC, December 3, 2012. 

Hon. FRED UPTON, 

Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
Rayburn HOB, Washington, DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN UPTON: I am writing to 
you concerning the jurisdictional interest of 
the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
in H.R. 6582, the American Energy 
Manufacturing Technical Corrections Act. 
The suspension text version of H.R. 6582, 
posted on November 30, 2012 contains multiple 
provisions from H.R. 4850, the Enabling 
Energy Saving Innovations Act, as amended 
and passed by the Senate on September 22, 
2012 under unanimous consent, which are 
outside the original scope of H.R. 4850, as introduced 
and passed by the House on June 26, 
2012. 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6603 

While the text of H.R. 6582 reflects an 
agreement reached by the House Energy and 
Commerce Committee and the Senate Energy 
and Natural Resources Committee, the 
text also contains provisions that fall within 
the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology. 

I recognize and appreciate the desire to 
bring this legislation before the House of 
Representatives, and accordingly, I will 
waive further consideration of this bill in 
Committee, notwithstanding any provisions 
that fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology. 
This waiver, of course, is conditional on our 
mutual understanding that agreeing to 
waive consideration of this bill should not be 
construed as waiving, reducing, or affecting 
the jurisdiction of the Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology. 

Additionally, the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology expressly reserves its 
authority to seek conferees on any provision 
within its jurisdiction during any House-
Senate conference that may be convened on 
this, or any similar legislation. I ask for 
your commitment to support any request by 
the Committee for conferees on H.R. 6582, as 
well as any similar or related legislation. 

I ask that a copy of this letter be placed in 
the Congressional Record during consideration 
of the bill on the House floor. 

Sincerely, 

RALPH M. HALL, 

Chairman, Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology. 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM


MITTEE ON ENERGY AND COM


MERCE, 

Washington, DC, December 3, 2012. 

Hon. RALPH M. HALL, 

Chairman, Committee on Science, Space, and 

Technology, Rayburn HOB, Washington, 

DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN HALL: Thank you for your 
letter regarding H.R. 6582, the ‘‘American 
Energy Manufacturing Technical Corrections 
Act,’’ which reflects the agreement 
reached by the House and the Senate concerning 
the competing versions of H.R. 4850 
passed by each body. As you noted, the 
version of H.R. 6582 that will be considered 
on the Floor contains provisions that fall 
within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology. 

I appreciate your willingness to forgo action 
on H.R. 6582, and I agree that your decision 
should not prejudice the Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology with respect 
to the appointment of conferees or its jurisdictional 
prerogatives on this or similar legislation, 
for which you will have my support. 

I will include a copy of your letter and this 
response in the Congressional Record during 
consideration of the bill on the House floor. 

Sincerely, 

FRED UPTON, 

Chairman. 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM


MITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND 

INFRASTRUCTURE, 

Washington, DC, December 3, 2012. 

Hon. FRED UPTON, 

Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
House of Representatives, Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I write concerning 

H.R. 6582, the ‘‘American Energy Manufacturing 
Technical Corrections Act.’’ There are 
certain provisions in the version of HR. 6582 
that will be considered on the House Floor 
that fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of 
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
In order to expedite the House’s consideration 
of H.R. 6582, the Committee will forgo 
action on this bill. However, this is condi


tional on our mutual understanding that forgoing 
consideration of the bill does not prejudice 
the Committee with respect to the appointment 
of conferees or to any future jurisdictional 
claim over the subject matters 
contained in this bill or similar legislation 
which fall within the Committee’s Rule X jurisdiction. 


I would appreciate your response to this 
letter, confirming this understanding, and 
would request that you include our exchange 
of letters on this matter in the Congressional 
Record during consideration of this 
bill on the House floor. 

Sincerely, 

JOHN L. MICA, 

Chairman. 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM


MITTEE ON ENERGY AND COM


MERCE, 

Washington, DC, December 3, 2012. 

Hon. JOHN L. MICA, 

Chairman, Committee on Transportation and 

Infrastructure, Rayburn HOB, Washington, 

DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN MICA: Thank you for your 
letter regarding H.R. 6582, the ‘‘American 
Energy Manufacturing Technical Corrections 
Act,’’ which reflects the agreement 
reached by the House and the Senate concerning 
the competing versions of H.R. 4850 
passed by each body. As you noted, the 
version of H.R. 6582 that will be considered 
on the Floor contains provisions that fall 
within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 


I appreciate your willingness to forgo action 
on H.R. 6582, and I agree that your decision 
should not prejudice the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure with respect 
to the appointment of conferees or its 
jurisdictional prerogatives on this or similar 
legislation, for which you will have my support. 


I will include a copy of your letter and this 
response in the Congressional Record during 
consideration of the bill on the House floor. 

Sincerely, 

FRED UPTON, 

Chairman. 

DECEMBER 4, 2012. 
Representative UPTON, 

House of Representatives, Rayburn HOB, Washington, 
DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN UPTON: On behalf of the 
American Public Gas Association (APGA), 
and the American Gas Association (AGA) we 
would like to convey our concerns regarding 

H.R 6582, The American Energy Manufacturing 
Technical Corrections Act. 
APGA is the national association for pub-
licly-owned natural gas distribution systems. 
There are approximately 1,000 public 
gas systems in 36 states and approximately 
700 of these systems are APGA members. 
Publicly-owned gas systems are not-for-profit, 
retail distribution entities owned by, and 
accountable to, the citizens they serve. They 
include municipal gas distribution systems, 
public utility districts, county districts, and 
other public agencies that have natural gas 
distribution facilities. 

AGA represents more than 200 local energy 
companies that deliver clean natural gas 
throughout the United States. There are 
more than 71 million residential, commercial, 
and industrial natural gas customers in 
the U.S., of which 92 percent—more than 65 
million customers—receive their gas from 
AGA members. 

First, H.R. 6582 directs the Department of 
Energy to transition from the current, separate 
definitions for water heaters, to a uniform 
energy descriptor for all covered water 
heaters and to establish testing procedures. 

We have concerns about these testing procedures. 
The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating 
and Air-Conditioning (ASHRAE) 
is currently revising its Standard 118.2, 
Method of Testing for Rating Residential 
Water Heaters. ASHRAE is an internationally 
recognized American National Standards 
Institute (ANSI) accredited standards 
developer. Standard 118.2 will provide testing 
changes as well as potential changes to energy 
descriptors. When drafting the testing 
procedures, DOE should consider ASHRAE 

118.2. In fact, DOE is already engaged in rule-
making on test procedures for these products 
where ASHRAE 118.2 can be referenced for 
adoption. 
Second, we are concerned that this legislation 
invites additional regulation of residential 
water heaters by the U. S. Consumer 
Product Safety Commission and may encourage 
the unnecessary expansion of that 
group’s Flammable Vapor Ignition Resistant 
(FVIR) requirements beyond their current 
scope, which could have a chilling impact on 
the applications of condensing storage gas 
water heaters. 

Third, we are concerned that the language 
in this bill that sets minimum efficiency levels 
for small-duct, high-velocity central systems, 
lowers existing efficiency standards 
and preferences the use of electric appliances 
over equivalent natural gas appliances. The 
first minimum efficiencies on these products 
were promulgated in 2004, effective January 
23, 2006 and required 7.7 HSPF (heating seasonal 
performance factor) or higher, whereas 
this legislation requires only 6.8 HSPF and 

7.2 HSPF minimums while comparable natural 
gas heat pumps are still subject to the 
higher minimum standard of 7.7 HSPF. 
Despite these concerns, we do not oppose 
the bill. Our objective is to bring these concerns 
to your attention and to encourage the 
Department of Energy to work with APGA 
and AGA in the rulemaking process to ensure 
that the views of our members are considered. 


APGA and AGA appreciate your consideration 
of our views and look forward to working 
further with you on this and other natural 
gas issues. 

Sincerely, 
BERT KALISCH, 

President & CEO, 
American Public Gas Association. 

DAVE MCCURDY, 

President & CEO, 
American Gas Association. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

The United States and the world are 
facing an enormous and growing 
threat: The pollution we are putting 
into the atmosphere is changing the 
climate around us. In this last year 
alone, New York City has been flooded 
by a superstorm, the Midwest has 
roasted in record-setting drought, and 
wildfires have scorched the West. These 
are not aberrations. They are the early 
warning signs of what the future will 
look like. 

Today, on one of the very last days of 
this Congress, we’re taking our first 
step to recognize this looming threat. 
It’s not a big step—in fact, it’s a tiny 
one—but it gives hope that we can 
work together, and it is a signal that 
at least we are headed in the right direction. 


Energy efficiency is an essential part 
of any serious effort to address climate 
change. It is the low-hanging fruit that 
reduces pollution while saving Americans 
money and creating jobs. Whether 


H6604 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

it’s a building code or appliance standard 
or home retrofit, we should be 
doing far more in this area. In fact, a 
recent International Energy Agency 
analysis found that without new policies, 
two-thirds of the cost-effective 
energy efficiency gains that could be 
made will remain unrealized through 
2035. 

This bill includes a number of noncontroversial 
technical fixes to appliance 
energy efficiency standards for 
water heaters, walk-in freezers, deli 
counter-style refrigerators, and certain 
types of air conditioners. The bill includes 
improvements to the process by 
which the Department of Energy updates 
its energy efficiency standards. 
In addition, there are a few sensible 
provisions to promote industrial energy 
efficiency and the efficiency of 
Federal Government buildings. 

This bill will not produce large energy 
savings, but it’s a worthwhile 
package of consensus improvements. 
The package is based on provisions 
that recently passed the Senate by 
unanimous consent. Both industry and 
energy efficiency advocates support 
the bill. This is a bill that has a very 
good chance of becoming law this 
month. 

But we need to do much, much more. 
The beginning of a new Congress provides 
us an opportunity to work together 
on a bipartisan basis to enact 
commonsense energy efficiency legislation. 
Such legislation will save consumers 
money, boost domestic manufacturing, 
while cutting pollution, including 
the carbon pollution that is 
driving dangerous climate change. 

I look forward to starting those discussions 
with Chairman UPTON and our 
Energy and Commerce Committee colleagues. 
There are many good ideas for 
policies that would reduce waste and 
save energy, and we should work together 
to explore those ideas and enact 
the ones we can agree on. 

b 1240 
Today’s bill is a first step. I encourage 
my colleagues to support it, and I 
reserve the balance of my time. 
Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. ADERHOLT), who wrote a 
portion of this bill and whose State is 
at risk of losing jobs because of some 
technicalities. 
Mr. ADERHOLT. I want to thank the 
gentleman from Kentucky for his time 
and just take a moment to say how 
much we appreciate working with him 
and his staff on this legislation as 
we’ve moved forward. 
As has been mentioned here, the purpose 
of this legislation, in many respects, 
is to make critical technical 
changes to the 2007 Energy Independence 
and Security Act, known as EISA, 
which will both preserve jobs and create 
new jobs in several related fields of 
industry. 
I want to speak in particular to section 
313 of EISA as it relates to the efficiency 
standards of walk-in coolers 

and freezers. The section mandates 
that cooler and freezer doors must 
meet a certain R-value as a measurement 
of their ability to retain temperature 
and use less energy. The problem 
here is that R-value is a measurement 
based primarily on one insulating 
product in particular—foam—and on 
how thick that foam actually is. However, 
requiring a product to meet an R-
value prohibits technologies that are 
just as efficient even though they utilize 
alternative materials or technologies. 


In this case, the technology is even 
more efficient. Although regulatory 
statutes many times provide the Department 
of Energy with a waiver authority, 
a waiver was not a part of this 
particular statute. This legislation provides 
the Department of Energy with 
the authority to waive the requirement 
if they determine a product meets or 
exceeds the desired energy-efficiency 
goals. 

Bureaucratic red tape and Federal 
regulations can sometimes accidentally 
keep America’s innovators and 
small businesses from creating jobs. 
Therefore, the Manufacturing Technical 
Corrections Act is a commonsense 
solution which maintains standards 
and yet corrects a problem which 
otherwise stifles growth and causes 
companies to lose jobs. Due to an increase 
in regulation over the past few 
years, too many small businesses have 
had to lay off employees, reduce production, 
and even shut their doors. 
This is precisely what happened to an 
innovative manufacturing company in 
the district I represent back in Alabama. 


The Federal Government’s embrace 
of outdated technology prohibits new 
and innovative solutions to improve 
energy efficiency. Without sacrificing 
the efficiency standards which drove 
the original bill, my bill here that 
we’re discussing this afternoon merely 
makes a commonsense update. 

Just to be clear, this legislation, H.R. 
6582, does not create new standards, but 
it does make existing standards better 
for businesses and better for consumers. 
I can personally attest that 
this technical corrections bill will directly 
affect over 100 jobs in the State 
of Alabama, and potentially many others 
could be created with this new and 
innovative technology. The other sections 
of this bill affect a similar and, in 
some cases, I’m told, an even greater 
amount of jobs in other places in the 
country. 

Simply put, this commonsense legislation 
provides technical corrections 
which remove barriers to technologies 
and which untie the hands of companies 
that manufacture here in the 
United States of America. This means 
jobs. And not only by moving this legislation 
will we be able to create jobs, 
but we’ll be able also to make sure that 
we continue economic growth in this 
country. 

Therefore, I suggest and urge my colleagues 
that they support this legislation 
that’s on the floor today. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I am 
pleased at this time to yield 3 minutes 
to the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. 
CARNAHAN). 

Mr. CARNAHAN. I rise today on behalf 
of H.R. 6582, the American Energy 
Manufacturing Act. This is truly a 
commonsense, bipartisan bill. I’ve been 
proud to work on it with my friend and 
neighbor, Representative JOHN SHIMKUS 
of Illinois, and also with Congresswoman 
JUDY BIGGERT, who has been 
my cochair of the High-Performance 
Building Caucus. I want to thank Congressman 
WHITFIELD and Congressman 
WAXMAN for their leadership on this 
matter here on the floor today. 

And, finally, the gentleman from 
Alabama (Mr. ADERHOLT) for his leadership 
in moving this bill forward 
today and for including legislation that 
I sponsored in 2010, the Small Duct, 
High Velocity Energy Efficiency 
Standards for America Act. Small 
duct, high velocity systems are a special 
type of heating, ventilation, and 
air conditioning systems. It is more energy 
efficient than traditional units, 
especially for older and historic homes 
and buildings with limited space for 
new duct work. 

Even though it’s more efficient, the 
Department of Energy lumped these 
new systems in with a rulemaking for 
regular systems in 2002. The Department 
eventually granted a waiver, basically 
saying that these new small 
duct systems could be sold anyway as 
efficient products. But the legislation 
before us today will codify that waiver 
into law so that American manufacturers 
and consumers can truly benefit 
from the advantages of these types of 
products. 

Unico is a company that is one of 
several that manufacture these systems. 
It is a small business of about 80 
employees in my hometown of St. 
Louis, Missouri. I’ve toured the Unico 
plant, and I’ve met with their employees. 
I’ve seen the pride in their work, 
the craftsmanship that they display. 
And those products go not just around 
the U.S., but around the world. 

Unico is an American success story. 
It’s a small business created in America, 
manufacturing products in America, 
and creating good-paying manufacturing 
and construction jobs—exactly 
what this Congress and this country 
should be all about. And when the 
actor Brad Pitt, also a Missouri native, 
and the Make It Right Foundation unveiled 
plans to build over 100 super-energy-
efficient homes in New Orleans, 
they looked around the world to find 
low-cost, energy-efficient systems, and 
they chose Unico, creating more jobs in 
my hometown. We’re proud of that. 
But it isn’t just about jobs, though. It’s 
about becoming more energy efficient 
as a Nation. 

Heating and cooling account for 56 
percent of energy use in the typical 
house, making it the largest energy expense 
for most families. Air conditioners 
alone use roughly 5 percent of 
all electricity nationwide, at a cost of 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6605 

over $11 billion to homeowners, releasing 
nearly 100 million tons of carbon 
dioxide into the atmosphere. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
the gentleman an additional 30 seconds. 


Mr. CARNAHAN. Domestic manufacturing 
and use of high-energy heating 
and cooling systems like the ones produced 
by Unico will reduce energy up 
to 50 percent, save consumers billions 
of dollars a year, and create jobs. I 
urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on this bill and 
thank my colleagues for their work 
today. 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 4 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. SHIMKUS), 
who is chairman of the Environment 
and Economy Subcommittee. 

(Mr. SHIMKUS asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. SHIMKUS. I also come down in 
support of H.R. 6582 and want to address 
the small duct, high velocity system 
provisions in this bill. But first let 
me talk about my friend and colleague, 
RUSS CARNAHAN. The Carnahan name 
in my neighboring State of Missouri is 
well known and well respected. RUSS 
added to that legacy, and I thank him 
for his service, and I thank him for his 
friendship. 

Mr. Speaker, small duct, high velocity 
systems are a special type of heating, 
ventilating, and air conditioning 
used especially for older homes and 
buildings that don’t have room for duct 
work. In terms of delivered efficiency, 
these units are more energy efficient 
than traditional HVAC units, a fact 
widely recognized, including by the Department 
of Energy. 

Unfortunately, more than 10 years 
ago, these small duct units were incorrectly 
lumped into a rulemaking for 
regular HVAC units. Subsequent administrations 
have attempted to correct 
this error in the past through unrelated 
rulemaking regarding efficiency 
standards for different types of 
units. However, the rulemaking for 
these unrelated units was challenged 
and overturned. Because small duct, 
high velocity units were included, the 
court’s findings applied to them as 
well. 

b 1250 
The result of the court ruling forbids 
DOE efficiency rulemakings that 
ratchet down standards already in 
place, even if those in place were promulgated 
by mistake, as in the case of 
these units. Despite this ruling, DOE 
has recognized small duct high velocity 
systems as unique and that they should 
have their own set of efficiency standards. 
As a result, DOE has given these 
systems waivers to be sold as efficient 
products. 
Mr. Speaker, the provisions of H.R. 
6582 related to small duct high velocity 
systems are taken from H.R. 1499 that 
Mr. CARNAHAN and I have been working 

on. The language will codify these 
waivers already in place and set up a 
regulatory process so sellers of these 
systems can have relief from this regulatory 
burden. Furthermore, consumers 
will have peace of mind that 
these products are truly energy efficient 
while meeting their needs and 
not just operating under a waiver. 

I urge my colleagues to support the 
entire bill, H.R. 6582. And to my friend, 
Mr. WAXMAN, who is very passionate on 
climate, he also knows that there are 
those of us who are just as passionate 
about jobs and the economy and the 
fossil fuel economy, and I hope that we 
can work together in the next Congress. 


Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I am 
pleased at this time to yield 3 minutes 
to the gentleman from Vermont (Mr. 
WELCH), who is going to be joining 
again the Energy and Commerce Committee 
to my great delight. 

Mr. WELCH. I thank the gentleman 
from California, and I look forward to 
returning to the committee and working 
with my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle as well. 

I’m very pleased to be here supporting 
this legislation. Energy efficiency 
makes sense. We have brutal arguments 
here about climate change, 
about what is the right fuel source. 
They’re dividing us. But the fact is 
whether you believe in climate change 
or not, even under the bill that was 
passed—not this session, but a session 
ago—we could have met one-third of 
our climate reduction, carbon emission 
goals through efficiency. There is an 
enormous potential in efficiency to 
make this economy better, to create 
local jobs, to save people money. This 
legislation starts down that road, and 
it’s very good. 

I look and see some of my colleagues 
over there, even my friend from Georgia. 
I think we accidentally voted the 
same on one or two pieces of legislation 
this year—and I’m not quite sure 
who made the mistake. But our eyes 
are wide open on this one with efficiency. 
We know that this is good for 
Georgia, it’s good for Vermont. And it 
does not matter what your fuel source 
is—you can be a nuclear person or a 
clean energy person—using less is good 
for the pocketbook, it’s good for the 
economy. 

I would like to expand on this when 
we come back next year, find that area 
where we’re in agreement on efficiency 
and energy and intensify it. When I 
served on the committee, we did pass 
HOME STAR. I’ve partnered this session 
with Mr. MCKINLEY of West Virginia 
on a version of that, the HOMES 
Act, where we would give some incentive 
to homeowners to retrofit their 
homes. The evidence is that if you did 
this in an aggressive way, 95 percent of 
the materials that are used in retrofitting 
a home are manufactured in 
America, so we put those manufacturing 
jobs back online. 

Number two, the folks who do the 
work are the trade folks, who are real


ly still reeling from the housing slump. 
So they’ve got the skills and they need 
the work; we put them back to work. 
Then your bill at home, as a homeowner—
whatever your heat source— 
goes down. This is sensible and we can 
do it. 

It’s going to take some decisions on 
spending. I hope we can get past this 
notion that every dollar spent is a bad 
dollar spent. There are times when it 
makes sense to invest because you get 
a good return on it, and that’s from 
somebody who does believe that we’ve 
got to bring our budget in balance. 

So I say to the sponsors of this legislation, 
our leaders on the committee, 
and my colleagues on both sides of the 
aisle, this is a tremendous down-payment 
on efficiency that will be good for 
this Congress to work together on and 
good for this country to get it done. 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I 
might say that we’re all looking forward 
to working with the gentleman 
from Vermont as he comes back to the 
Energy and Commerce Committee. 

At this time, I’d like to yield 3 minutes 
to the gentleman from Georgia 
(Mr. WESTMORELAND), who wrote a portion 
of this bill. 

Mr. WESTMORELAND. I want to 
thank the gentleman from Kentucky 
for yielding me the time. I also want to 
thank the gentleman from Alabama 
(Mr. ADERHOLT) for all the hard work 
that he and his staff and the staff of 
Energy and Commerce have put into 
this. I also want to thank the gentleman 
from California and his staff for 
working with us to get this small part 
into this bill. 

Mr. Speaker, we are asked a lot of 
times what part of this job we enjoy 
the most, and whether you’re talking 
to a school group or a group from one 
of the civic clubs, sometimes it’s hard 
to come up with an answer. But in this 
case, this would be one of those cases 
where we have come together, both 
sides of the aisle, and actually worked 
together. 

To my friend from Vermont, I will 
tell you that hopefully those occasions 
where we vote together will not be as 
unusual as they have been. But I look 
forward to voting with him on this 
issue because this is almost a jobs bill. 
We heard the gentleman from Alabama 
and the gentleman from Missouri and 
others talk about the number of jobs 
that this is going to save. This is taking 
into consideration our precious energy 
and making sure that we get the 
best efficiency out of it, and at the 
same time maintaining jobs. 

My part of this legislation is section 
342(c), which deals with the display 
cases. In this case, in the State of 
Georgia and the city of Columbus, it 
has the potential of saving 1,180 jobs. 
At this point, with 13 million unemployed 
in this country and many more 
underemployed, it’s very important for 
us to come together. I think this is a 
great example of how we can come together 
to make sure that we are good 
stewards of our energy, to make sure 


H6606 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

that our products are the best in the 
world, the most energy efficient, but 
yet have commonsense regulations 
that allow us to continue to push these 
and make these products here in this 
country. 

So again, I want to thank everybody 
for their support and hard work on 
this, and especially from those 1,180 
people in Georgia that will be able to 
maintain employment. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I continue 
to reserve my time. 

Mr. WHITFIELD. At this time, Mr. 
Speaker, I would like to yield 3 minutes 
to the gentlelady from Tennessee 
(Mrs. BLACKburn), who is a member of 
the Energy and Commerce Committee. 

Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. Speaker, I do 
rise in strong support of H.R. 6582 
today. I am so pleased to stand and to 
thank Mr. WHITFIELD and Mr. ADERHOLT 
for the work that they have done 
on this. Also, I want to thank Mr. WAXMAN 
for his efforts in this bill. 

I also want to commend my colleague, 
Mr. COOPER, from Tennessee. 
He and I had authored a piece of legislation, 
H.R. 482, the Water Heater Rating 
Improvement Act of 2011, and it is 
now section 3 of the underlying bill. 

Essentially, what this section 3 
would do is to fix a regulatory problem 
related to the test methodology that 
the DOE uses to calculate the efficiency 
levels of water heaters, which 
even the DOE has acknowledged that 
the way they’re doing this is broken 
and it does need to be fixed. 

This legislation will also level the 
playing field for our domestic water 
heater manufacturers who are currently 
at a competitive disadvantage 
with the foreign manufacturers. Of 
course we all know our focus is on jobs 
and the economy and getting our domestic 
manufacturing back to the pace 
where it should be for global competition. 


b 1300 
Essentially the problem is this: under 
the current standards, the small and 
large water heaters are divided into 
two categories under two separate Federal 
statutes. These statutes are based 
on an arbitrary gallon capacity and energy 
input ratings. The smaller water 
heaters are covered by the National 
Appliance Energy Conservation Act 
and are rated using an Energy Factor, 
or an EF rating. Now the larger water 
heaters are within the scope of the Energy 
Policy Act and are rated using a 
Thermal Efficiency, or TE rating. 
The problem facing American manufacturers 
is that under the current 
rules of the road, only the small water 
heaters are deemed eligible under the 
ENERGY STAR program. This is nonsensical. 
It’s an outdated measure and 
disqualifies our large American-made 
water heaters from being covered by 
the ENERGY STAR ratings regardless 
of how advanced or how highly efficient 
they may be. 
The legislation before us today would 
provide the necessary regulatory and 

business certainty that is needed by 
our manufacturers. This legislation has 
the potential of adding upwards of 1,000 
jobs for domestic water heater manufacturers, 
many of them in my home 
State of Tennessee, where there are already 
3,000 jobs directly involved in the 
manufacturing of water heaters. 

I thank the chairman again. I thank 
the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. 
ADERHOLT), and I also want to commend 
the gentleman from Tennessee 
(Mr. COOPER). 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, at 
this time, I would like to yield for a period 
of 3 minutes to Dr. ROE of Tennessee, 
who is a member of the Education 
Committee. 

Mr. ROE of Tennessee. I thank the 
chairman for yielding. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support 
of H.R. 6582. This legislation would establish 
a uniform energy-efficiency 
descriptor for all water heaters, walk-
in freezers, and walk-in coolers. The 
legislation also improves the testing 
methods that determine whether or not 
these products are energy efficient, 
which will provide certainty for the 
manufacturers of these products. 

The importance in my district, in my 
hometown, is one of our largest manufacturers 
there is A.O. Smith, which 
makes up to 8,000 water heaters a day. 
This is a real jobs issue in my hometown. 
These jobs have good retirement 
plans and health insurance. Their competitors 
are both in Canada and Mexico. 
And certainly we need to do anything 
we can to help support these 
local manufacturers. 

This bill will make it easier for consumers 
to compare the energy efficiency 
of products and eliminate confusion 
that stems from having more than 
one type of label. The decision to invest 
in a large-scale appliance of this 
nature is a big one, and during these 
tough economic times, consumers deserve 
information that’s easily understood 
so that they can make well-informed 
decisions. It’s also helpful for 
manufacturers to have clear guidelines 
for how products will be judged for energy 
efficiency. And this is why—just 
to simplify what’s going on to make it 
easier for our manufacturers. 

And let me tell you, I’ve walked 
through A.O. Smith’s plant. I’ve been 
through it. It’s absolutely incredible to 
see a piece of sheet metal, to see our 
manufacturers take a piece of metal 
and produce 8,000 water heaters in a 
single day for consumption in the 
United States. I have one in my home. 
That’s what I use. And I proudly have 
one in my apartment here in Washington, 
D.C. 

I would encourage support of this 
measure. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have 
no further requests for time on my side 
of the aisle to support this legislation. 
I know that almost all Democrats that 
I have talked to think it’s a good bill. 
I have urged the others to join with 
them in supporting it. I think it’s a 
worthwhile piece of legislation. It’s a 

small step, but it’s a step in the right 
direction. And it will clarify some 
issues that still need to be clarified. So 
let’s get this done. 

And in pursuit of that objective, I 
yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. WHITFIELD. I also want to urge 
everyone to support H.R. 6582, a small, 
modest, energy-efficiency bill that will 
save some jobs. 

I certainly want to thank the Members 
of the Senate, the Senate staff, 
the gentleman from California (Mr. 
WAXMAN) and his committee staff, and 
certainly the Energy and Power staff 
here on the House side for being involved 
in these negotiations and working 
this out. 

With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to extend my support for the American 
Energy Manufacturing Technical Corrections 
Act. 

The bill would lessen the regulatory burden 
on deli-style display cases (like the ones in 
grocery stores) by placing Service-Over-the-
Counter (SOTC) refrigerator units into a separate 
product classification. 

Currently, SOTC refrigerator units must 
meet the efficiency standards designed for 
commercial refrigerators otherwise called 
‘‘reach-ins.’’ These SOTC units are designed 
for maximum product visibility and presentation. 
They require more glass and lighting 
than conventional reach-ins. Their inherent design 
makes it impossible to reach the minimum 
efficiency standards established in the 
Energy Policy Act of 2005. 

There are a number of companies that 
would be affected by this regulation, totaling 
about 8,500 jobs across the country. One of 
those five companies is Lennox, employs approximately 
1,700 people in the State of Georgia. 
Kysor/Warren became a subsidiary of 
Lennox International in 2011, and the company 
has been a leading manufacturer of refrigerated 
systems and display cases for supermarkets 
throughout North America. By creating 
a separate product class for service-
over-the-counter products, we can help save 
jobs in many communities. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me 
in support of this important legislation to protect 
American jobs in our communities. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. 
WHITFIELD) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 6582, as 
amended. 

The question was taken. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the 
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being 
in the affirmative, the ayes have it. 

Mr. WHITFIELD. Mr. Speaker, on 

that I demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 of rule XX, further proceedings 
on this question will be postponed. 


f 

RECESS 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair 
declares the House in recess until approximately 
1:45 p.m. today. 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6607 

Accordingly (at 1 o’clock and 4 minutes 
p.m.), the House stood in recess. 

f 

b 1345 

AFTER RECESS 

The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker pro 
tempore (Mr. YODER) at 1 o’clock and 
45 minutes p.m. 

f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 of rule XX, proceedings 
will resume on questions previously 
postponed. Votes will be taken in the 
following order: 

Motion to suspend on H.R. 6582 and 
approval of the Journal, each by the 
yeas and nays. 

The first electronic vote will be conducted 
as a 15-minute vote. The second 
electronic vote will be conducted as a 
5-minute vote. 

f 

AMERICAN ENERGY MANUFAC


TURING TECHNICAL CORREC


TIONS ACT 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The unfinished 
business is the vote on the motion 
to suspend the rules and pass the 
bill (H.R. 6582) to allow for innovations 
and alternative technologies that meet 
or exceed desired energy efficiency 
goals, and to make technical corrections 
to existing Federal energy efficiency 
laws to allow American manufacturers 
to remain competitive, as 
amended, on which the yeas and nays 
were ordered. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. 
WHITFIELD) that the House suspend the 
rules and pass the bill, as amended. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 398, nays 2, 
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 30, as 

follows: 
[Roll No. 614] 
YEAS—398 
Adams Blackburn Carnahan 
Aderholt Blumenauer Carney 
Alexander Bonamici Carson (IN) 
Altmire Boren Carter 
Amodei Boswell Cassidy 
Andrews Boustany Castor (FL) 
Austria Brady (PA) Chabot 
Bachus Brady (TX) Chaffetz 
Baldwin Braley (IA) Chandler 
Barber Brooks Chu 
Barletta Broun (GA) Cicilline 
Barrow Brown (FL) Clarke (MI) 
Barton (TX) Buchanan Clarke (NY) 
Bass (CA) Bucshon Clay 
Becerra Buerkle Cleaver 
Benishek Burgess Clyburn 
Berg Burton (IN) Coble 
Berkley Butterfield Coffman (CO) 
Berman Calvert Cohen 
Biggert Camp Cole 
Bilbray Campbell Conaway 
Bilirakis Canseco Connolly (VA) 
Bishop (GA) Cantor Conyers 
Bishop (NY) Capito Cooper 
Bishop (UT) Capps Costa 
Black Capuano Costello 

Courtney 
Cravaack 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Critz 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Culberson 
Cummings 
Curson (MI) 
Davis (CA) 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
Denham 
Dent 
DesJarlais 
Deutch 
Diaz-Balart 
Dicks 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Dold 
Donnelly (IN) 
Doyle 
Dreier 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Ellmers 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Farenthold 
Farr 
Fattah 
Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Flake 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Flores 
Forbes 
Foxx 
Frank (MA) 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Fudge 
Gallegly 
Garamendi 
Gardner 
Garrett 
Gerlach 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gohmert 
Gonzalez 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (MO) 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Griffin (AR) 
Griffith (VA) 
Grimm 
Guinta 
Guthrie 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 
Hall 
Hanabusa 
Hanna 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayworth 
Heck 
Hensarling 
Herger 
Herrera Beutler 
Himes 
Hinojosa 
Hirono 
Hochul 
Holden 
Holt 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurt 

Israel 
Issa 
Jackson Lee 

(TX) 
Jenkins 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones 
Jordan 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly 
Kildee 
Kind 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kissell 
Kucinich 
Labrador 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Landry 
Langevin 
Lankford 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Latta 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 
Lewis (CA) 
Lewis (GA) 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Loebsack 
Lofgren, Zoe 
Long 
Lowey 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Luja´n 
Lummis 
Lungren, Daniel 

E. 
Lynch 
Maloney 
Manzullo 
Marchant 
Markey 
Massie 
Matheson 
Matsui 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCaul 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McHenry 
McIntyre 
McKeon 
McKinley 
McMorris 

Rodgers 
McNerney 
Meehan 
Meeks 
Mica 
Michaud 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Miller (NC) 
Miller, George 
Moore 
Moran 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (CT) 
Murphy (PA) 
Myrick 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Neugebauer 
Noem 
Nugent 
Nunnelee 
Olson 
Olver 
Owens 
Palazzo 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Paulsen 

Payne 
Pearce 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters 
Peterson 
Petri 
Pingree (ME) 
Pitts 
Poe (TX) 
Polis 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price (GA) 
Price (NC) 
Quayle 
Quigley 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Reed 
Rehberg 
Reichert 
Renacci 
Reyes 
Ribble 
Richardson 
Richmond 
Rigell 
Rivera 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross (AR) 
Ross (FL) 
Roybal-Allard 
Royce 
Runyan 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Ryan (WI) 
Sa´nchez, Linda 

T. 
Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Scalise 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schmidt 
Schock 
Schrader 
Schwartz 
Schweikert 
Scott (SC) 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, Austin 
Scott, David 
Sensenbrenner 
Serrano 
Sessions 
Sewell 
Sherman 
Shimkus 
Shuler 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Smith (WA) 
Southerland 
Speier 
Stark 
Stearns 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Sutton 
Terry 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tierney 
Tipton 
Tonko 
Tsongas 
Turner (NY) 
Turner (OH) 
Upton 

Van Hollen Watt Womack 
Vela´ zquez Waxman Woodall 
Visclosky Webster Woolsey 
Walberg West Yarmuth 
Walden Westmoreland Yoder 
Walsh (IL) 
Walz (MN) 
Wasserman 
Schultz 
Whitfield 
Wilson (FL) 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) 
Waters Wolf 
NAYS—2 
Amash McClintock 

ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1 

Emerson 

NOT VOTING—30 

Ackerman Gingrey (GA) Miller, Gary 
Akin Grijalva Nunes 
Baca Hastings (FL) Paul 
Bachmann Heinrich Pence 
Bartlett Higgins Platts 
Bass (NH) Hinchey Rothman (NJ) 
Bonner Johnson (IL) Schilling 
Bono Mack Kline Sullivan 
Davis (IL) Mack Towns 
Fortenberry Marino Welch 

b 1407 

Ms. WILSON of Florida changed her 
vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’ 

So (two-thirds being in the affirmative) 
the rules were suspended and the 
bill, as amended, was passed. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

THE JOURNAL 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The unfinished 
business is the question on 
agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of 
the Journal, on which the yeas and 
nays were ordered. 

The question is on the Speaker’s ap


proval of the Journal. 
This will be a 5-minute vote. 
The vote was taken by electronic de


vice, and there were—yeas 290, nays 
106, answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting 
33, as follows: 

[Roll No. 615] 
YEAS—290 

Aderholt Butterfield Cummings 
Alexander Calvert Davis (CA) 
Altmire Camp DeGette 
Amodei Campbell DeLauro 
Austria Canseco DelBene 
Bachus Cantor Dent 
Barber Capito Deutch 
Barletta Capps Diaz-Balart 
Barrow Carnahan Dicks 
Barton (TX) Carney Doggett 
Becerra Carson (IN) Doyle 
Berg Carter Dreier 
Berkley Cassidy Duncan (SC) 
Berman Castor (FL) Duncan (TN) 
Biggert Chabot Edwards 
Bilbray Chaffetz Ellmers 
Bilirakis Chandler Emerson 
Bishop (GA) Chu Engel 
Bishop (UT) Cicilline Farr 
Black Clarke (MI) Fattah 
Blackburn Clay Fincher 
Blumenauer Cleaver Flake 
Bonamici Clyburn Fleischmann 
Boren Coble Fleming 
Boustany Cohen Flores 
Brady (TX) Cole Forbes 
Braley (IA) Connolly (VA) Franks (AZ) 
Brooks Conyers Frelinghuysen 
Broun (GA) Cooper Fudge 
Brown (FL) Courtney Gallegly 
Buchanan Cravaack Garamendi 
Bucshon Crenshaw Gerlach 
Buerkle Cuellar Gibbs 
Burton (IN) Culberson Gonzalez 


H6608 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

Goodlatte McCaul Ryan (WI) Thompson (MS) Visclosky Woolsey Garamendi Luetkemeyer Ros-Lehtinen 
Gosar McClintock Sanchez, Loretta Tipton Waters Yoder Gardner Luja´ n Roskam 
Gowdy McCollum Scalise Vela´ zquez Woodall Young (AK) Garrett Lummis Ross (AR) 
Green, Al 
Griffith (VA) 
McHenry 
McIntyre 
Schiff 
Schmidt ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2 
Gerlach 
Gibbs 
Lungren, Daniel 
E. 
Ross (FL) 
Roybal-Allard 
Grimm McKeon Schrader Amash Owens Gibson Lynch Royce 
Guthrie 
Gutierrez 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
Schwartz 
Schweikert NOT VOTING—33 
Gonzalez 
Goodlatte 
Maloney 
Manzullo 
Runyan 
Ruppersberger 
Hahn 
Hall 
Hanabusa 
Harper 
Harris 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayworth 
Hensarling 
Herger 
Hinojosa 
Hirono 
Hochul 
Holden 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hurt 
Issa 
Jenkins 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones 
Jordan 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kissell 
Labrador 
Lamborn 
Langevin 
Lankford 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
LaTourette 
Levin 
Lewis (CA) 
Lipinski 
Loebsack 
Lofgren, Zoe 
Long 
Lowey 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Luja´ n 
Lummis 
Lungren, Daniel 
E. 
Maloney 
Manzullo 
Markey 
Massie 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCarthy (NY) 
Adams 
Andrews 
Baldwin 
Bass (CA) 
Benishek 
Bishop (NY) 
Boswell 
Brady (PA) 
Burgess 
Capuano 
Clarke (NY) 
Coffman (CO) 
Conaway 
Costa 
Costello 
Crawford 
Critz 
Crowley 
Curson (MI) 
DeFazio 
Denham 
DesJarlais 
Dingell 
Dold 
Donnelly (IN) 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Mica 
Michaud 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Miller (NC) 
Moran 
Murphy (CT) 
Murphy (PA) 
Myrick 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Noem 
Nugent 
Nunnelee 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Pascrell 
Payne 
Pearce 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Petri 
Pingree (ME) 
Pitts 
Polis 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rangel 
Rehberg 
Reichert 
Reyes 
Ribble 
Richardson 
Richmond 
Rivera 
Roby 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross (AR) 
Ross (FL) 
Roybal-Allard 
Royce 
Runyan 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
NAYS—106 
Gibson 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (MO) 
Green, Gene 
Griffin (AR) 
Guinta 
Hanna 
Hartzler 
Heck 
Herrera Beutler 
Himes 
Holt 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Hunter 
Israel 
Jackson Lee 
(TX) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kildee 
Kind 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kucinich 
Lance 
Scott (SC) 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, Austin 
Scott, David 
Sensenbrenner 
Serrano 
Sessions 
Sewell 
Sherman 
Shimkus 
Shuler 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Stark 
Stearns 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Sutton 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tierney 
Tonko 
Tsongas 
Turner (NY) 
Turner (OH) 
Upton 
Van Hollen 
Walden 
Walsh (IL) 
Walz (MN) 
Wasserman 
Schultz 
Watt 
Waxman 
Webster 
Welch 
West 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Wilson (FL) 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Yarmuth 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) 
Matheson 
Matsui 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McKinley 
Meehan 
Miller, George 
Moore 
Mulvaney 
Neugebauer 
Olver 
Pallone 
Pastor (AZ) 
Paulsen 
Peters 
Peterson 
Poe (TX) 
Price (GA) 
Quayle 
Rahall 
Reed 
Renacci 
Rigell 
Roe (TN) 
Rooney 
Ackerman Gingrey (GA) Marino 
Akin Gohmert Miller, Gary 
Baca Granger Nunes 
Bachmann Grijalva Paul 
Bartlett Hastings (FL) Pence 
Bass (NH) Heinrich Platts 
Bonner Higgins Rothman (NJ) 
Bono Mack Hinchey Schilling 
Davis (IL) Johnson (IL) Sullivan 
Fortenberry Kline Towns 
Frank (MA) Mack Walberg 
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during 
the vote). There are 2 minutes remaining. 
b 1414 
So the Journal was approved. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
f 
MOTION TO ADJOURN 
Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, I move 
that the House do now adjourn. 
The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it. 
RECORDED VOTE 
Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, I demand 
a recorded vote. 
A recorded vote was ordered. 
The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 3, noes 393, 
not voting 35, as follows: 
[Roll No. 616] 
AYES—3 
Conyers Cravaack Rangel 
NOES—393 
Adams Butterfield Davis (CA) 
Aderholt Calvert DeFazio 
Alexander Camp DeGette 
Altmire Campbell DeLauro 
Amash Canseco DelBene 
Amodei Cantor Denham 
Andrews Capito Dent 
Bachus Capps DesJarlais 
Baldwin Capuano Deutch 
Barber Carnahan Diaz-Balart 
Barletta Carney Dicks 
Barrow Carson (IN) Dingell 
Barton (TX) Carter Doggett 
Bass (CA) Cassidy Dold 
Becerra Castor (FL) Donnelly (IN) 
Benishek Chabot Doyle 
Berg Chaffetz Dreier 
Berkley Chandler Duffy 
Berman Chu Duncan (SC) 
Biggert Cicilline Duncan (TN) 
Bilirakis Clarke (MI) Edwards 
Bishop (GA) Clarke (NY) Ellison 
Bishop (NY) Clay Ellmers 
Bishop (UT) Cleaver Emerson 
Black Clyburn Engel 
Blackburn Coble Eshoo 
Blumenauer Coffman (CO) Farenthold 
Bonamici Cohen Farr 
Boren Cole Fattah 
Boswell Conaway Fincher 
Boustany Connolly (VA) Fitzpatrick 
Brady (PA) Cooper Flake 
Brady (TX) Costa Fleischmann 
Braley (IA) Costello Fleming 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (MO) 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Griffin (AR) 
Griffith (VA) 
Grimm 
Guinta 
Guthrie 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 
Hall 
Hanabusa 
Hanna 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayworth 
Heck 
Hensarling 
Herger 
Herrera Beutler 
Himes 
Hinojosa 
Hirono 
Hochul 
Holden 
Holt 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurt 
Israel 
Issa 
Jackson Lee 
(TX) 
Jenkins 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones 
Jordan 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly 
Kildee 
Kind 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kissell 
Kucinich 
Labrador 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Landry 
Langevin 
Lankford 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Latta 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 
Lewis (CA) 
Lewis (GA) 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Loebsack 
Lofgren, Zoe 
Long 
Lowey 
Lucas 
Marchant 
Markey 
Massie 
Matheson 
Matsui 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McHenry 
McIntyre 
McKeon 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McNerney 
Meehan 
Meeks 
Mica 
Michaud 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Miller (NC) 
Miller, George 
Moore 
Moran 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (CT) 
Murphy (PA) 
Myrick 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neugebauer 
Noem 
Nugent 
Nunnelee 
Olson 
Olver 
Owens 
Palazzo 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Paulsen 
Payne 
Pearce 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters 
Peterson 
Petri 
Pingree (ME) 
Pitts 
Poe (TX) 
Polis 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price (GA) 
Price (NC) 
Quayle 
Quigley 
Rahall 
Reed 
Rehberg 
Reichert 
Renacci 
Reyes 
Ribble 
Richardson 
Richmond 
Rigell 
Rivera 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Ryan (WI) 
Sa´nchez, Linda 
T. 
Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Scalise 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schmidt 
Schock 
Schrader 
Schwartz 
Schweikert 
Scott (SC) 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, Austin 
Scott, David 
Sensenbrenner 
Serrano 
Sessions 
Sewell 
Sherman 
Shimkus 
Shuler 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Smith (WA) 
Southerland 
Speier 
Stark 
Stearns 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Sutton 
Terry 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tierney 
Tipton 
Tonko 
Tsongas 
Turner (NY) 
Turner (OH) 
Upton 
Van Hollen 
Vela´ zquez 
Visclosky 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walsh (IL) 
Walz (MN) 
Wasserman 
Schultz 
Watt 
Waxman 
Webster 
Welch 
West 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Wilson (FL) 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Woodall 
Woolsey 
Yarmuth 
Yoder 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) 
Duffy 
Ellison 
Landry 
Latham 
Sa´nchez, Linda 
T. 
Brooks 
Broun (GA) 
Courtney 
Crawford 
Flores 
Forbes NOT VOTING—35 
Eshoo Latta Sarbanes Brown (FL) Crenshaw Foxx Ackerman Bass (NH) Fortenberry 
Farenthold Lee (CA) Schakowsky Buchanan Crowley Frank (MA) Akin Bilbray Gingrey (GA) 
Fitzpatrick Lewis (GA) Schock Bucshon Cuellar Franks (AZ) Austria Bonner Gohmert 
Foxx LoBiondo Southerland Buerkle Culberson Frelinghuysen Baca Bono Mack Grijalva 
Gardner Lynch Terry Burgess Cummings Fudge Bachmann Critz Hastings (FL) 
Garrett Marchant Thompson (CA) Burton (IN) Curson (MI) Gallegly Bartlett Davis (IL) Heinrich 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6609 

Higgins Miller, Gary Rothman (NJ) 
Hinchey Neal Schilling 
Johnson (IL) Nunes Sullivan 
Kline Paul 

Towns 
Mack Pence 

Waters 
Marino Platts 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (during 
the vote). There are 2 minutes remaining. 


b 1431 

Mr. MCINTYRE changed his vote 
from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 

So the motion to adjourn was rejected. 


The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

Mr. PLATTS. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall Nos. 
614, 615, and 616, I missed the votes due to 
stopping to assist at an automobile accident 
scene. Had I been present, I would have 
voted ‘‘aye’’ on rollcall No. 614, ‘‘aye’’ on roll-
call No. 615, and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 616. 

f 

HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW 

Mr. MCHENRY. I ask unanimous consent 
that when the House adjourns 
today, it adjourn to meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
FARENTHOLD). Is there objection to the 
request of the gentleman from North 
Carolina? 

There was no objection. 

f 

FISCAL CLIFF 

(Mr. FLEMING asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. FLEMING. For 2 years, President 
Obama and Democrats have clamored 
for a so-called ‘‘balanced approach’’ to 
fix the budget deficit by raising taxes 
in exchange for entitlement reform. We 
must reform entitlements. We know 
that, without reform, Medicare becomes 
insolvent in just 10 years. Then 
there’s welfare. For the first year ever, 
we spent over $1 trillion on welfare, 
and food stamp usage is up now to 15 
percent of the population. All of this is 
creating annual trillion-dollar deficits, 
which, along with anemic economic 
growth and stubbornly high unemployment, 
means 23 million Americans still 
have no jobs. 

Now some Republicans say they’d 
consider a balanced approach, but how 
much revenue is gathered from the tax 
increases proposed by Democrats? 
About $80 billion a year. That’s barely 
enough to run Washington for 8 days. 

Mr. Speaker, we are less than 4 weeks 
from falling off the fiscal cliff. It’s 
time for Democrats to come to the 
table with something more than job-
killing taxes. If they have serious ideas 
for entitlement reform, the American 
people deserve to hear them. Unfortunately, 
Mr. Speaker, the reason we 
haven’t heard Democrat ideas for entitlement 
reform may be because they 
have no plans to cut or to reform entitlement 
spending at all. This is just an


other game from their playbook—raise 
taxes and increase spending, as always. 

f 

CHRISTMAS CARDS AND HOLIDAY 
CARDS FOR OUR TROOPS 

(Mr. POE of Texas asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on 
Christmas Day, most of us will wake 
up with our families, the smell of Turkey 
in the oven, and homemade apple 
pie, but on the other side of the world, 
there are men and women who will 
wake up in the middle of the desert 
who are representing and protecting 
America’s liberty. Those are our great 
American warriors. 

In 2005, I went to see our troops in 
Iraq during the Christmas season. Before 
I left, I asked my staff to get local 
schoolkids to make some handmade 
Christmas cards that I could give the 
troops, and I took about 5,000 Christmas 
cards to our troops in Iraq and in 
Kosovo. Every year since then, Mr. 
Speaker, kids in southeast Texas have 
been making Christmas cards and holiday 
cards for our troops in Afghanistan 
and Iraq and in other parts of the 
world. 

I want you to know that schoolchildren 
in southeast Texas made 69,000 
handmade Christmas cards for our 
troops in Afghanistan and Iraq and in 
other parts of the world that will be 
taken to them this Christmas. I want 
to thank all of those numerous schools, 
teachers, and chambers of commerce in 
southeast Texas. 

God bless every one of you for helping 
our men and women overseas have 
a better connection with our families 
and our young people in this country 
and for letting them know that Texans 
are thinking of them. 

And that’s just the way it is. 

Hargrave High School JROTC; Humble 
ISD; Timbers Elementary; Douglass Learning 
Academy; KARW; Norma’s Bookkeeping 
and Tax Service; Haude Elementary; Salyers 
Elementary; Crockett Elementary; Girl 
Scout Troop 21157; Tarkington Primary 
School; Cadette Girl Scout Troop; Goose 
Creek CISD; Brownie Girl Scout Troop 16253; 
Spring, 4-H, Girl Scout Troop 26184; Girl 
Scout Troop 26015; Marauder Composite 
Squadron; Holy Trinity Episcopal School; Hi 
Neighbors Group; Ronald Reagan Republican 
Women; Village Learning & Achievement 
Center; McAdams Associates Real Estate. 

Schochler Elementary; Rikki Wheeler and 
the Baytown Chamber of Commerce; Operation 
Independence; Ross Sterling High 
School; Horace Mann Middle School; Alamo 
Elementary; San Jacinto Methodist Hospital; 
Kingwood Middle School; Woodland 
Hills Elementary; Sterling Middle School; 
Timberwood Middle School; Beaumont Independent 
School District; Lamar University; 
Boy Scouts; Deerbrook Baptist Church; Port 
Neches Elementary; Chambers County Pilot 
Club; Neverland Rec. Center; Westbrook 
High School; Marshall Middle School; St. 
Thomas Episcopal Church, Beaumont, TX. 

f 

b 1440 

ADDRESSING THE FISCAL CLIFF 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan


uary 5, 2011, the gentleman from California 
(Mr. GARAMENDI) is recognized 
for 60 minutes as the designee of the 
minority leader. 

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker and 
colleagues and the general public, 
there has been a lot of discussion in the 
last several days about what to do with 
the fiscal cliff. Is it a cliff? Is it not a 
cliff? Is it a slope? Is it the end of 
America as we know it, or whatever. 
But in this debate, there are a few 
things that are absolutely critical—tax 
policy, the President has laid it out 
very, very clearly, as did the election. 
We’re going to do tax reform, yes. And 
it’s time for those at the upper end of 
this wealthy country to pay their fair 
share. So the President has made it 
very clear: we’re going to raise the 
rates on those making over $250,000 a 
year. And by the way, we ought to be 
very clear understanding what that 
means. That means 100 percent of 
Americans get a tax break on the first 
$250,000 of income. Over that, yes, 
they’ll pay a higher rate, marginal 
rate, for that over the top. 

Hey, but what I really want to talk 
about today with my colleagues who 
will be joining me in the next few minutes 
is another part of this debate, and 
that is on the reductions in Federal expenditures. 
What’s the best way to do 
it? How are we going to reduce Federal 
expenditures? There are those that say 
take on the entitlements. Make the 
seniors pay more. End Medicare as we 
know it. Turn it into a voucher program. 
Or maybe turn it into a premium 
support program which, as a former insurance 
commissioner, I know exactly 
what that means. That means if you’re 
over 65, hey, you’re going to get to go 
buy insurance from the rapacious 
health insurance companies. Good 
luck. Premium support, just another 
way to end Medicare as we know it. 
Voucher programs, another way to end 
Medicare as we know it. 

In the last election, this was a central 
part of the debate here in America. 
And it was clear: no way, no how are 
we going that way. There are others 
who proposed, well, why don’t we just 
raise the age to 67? Interesting, very 
interesting proposal. Well, it will save 
Medicare a little bit of money, but 
what does it do to those people who are 
65 to 67 years of age? It denies them the 
opportunity to get affordable health insurance 
in the Medicare program and 
simply throws those people off to the 
wolves, again, to the rapacious health 
insurance companies. And by the way, 
those are exactly the people that the 
health insurance companies don’t 
want. They’re the people who have 
higher expenditures. They’re the ones 
who are beginning to get health issues, 
so the health insurance companies 
don’t want them. How are they going 
to get insurance? They’re going to get 
insurance at a very high cost, if at all. 

And, oh, by the way, there are those 
that want to do away with the Affordable 
Health Care Act. In the Affordable 
Health Care Act, there’s this thing 


H6610 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

called the Patients’ Bill of Rights. The 
Patients’ Bill of Rights guarantees 
that insurance companies cannot deny 
you based upon a preexisting condition. 
However, they can charge differential 
rates based upon age. So that notion of 
somehow saving Medicare by keeping 
people from getting Medicare is the 
back way to go, and it is a nonstarter, 
at least with me and I think many of 
my colleagues. 

There are things that can be done in 
Medicare, and we’re going to talk 
about those things that we can do here 
with our colleagues today. We also 
want to pick up the issue of Social Security. 
Let’s be very clear: the deficit 
situation faced by the United States is 
not a Social Security problem. It is not 
a Social Security problem. Social Security 
is stand-alone. It is not part of 
the American deficit. It’s an issue that 
over the years has come back before 
the American public. The Congresses in 
the past have dealt with it, extended 
the viability of Social Security for 
years and years, and this Congress does 
not need to deal with this problem this 
year or even next year in the 113th 
Congress. Down the road it must be 
dealt with—and there are numerous 
ways it can be—but to bring Social Security 
into the deficit debate is only to 
cloud this debate and to make it far 
more difficult for us to find a solution. 

Now, my Democratic colleagues and I 
and the President have made it very 
clear we understand the necessity of 
solving this problem and we’re willing 
to compromise. The President has put 
on the table a very complete, detailed 
program about how we can deal with 
the deficit both in the short term and 
in the years ahead. And we need to proceed 
with that. Unfortunately, it was 
just simply dismissed and a new—well, 
not a new—actually a rebaked, redone, 
rehashed proposal was put on the table 
by our Republican colleagues yesterday, 
one that really doesn’t move us 
toward a compromise. We need to get 
there. We need to get a compromise 
under way. So let’s see if we can figure 
out how to do it. 

I see several of my colleagues here. 
I’m not sure which one was first up, 
but it looks like it might be Florida. 

Ms. BROWN of Florida. I’m CORRINE 
BROWN from Florida, and I’m from the 
home of Claude Pepper. He was a House 
Member and a Senator, but he was Mr. 
Social Security. He was here during 
the time of Ronald Reagan, and he 
made sure that Social Security, which 
was enacted under the Democrats, and 
I will never forget, Newt Gingrich said 
that he wanted it to ‘‘wither on the 
vine.’’ That’s been their philosophy. 

Now, I feel that Medicaid, Medicare, 
and Social Security is the difference 
between us and many of the Third 
World countries. In fact, it has been 
the bedrock of American politics as far 
as helping to raise the standards. 

You know, many of my colleagues 
often talk about the Bible. Well, the 
Bible says—I’ve never heard them say 
let’s help the rich—the Bible always 

talks about the poor and what we need 
to do to help raise the standards. 
That’s what we’re supposed to be doing 
in the people’s House. During the campaign, 
they constantly confused the 
American people, talking about the 
$715 billion that was in both proposals 
that was savings, that we put back into 
the system that helped people that 
were receiving their prescription drugs. 
We were helping to lower the cost. In 
fact, we were plugging the doughnut 
hole. So that argument is over. And 
the fact is that it will be 434–1. I will 
never vote to do anything with Social 
Security as we speak. 

And when you talk about Medicaid 
and Medicare, many of those people are 
in nursing homes that cannot speak for 
themselves. They only have us as their 
voices. And as we negotiate and discuss, 
let’s look at one group, African 
American men. Most of them don’t live 
long enough to benefit, and everything 
is not equal. When we look at jobs and 
professions, many of you have these 
nice cushiony jobs, and so we don’t 
even have to worry about raising the 
age. But when we look at people who 
actually work for a living, whether 
we’re talking about bridges or whether 
we’re talking about driving trains or 
trucks, you want to raise the limit for 
them? So there are many issues that 
need to be discussed as we move forward. 


But when President Clinton was in 
office, he left this country in the black. 
The people have weighed in. They’ve 
indicated that we want to move forward, 
put people to work; but we want 
to do it through a fair method of doing 
it, and that is not cutting programs 
that impact the working poor in this 
country. 

Mr. GARAMENDI. Well, you’re absolutely 
correct about that. The proposal 
to cut Medicare benefits is a nonstarter. 
There are things that can be 
done in Medicare to reduce the cost, 
and much has already been done. 

I would like to ask my colleague 
from the great State of Michigan to 
join us. Mr. CURSON is a new Member of 
Congress, came in a special election 
about a month ago. Welcome. We are 
delighted to have you join us. 

Mr. CURSON of Michigan. Thank 
you, and I agree wholeheartedly with 
what’s been said so far, and what I 
really want to say is Medicare is run 
more efficiently than nearly any insurance 
company in the world. 

b 1450 
They devote less than 2 percent of its 
funding to administrative expenses, 
and you compare that to a private insurance 
company that costs up to 40 
percent of premiums for individuals 
and small group plans for administration 
and to pay their executives six-
and seven-figure salaries to do the 
same thing that’s administrated by 
Medicare officials. 
Also, the attempt to move Medicare 
eligibility from 65 to 67 sounds like an 
easy fix. Well, not only, as was spoken 

earlier, the recipients, those people 
that are 64, 65, 66, going into that category 
are people that possibly are already 
struggling, lost their jobs, they 
need that health care, they have a preexisting 
condition, and now their very 
life is threatened having to wait that 
much longer. 

We all look to take care of small 
business and private insurance funds, 
such as VEBAs and those types of institutions 
that money is forecast to pay 
for various health care, and you 
stretch out 2 more years of their coverage, 
small business now has to pay 
higher premiums to cover those employees 
that last those 2 more years. 
And they either have to make a choice: 
They reduce what they give in coverage 
or they eliminate it altogether, 
or they shift those premium costs to 
the worker. It’s happened over and over 
and over again, and we need to avoid 
that in this coming legislation. 

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. CURSON, 
thank you so very much for your 
thoughtful discussion of the age issue— 
it’s a profoundly important one—and 
also bringing up the issue of what is 
the cost of Medicare administration 
compared to the private health insurance 
companies. You’re quite correct. 
Medicare is a very efficiently run program, 
very efficient in collecting the 
money and paying the bills, far more 
than you would ever find in the private 
health insurance sector, perhaps by a 
factor of 4—3, 4, maybe even 5 in some 
cases. Also, Medicare has had an extraordinary 
run of keeping the costs 
down. 

I’d like now to call upon Mr. JOE 
COURTNEY of Rhode Island—Connecticut. 
I’ve made two mistakes today 
about my colleagues’ locale. 

JOE, it’s yours. 

Mr. COURTNEY. Thank you, Congressman 
GARAMENDI. And I realize 
there’s congressional districts in California 
that are probably bigger than 
Rhode Island and Connecticut combined, 
so I won’t hold it against you 
too hard. 

Thank you for taking time on the 
floor today to spend some time talking 
about Social Security, Medicare, and 
Medicaid. This really is the moment of 
truth right now. 

Yesterday, the Republican leadership 
came out with their package in terms 
of trying to deal with the so-called fiscal 
cliff, and even though, for months, 
they have not really fleshed out with 
great detail where they wanted to see 
savings, yesterday they did. They came 
out with a proposal which talked about 
raising the eligibility age for Medicare 
from 65 to 67. 

They talked about recalculating the 
cost-of-living-adjustment for seniors 
who are on Social Security. It’s the so-
called chained CPI, which would lower 
the year-in and year-out increase for 
people on Social Security in terms of 
keeping up with the cost of living. 

These proposals really need a full, 
vigorous debate before the American 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6611 

people before we move in that direction, 
which I would argue, and certainly 
you and others here this afternoon, 
would be the wrong direction for 
middle class and working family Americans. 


You know, in terms of Medicare, I 
think it’s really important, historically, 
to review how Medicare came 
into existence. 

In 1965, when it was signed into law 
by President Lyndon Johnson on the 
porch of Harry Truman’s house in Independence, 
Missouri, only half of America’s 
seniors had any insurance whatsoever. 
Because of age, because of preexisting 
condition, because the insurance 
company, frankly, just viewed 
them as too high a risk, and because of 
cost, only half of America’s seniors had 
any insurance whatsoever. Life expectancy 
in America in 1965 was 70 years 
old. 

With that stroke of a pen by Lyndon 
Johnson, the genius of Medicare was 
created, which created a pool for people 
above the age of 65 and people on 
disability, a pool which could spread 
risk out and make the challenge of covering 
people at that age much more 
manageable. And for the following 47, 
48 years, we have had a system which 
now has brought life expectancy for 
Americans up to age 78. In other words, 
having people in a situation where they 
can access needed medical care, in fact, 
lengthened people’s lives and, in some 
instances, actually added to the economy 
because some people even continued 
to work, to a degree, who are on 
Medicare. 

It has really accomplished its mission 
which was visualized the day that 
President Johnson signed it into law. 
It does face challenges. There’s no 
question that demographics, with the 
baby boom coming on the horizon, is 
going to increase the number of people 
in the program, but the way you solve 
that problem is just make it smarter 
and more efficient. 

When President Obama signed the Affordable 
Care Act in March of 2010, last 
year there were some really solid, 
smart changes that were made to the 
Medicare system to make sure that the 
cost per patient would be moderated, 
but not that it would cut benefits or 
kick people off the program, which is 
what the Republicans are proposing to 
do, saying people who are 65 and 66 
would no longer be eligible under their 
proposal. 

This chart which I brought along 
with me this afternoon is based on 
Standard & Poor’s Dow Jones Index, 
which tracks the Medicare program 
every single month in terms of per capita 
spending, and it shows, again, back 
as recently as 2005, 2006, per capita expenditure 
for Medicare was actually 
quite high. It was over 7 percent per 
patient, and that, obviously, is an 
unsustainable level under almost really 
any circumstance, but over time it 
moderated. 

And then this red line shows the day 
that President Obama signed the Af


fordable Care Act, which put a number 
of really intelligent changes into Medicare, 
promoting preventive care services, 
prescription drug coverage, making 
sure people will get their 
colonoscopies and their cancer 
screenings, and also saying to hospitals, 
hey, if people show up at your 
emergency room 30 days after you just 
treated them, we’re going to penalize 
you. You’ve got to do a better job of 
monitoring care in the community. 
And that change, by itself, is already 
promoting a lot more collaboration on 
a much more cost-effective, better way 
for people. 

Who wants to be in an emergency 
room? You want to be home with your 
care being provided, not sitting, again, 
in a hospital room waiting for life-or-
death treatment. 

So since that date, when President 
Obama signed it into law, the per capita 
growth rate under Medicare is now 
down to its lowest level in the history 
of program—2 percent per capita 
growth. And the fact of the matter is 
we can do more. We can actually build 
on that success of the Affordable Care 
Act. 

Anybody watch ‘‘60 Minutes’’ on Sunday? 
They had a story about a hospital 
system which basically was threatening 
to fire doctors if they didn’t 
admit patients according to certain 
quotas because they’re, again, chasing 
that fee-for-service incentive that is in 
old Medicare. I mean, those are the 
kinds of, in that case, fraud, but in 
other instances, you know, changing 
that fee-for-service incentive can actually 
bring this number down even much 
more dramatically, and we don’t have 
to touch a hair on the head of any 
Medicare-eligible senior in America for 
decades to come if we make those 
smart changes. 

So the fact of the matter is we’re seeing 
great progress just, again, in the 
last 2 years, 21/2 years. And the fact is 
that there are very good ideas about 
ways of making the system much more 
efficient. 

And I will tell you, and I know my 
Members that are here on the floor will 
agree with this. When you go and visit 
a hospital or when you go and visit 
medical groups, the changes in electronic 
records, the changes in terms of 
incentivizing preventive care have been 
embraced by the medical community. 
They actually understand how wasteful 
the high volume fee-for-service system 
is in terms of just not only taxpayers, 
but also the resources that are precious 
and should be really allocated to all 
Americans, not just those who have 
good insurance that can reimburse for 
those procedures. 

So the fact of the matter is we can do 
far better than kicking 65- and 66-year-
olds out of the system as a way of protecting 
Medicare solvency, and that 
should be the direction that we go with 
these discussions over the financial future 
of the public finances of this government. 


Again, I want to thank Mr. 
GARAMENDI for organizing this discus


sion here today because it’s important 
to get these facts out. 

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. COURTNEY of 
the great State of Connecticut, thank 
you very much for bringing this information 
to us. 

Your chart is a dramatic one, when 
you consider the period of time and the 
extraordinary reduction in the inflation 
rate in Medicare. If you had another 
line on that showing the general 
inflation in health care for the general 
population, it would actually be above 
Medicare, that entire slope all the way 
down. 

b 1500 
And it’s significantly above it. So 
what’s happened—in part, I think, 
you’re correct; there may be other 
forces involved here, but certainly you 
can see the effect of the Affordable 
Health Care Act. And you identified 
very well some of the critical cost savings 
that are in that. And it’s well 
worth repeating it, which I will do with 
you. And we ought to go back so the 
public comes to understand what was 
in the Affordable Health Care Act. 
For those over 65 that are in Medicare, 
those changes are critically important. 
First of all, stay healthy. If 
you want to save money on hospitals 
and doctors, stay healthy. And so you 
have an annual wellness visit. I think 
something like 50, 60 million Americans 
have been able to take advantage 
of that free annual visit. You’ve got 
high blood pressure? Well, let’s take 
some blood pressure medicine. You’re 
headed for diabetes? Here’s a dietary 
program or exercise program. We can 
deal with those. You keep people out of 
the hospitals. The hospital infection 
rate, the other one you talked about, 
very powerful. I hear from hospitals in 
my district, and I’m sure my colleagues 
do also. They don’t want that 
readmission because that comes right 
out of the hospital’s pocket. And also 
there’s a penalty. 
So there are many, many issues here 
that are involved in the Affordable 
Health Care Act that have caused that 
slope downward to continue. Enormous 
savings to Medicare. Because when you 
look at the Medicare issue, it’s a projection 
for 10 years. And the projected 
rate 2 years ago was 5, 6 percent. And 
where are you, down in the 2 percent 
range now? Those are multibillion dollars 
a year the American public will 
not have to pay in taxes and increases 
in expenditures. So these things begin 
to add up. But there are many, many 
more savings. 
I don’t want to dominate all this 
time. I see that other of our colleagues 
have come and joined us. 
PETER WELCH from Vermont. 
Mr. WELCH. Thank you. This is such 
an important issue about the future. 
We can get a deficit deal. The President 
is committed to doing it. It’s got 
to be balanced. Balanced means there’s 
got to be revenues. Our taxes, especially 
from the high-income, are at historic 
lows. We have to have health care 


H6612 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

reform, and that can get the cost of 
health care down, bring that rate of 
growth of spending down. 

In Vermont, that’s what we’re trying 
to do. We’re a single-payer State. We’re 
trying to move towards a single-payer. 
And the reason is that it’s the best way 
to get our arms around health care so 
you can continue the access. And we 
know that there are reforms that we 
can make in Medicare. Just for example, 
if we purchase drugs wholesale, 
why do we pay retail? In the VA and in 
Medicaid, the government is a big purchaser 
and it negotiates price discounts 
with the pharmaceutical companies 
that are quite eager to sell their 
prescription drugs to Medicare. 

Mr. GARAMENDI. If I might interrupt 
you for a moment. Under the current 
law, the U.S. Government Medicare 
program, it is prevented by law. 

Mr. WELCH. It’s illegal to be a smart 
shopper. That’s exactly right. You 
can’t make that up. It’s illegal. It 
would be like telling you, if you went 
into CVS to buy some aspirin, and you 
knew you were going to use them for a 
year—you had a family, if you wanted 
to buy the bottle that had 100 and the 
per unit price is one-third of what it is 
if you’re going to buy the bottle of 20, 
it would be illegal for CVS to be able to 
sell it to you at a lower price per unit. 
That’s what we have in Medicare. 

Everybody understands you’ve got to 
pay for what you’re going to get. But 
the fundamental debate here—and this 
is what was reflected in the Ryan budget 
with the voucher plan—is: are we 
going to try to address what are obvious 
failures in the system of the delivery 
of health care, like not allowing for 
prescription drug price negotiation? 
That would save $165 billion, and it 
wouldn’t cut a single benefit. Or, are 
we going to go allow that system that 
makes no sense continue and instead 
take $165 billion worth of benefits out 
of Medicare so that if you go to the 
doctor, they may treat you for a broken 
wrist but not a broken forearm. It 
doesn’t make sense. And it certainly 
doesn’t make sense to start talking 
about benefit cuts before you have the 
system reform and can get savings that 
are literally right on the table in front 
of you. 

So we can deal with this debt situation 
that we have in this country. It is 
serious. Democrats understand that. 
The President understands it. It’s a serious 
problem. It’s a solvable problem. 
But to solve it we have to have a significant 
contribution from revenues. 
The top 2 percent can afford have their 
taxes go up to the Clinton year rates. 
That’s number one. And number two, 
we can have reforms in health care 
that would benefit not just Medicare 
sustainability but health care expenses, 
whether you get your health 
care at work through your employer or 
whether you’re a private-pay person. 

The nice part of this is that we are 
all in it together. Thank you for doing 
this. We can solve this problem. And 
let’s do it. 

Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. WELCH, we 
will do it. 

MR. COURTNEY from Connecticut has 
some ideas about other things that we 
can do. 

Mr. COURTNEY. Again, I think it’s 
important—and you touched on this, 
JOHN—when the Affordable Care Act 
was passed in March of 2010, the Congressional 
Budget Office was projecting 
out some savings because of the ACA. 
But they were figuring about 4 percent 
per capita growth. Again, as you pointed 
out, this chart now shows we’re 
down to 2 percent. So they have actually 
been revising their estimates over 
the last 2 years. And the net savings, 
the recalculation just in the last 2 
years has been hundreds of billions of 
dollars of lower expenditure than they 
had first thought was going to be the 
case. 

When you compare that magnitude of 
savings with, for example, raising the 
eligibility age to 67, they’re dwarfed. It 
is really just a small portion of what 
efficiencies in the system are capable 
of producing. And the fact of the matter 
is that raising the eligibility age, 
there’s no free lunch. The fact is that 
even though these are people that will 
be challenged in the private insurance 
market, 65 and 66 are still the healthiest 
population within the Medicare 
pool. So the ones who remain in Medicare, 
their part B premiums are going 
to go up. And that’s not just me saying 
it. It’s the Kaiser Family Foundation, 
which analyzed the impact of raising 
the age to 67. You’re going to raise premiums. 
You’re going to, obviously, 
leave people in a horrible situation in 
terms of trying to find any insurance. 
In the private market, which you regulated, 
you know that is the roughest 
area of older working-age individuals. 
And the net effect in terms of overall 
health care costs in terms of the system 
is zero. In fact, there’s some that 
would argue that it would actually add 
cost to the system. 

Mr. GARAMENDI. I think it really 
would add cost. We discussed earlier 
that the Affordable Health Care Act 
has a very powerful cost-saving mechanism 
called Staying Healthy. And that 
is the prevention programs. If you 
move that age from 65 to 67, you’re 
going to have a significant population 
of seniors who will not have access to 
that preventative medicine program. 
It’s not going to be there for them. So 
the potential for them to develop long-
term, debilitating diseases increases. 
And when they get to Medicare, they 
will be much more expensive, to say 
nothing of what happens to them during 
that 2-year period when they can’t 
get to Medicare. 

You said something earlier on and 
I’m going to go back to this. You 
talked about what happened before 
Medicare—the 50 percent of the population 
of seniors without medical insurance, 
the poverty rate. When you 
said that, my mind flashed back to 
when I was a young man in the 1950s— 
actually, not even a teenager—my dad 

took me to the county hospital. We 
were ranchers out in the boondocks of 
California, and nobody had insurance 
who was in their senior years. The 
county hospital sticks in my mind as 
the reason for Medicare. It was beyond 
horrible. There was just a row of beds, 
the most horrible odor in that ward— 
people dying. It was so compelling. 

And today, there are issues out there. 
But we have seen the population of seniors 
healthy, living longer—20 years 
longer than they were just 45 years 
ago—50 years ago now. This is so important 
to seniors. And it is the Democratic 
Party that has stood for Medicare 
all of these decades. And we’re not 
going to let it go. We’re not going to 
let Medicare go. It is a foundation of 
our humanity and our compassion as 
Americans for all because all of us 
want to live long enough to get into 
Medicare. 

Reforms are possible. We’ve talked 
about several of them here today. I 
know that our colleague from Michigan 
spoke earlier. If you’d like to come 
back in and talk about this, we’d welcome 
you. We’ll go back here for a little 
longer. 

Mr. CURSON. 

b 1510 
Mr. CURSON of Michigan. Well, 
again, as we talked earlier, it seems to 
so many in the public that moving that 
age—particularly young Americans— 
that just going from 65 to 67 doesn’t 
mean a lot; but if you look at the statistics 
of age in this country, that’s the 
baby boomer generation. That’s the 
greatest population this country has 
ever had is right in that area. I’m part 
of that, I’m 64. So many of my friends 
cannot wait 2 more years for health 
care. They can’t afford the out-of-pocket. 
Some have preexisting conditions. 
Without question, if we move this, it 
will be a sentence of death for many, 
many Americans who won’t be able to 
get the health care that they need. 
As I went through and campaigned— 
I come from a district that was 60 percent 
Republican—it didn’t matter what 
forum I was in, what group I talked to. 
There was no great calling to change 
Medicare, to take benefits away, to 
raise the age. There was a lot of calling 
to take the corruption out of Medicare, 
to take the phony doctors and the 
phony bills and other systems. This is 
what we talked about: not having the 
ability to negotiate prescription drugs; 
millions and millions and millions and 
millions of dollars just to make that 
part of the system competitive. We 
can’t do that by law; that’s ridiculous. 
Those are things that easily we could 
go in, we could do, and we could make 
the system much better without touching 
a single benefit for any American. 
Mr. COURTNEY. You’re mentioning 
the fact that there may be some young 
folks out there who might be of the belief 
that this is really not a big deal to 
bump that age up 2 years. The fact of 
the matter is that some of the folks 
who, again, analyze the impact of raising 
the eligibility age say that it would 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6613 

spill over to young Americans, and 
here’s how: 

There are a lot of private employers 
that have health insurance plans that 
when people hit retirement age, 65—or 
their hoped-for retirement age—they 
are able to, again, move into Medicare. 
They come off their employment-based 
plan, maybe get some supplemental 
coverage as part of their retirement 
package. But the fact of the matter is 
that helps move people out of the 
workforce at an appropriate age of 65 
and opens up jobs for younger Americans. 
To the extent that you now are 
going to say that Medicare won’t be 
there until age 67, it, frankly, is going 
to force a lot more people to stay in 
the workforce longer than I think really 
most people believe would be the 
case today. So, in fact, it would create 
that job lock that would prevent, 
again, the workforce to continue to refresh 
itself with young Americans. 

So the fact is that having a solid retirement 
health insurance plan like 
Medicare helps young Americans because 
it, again, allows the workforce to 
continue to circulate people, older 
Americans out and younger Americans 
in. That’s why, again, the folks who 
had the genius to have the strength to 
pass Medicare in 1965, they solved a lot 
of problems in the U.S. economy, in the 

U.S. society that really extended far 
beyond just the patients who that program 
covers. 
Mr. GARAMENDI. Well, there are 
certainly a series of things that we 
know we can do to reduce the cost of 
Medicare. Some of those are already in 
place. They’ve been brought forward by 
the Affordable Care Act. Others are yet 
to be done. The prescription drug issue 
is out there, enormous savings, $160 billion 
or $150 billion right there over a 
10-year period. 

The fraud in the system, some of that 
was dealt with with the Affordable 
Care Act, but there’s much more that 
can be done. There are fraudulent billings 
for durable medical equipment as 
well as other kinds of services that are 
provided. Those need to be addressed. 
The systems that are being put in 
place, that is, moving away from fee-
for-service, will significantly address 
that. 

In the area of hospitalization, again, 
there are programs that are viable, 
that are not yet implemented, that are 
not part of the savings that have already 
been calculated, for example, 
programs on the dual eligibles. The 
dual eligibles are those people that do 
not have sufficient income, but are already 
quite ill that may be 20 years of 
age, and they’re getting Medicaid as 
well as Medicare. There are savings 
that can be found in the way in which 
we organize that. 

For those seniors that are on Medicare, 
an organized health care system 
that keeps them healthy, that is, taking 
the prevention program a step further, 
or two or three steps further, so 
that there is a continuity of care and 
there is a follow-up, maybe a social 

worker or simply somebody on the 
phone saying how are you doing; are 
you taking your medicine; are you able 
to get the food that you need so that 
people can stay healthy. A healthy 
population significantly reduces cost. 

The use of the Affordable Care Act— 
not just for Medicare, but for the total 
cost of the system—has a very, very 
powerful cost reduction in it; and it’s 
called ‘‘insurance.’’ Forty million 
Americans are going to be insured. 
That means that those people are less 
likely, far less likely to go to the emergency 
room to get their care. 

The Affordable Care Act also provides 
for clinics. Where a private doctor 
may not be available, a clinic 
would be available. So all of these 
things provide more care to people and, 
in doing so, reduce the cost of the extraordinarily 
expensive care that 
comes from when people don’t get continuing 
services of health care. 

So Medicare is a huge issue before all 
of us. On the Democratic side, we’re 
saying, yes, there are savings available 
in Medicare, we should take advantage 
of those, but we’re not going to cut 
benefits. And we’re not going to privatize 
Medicare or end Medicare as we 
know it. There are other things that we 
can do, we’re willing to do it; let’s compromise 
on those things that make 
sense without destroying the Medicare 
program. 

Not on our watch are we going to see 
the benefit package reduced in such a 
way as to harm seniors—no way. And 
no way are we going to end Medicare as 
we know it. We’ll draw a line in the 
sand; we’ll save the money; we’ll put 
that cost curve even on a better trajectory, 
and that is a very, very formidable 
and positive trajectory there. 

Let’s spend just a moment of time, as 
we come towards the end of our time, 
on Social Security, which many people—
well, not on the Democratic side, 
but let’s talk about Social Security 
and should it be on the cutting table 
here, should it be part of the deficit reduction. 


Mr. COURTNEY. 

Mr. COURTNEY. Well, again, what’s 
remarkable—and I know both of you 
are well aware of this—is that Social 
Security, over the last 3 or 4 years, 2 
out of those last 4 years there was no 
COLA; there was zero percent increase 
for seniors on Social Security. Again, 
as we all know, that’s a formula that’s 
tied to the Labor Department basket of 
goods that they spill out every year 
since the 1970s when COLA was first enacted, 
and where the economy at that 
point produced that result. 

Now, the last 2 years there have been 
moderate increases through the COLA 
formula; but, again, Republicans want 
to go deeper. They want to come out 
with a new cost-of-living adjustment 
formula called the ‘‘chained CPI,’’ 
which would depress the existing COLA 
formula that already ended up with a 
zero percent 2 out of the last 4 years 
and make that even lower for seniors. 

As I think many of you know, you go 
to a senior center and you talk about, 

how come we didn’t get a COLA this 
year or how come the COLA is so 
small, and you explain to them how the 
formula works. Well, the fact of the 
matter is that Labor Department formula 
that we use today uses a lot of 
goods and services that seniors don’t 
buy. They don’t buy flat screen TVs, 
they don’t buy laptop computers, 
where prices have come down because 
of competition in those areas. They 
concentrate their spending on food and 
fuel and prescription drugs, which, if 
you look at just that basket of goods, 
the COLA would be higher than the existing 
formula, certainly not lower. 

So for the Republicans to come out 
with a proposal that says we should depress 
the COLA formula that we have 
today that, again, really doesn’t match 
up with the profile of what a senior 
goes out to the supermarket and buys 
one week to the next, and is really 
going backwards in terms of really the 
economic security of people over age 
65. 

I know the gentleman from Michigan 
would like to share his thoughts. 

Mr. CURSON of Michigan. Well, I 
think the great majority of our citizens 
don’t understand that Social Security 
is not funded by tax dollars. The 
confusion lies because over the years 
the contributions made by workers to 
fund Social Security created a surplus. 
With that surplus, they loaned that 
surplus to other government-funded 
projects, and they’re being paid back 
with government money. That government 
money every year is now playing 
into the repayment. That’s why people 
think that you can cut Social Security 
to take the tax dollars out. 

b 1520 
Well, if that was a private insurance 
company that had a surplus and loaned 
that surplus to another company, that 
first company would expect the second 
company to pay it back. So that cannot 
be part of this equation. Social Security 
and the Federal money that 
goes into Social Security cannot be 
part of the equation in this fiscal cliff 
debate. 
Now, certainly with the expectancy 
of Social Security only surviving until 
2038, before it has reduced benefits, in 
the very near future, this great Hall 
has to discuss how to fix that; and all 
the great minds in this Hall, I’m sure, 
can. But it does not need to be a part 
of this debate. This should not be a 
part of whatever legislation we settle 
in this last lame-duck session of this 
Congress. 
Mr. GARAMENDI. Well, you are certainly 
well stating my position and I 
believe the position of our colleagues 
and I believe of the President. Social 
Security is not part of the current deficit 
problem. It is an issue. We’ll have 
to deal with it at any time between 
now and the next 7, 8 years. And we 
can. It’s been done before. 
At least three times in my memory, 
Social Security has been adjusted. One 
was discussed earlier with the issue of 


H6614 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

the COLA. That’s been adjusted. There 
are things that can be done to deal 
with Social Security, but that is a debate 
separate and apart from the deficit 
and the fiscal cliff debate. 

The fiscal cliff debate is a tax issue, 
and it’s also a spending issue. Today we 
focus largely on the issue of what are 
we going to do about Medicare, a big 
part of the Federal expenditures. And 
our argument is this: we’re here to protect 
Medicare for seniors, period. We’re 
not here to cut the benefits for seniors. 
We’re here to see to it that Medicare, 
which has been a program for seniors 
since 1964–65, is going to continue to be 
there for seniors as well as the benefits 
package that’s there. There are reforms 
and changes that can be made to 
reduce the cost of Medicare but not to 
reduce the benefits. We’ve talked about 
many of those. 

So here’s where we’re coming. Within 
that area, there are very, very significant 
savings that can be made. The 
prescription drug benefit, $150 billion 
over 10 years. Other issues having to do 
with keeping people healthy, to extend 
their health care, issues having to do 
with how much we pay for certain services, 
fraud and abuse. All of those 
things could add up to the potential 
savings—not the potential savings—to 
the savings that the President has 
called for, which is somewhere in the 
range of $300 billion over 10 years—additional 
savings over and above what 
has already taken place in the Affordable 
Care Act. And we’ve seen in this 
decline in the inflation rate in health 
care some of the effects of the Affordable 
Care Act. So there are things that 
can be done and will be done. 

Social Security is not a part of this 
debate. 

But I also want to point out here in 
the last closing minutes of this a couple 
of things that I think are very, very 
important. The President has put forth 
a very detailed program calling for $1.6 
trillion in additional revenue over 10 
years; and that is money that is to 
come from the expiration of the George 

W. Bush tax cuts for the top 2 percent. 
Now I want to make this clear. I said 
this earlier—yes, it’s worth repeating 
because it’s not said very often—every 
American taxpayer gets a tax reduction. 
The superwealthy to the very 
minimum taxpayer in this Nation gets 
a reduction in what the President is 
proposing. And that is to continue at 
the current tax rate for those with 
under $250,000 adjusted gross income. 
For those who have income over and 
above that, they get that tax reduction. 
And above that, they’re going to 
pay an additional amount up to 3.9 percent 
in two different tranches. So everyone 
gets a tax break. 

But those superwealthy, the 2 percent, 
they’re going to pay more, and 
that will amount to a substantial 
amount of money over 10 years. And, 
frankly, they’ve had 12 years of really 
low, low taxes—the lowest taxes, really, 
ever since the 1930s. 

The President has also proposed 
something that’s very important. We 

talked about this last week. I want to 
talk about this again the next time we 
come here. And that is, how do we grow 
jobs? How do we put people back to 
work? 

The President has proposed an additional 
$50 billion. He did this more 
than a year ago in the American Jobs 
Act, and he’s put it back on the table: 
$50 billion in infrastructure. Let’s build 
the foundation. That deserves a lot of 
discussion; and, frankly, it’s something 
we ought to enact here right away and 
put people back to work. 

There are other savings that he’s proposed 
over the course of the next 2 
years. We don’t have time now. I notice 
my time has just about expired, if you 
would like to take a final shot at this, 
Mr. CURSON. 

And by the way, this is the first opportunity 
I have had to spend part of 
my hour with you. You are a very articulate 
spokesperson for the working 
men and women in this Nation. You 
know the issues of Medicare and Social 
Security so very, very well. And I 
know, coming from Michigan and Detroit, 
you know the need to build the 
jobs portion of our economy. So why 
don’t you close, and then I will wrap 
this up. 

Mr. CURSON of Michigan. Thank you 
for that, and I thank you for your comments. 


But without a doubt, we could take 
an hour talking about rebuilding the 
infrastructure, the jobs it would create, 
the need in America to fix our 
bridges and our roads. If you are about 
to drive over a bridge, you want it safe. 
It doesn’t matter if you are a Republican 
or a Democrat, you want that 
bridge to hold you and your car up as 
you go over it. That needs to be done. 

Much of our infrastructure is crumbling. 
The power grid is crumbling. If it 
goes out, it doesn’t matter what party 
you are affiliated with. You want your 
lights on; you want your refrigerator 
to work; you want your house warm. 

So all of those things that could be 
done and would put America back to 
work and create revenue from people 
working, when they get that paycheck, 
then they would have money to send 
their kid to a dance class or to go get 
a haircut. All the small businesses in 
the area spawn off of that money from 
creating jobs, rebuilding our infrastructure. 
That should be on the forefront 
of our agenda, and I certainly 
hope we have a chance to talk about 
that. 

Mr. GARAMENDI. How about next 
week? We’ll come back to the floor 
next week, and we’ll pick up the issues 
of infrastructure, of jobs and the like. 

This week we need to focus on what 
has been put on the table by the Republicans 
and the Democrats on how to 
deal with the fiscal cliff, dealing with 
the issue of Social Security and Medicare. 
Social Security—no, not part of 
this problem. It is something we’ll deal 
with perhaps in the next Congress or 
even in the one beyond that because we 
do have time to deal with Social Security. 


Medicare—for those who want to privatize 
Medicare, end it as we know it 
with a voucher or a premium support 
program—no. No way, no how are we 
going to go there. 

For those that want to work on 
changing the way in which Medicare 
operates to get savings, such as negotiating 
drug prices, dealing with fraud 
and abuse, the various payment systems 
that are in Medicare, all of which 
can save money and to continue the 
work of the Affordable Care Act, and 
the way it has already brought the inflation 
rate down from the 4 percent, 5 
percent range down into 2, 2.5 percent 
range, this is an extraordinary savings 
right here. And that will be calculated 
in the years ahead. And, frankly, this 
will add up to hundreds of billions of 
dollars in the reduction and the projected 
cost of Medicare in the years 
ahead. 

So we’re making progress. We’ve got 
work to do, and we’re prepared to do it. 
The Democrats are prepared to put together 
a compromise. Let’s get to work 
on it. The American public expects us 
to do that. And we can, and we will. 

With that, Mr. Speaker, I yield back 
the balance of my time. 

f 

IMMIGRATION 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
5, 2011, the gentleman from California 
(Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN) is recognized 
for 60 minutes as the designee 
of the majority leader. 

Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. 
Thank you very much, Mr. 
Speaker. 

I take to the floor at this time to 
talk about an issue that is of the utmost 
importance to this country, one 
that I have worked on for several decades, 
and one that has an urgency to it 
that cannot be denied, and that is the 
issue of immigration. 

It is a multifaceted issue, one that 
has a number of subtexts to it but, 
nonetheless, is one that will not be 
confronted. The challenges will not be 
met unless or until we recognize the 
problem or the challenges as they truly 
exist. 

And what I mean by that is this: immigration, 
in all its aspects, is a part 
of the heritage of this country. Immigration 
is one of the cornerstones of 
this Nation. It has been said—and I 
think it is true—that this is a Nation 
of immigrants. And what that means is 
that most of us, with the exception of 
those who are Native Americans, trace 
our ancestry to some foreign country, 
some foreign shore. 

b 1530 

The rate of immigration has gone up 
and down over the two-plus centuries 
of the existence of this country. It has 
varied in terms of where the greatest 
numbers come from over the centuries. 
It has resulted from and has been altered 
by decisions made by previous 
Congresses and Presidents in terms of 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6615 

the laws that prevail with respect to 
immigration. But the fact of the matter 
is that we now are facing a question 
of immigration policy that has not, in 
fact, worked for some period of time to 
the extent that is necessary. 

There are several aspects of it, as I 
mentioned before. One is the area of 
legal immigration. This country has a 
glorious history in terms of inviting 
and accepting and embracing peoples 
from all over the world. I think I can 
say without contradiction that this 
country has had the most open policy 
with respect to immigration over the 
years of any country in the world. We 
had restrictions at times, some that, as 
we look back now, appear to have been 
at least misguided. We have had some 
discriminatory practices in the past 
with respect to people from certain 
parts of the world, certain parts of Asia 
at times. There was, in fact, a bias, if 
you will, towards Europe, and particularly 
Western Europe, over a number of 
years. 

But in the 1960s, there was a decision 
made in this country by way of our 
laws that moved us towards a worldwide 
quota system, meaning that the 
chances for peoples around the world 
were to be in some ways viewed as 
equal, meaning that we did not have a 
bias towards Europe, we did not have a 
bias towards some other part of the 
world. The idea was that we would try 
and make our immigration policy work 
such that someone who wished to come 
to the United States from a country in 
Africa or a country in Asia would have 
a similar chance as existed for someone 
in Europe. So that was a major change 
in our overall policy. 

When I came to Congress in 1979, that 
was essentially where we were, but we 
also realized that there had been a lack 
of enforcement of the laws with respect 
to legal immigration such that we had 
a significant number of people who had 
come to the United States without the 
benefit of papers, or to say it another 
way, who had come into this country 
illegally or had overstayed their legal 
status in this country and were now 
here illegally. 

One of the consequences of a lack of 
proper enforcement, one of the consequences 
of having large-scale immigration 
is that it overrides, in a significant 
way, the law that would look out 
and say no matter where you are from 
in the world, you would have approximately 
an equal chance of coming to 
the United States. And if you had illegal 
immigration from particular areas 
of the country, that would, in a sense, 
create a bias under the practice, if not 
the actual law, for that part of the 
world. 

We found, interestingly enough, that 
the largest number of people who had 
come to this country or were in this 
country without proper documentation 
came from Central and South America, 
the largest number of them from a single 
country, that is Mexico, which is 
not altogether surprising when you realize 
we have a common border with 

Mexico that ranges from the Gulf of 
Mexico to the Pacific coast and is approximately 
1,960 miles long. If you 
have visited it, if you have traveled 
along its entire length as I did back in 
the early 1980s as a member of the Immigration 
Subcommittee, you will find 
the topography such that it is difficult 
at times to actually have a border that 
is marked and a border that is controlled. 
Nonetheless, that does not excuse 
us for not exercising the control 
that we should have. 

Because of the fact that we had this 
dilemma of a large number of people 
who had come to this country illegally 
and at the same time we’re attempting 
to enforce the law such that a worldwide 
quota system would still, in fact, 
be worked, in the 1980s there was an effort 
to try and reform our immigration 
laws. I was a part of that as a member 
of the Immigration Subcommittee. We 
were, as Republicans, the minority at 
the time. So as the top Republican on 
the subcommittee, I was not the chairman. 
I was, in fact, the ranking member. 


I am pleased to say that at that time 
I had a great working relationship with 
the then-chairman of the subcommittee, 
Ron Mazzoli, a Democrat 
from Louisville, Kentucky. Perhaps the 
fact that we both were graduates from 
the University of Notre Dame and 
shared an affinity for our alma mater 
assisted us in working closely together. 
And also, consequently, there had been 
a bipartisan commission established in 
the first instance by President Carter 
and continued on by President Ronald 
Reagan. It was cochaired by Father 
Theodore Hesburgh, the former President 
of the University of Notre Dame, 
a person much admired and someone 
that I had known for most of my life 
and Ron Mazzoli had known, as well. In 
a very interesting way, we worked together 
acknowledging the proper roles 
of the commission and the Congress 
and shared information, and I think we 
shared the same hope that we could 
come up with legislation that would reform 
our laws. 

In 1984, we passed an immigration reform 
law here in the House of Representatives, 
and there was a similar 
law passed in the United States Senate. 
There was a call for a conference. And 
in a practice that is somewhat different 
from what you observe today in 
the Congress, at least for the last several 
Congresses, at that time you actually 
had a physical conference where 
you had Members from the Senate and 
the House representing those two sides 
of the Capitol meeting in public session 
attempting to try and work out a conference 
report. 

I recall meeting in a large room 
where the table, as it was set up in a 
rectangular fashion, was very large to 
accommodate all of the Members of the 
House and all the Members of the Senate 
who were there attempting to try 
and deal with the issue, and our staffs 
assisting us. We spent, I think, actually 
an entire month in conference at


tempting to work out a conference report. 
We were unsuccessful. 

We came back in 1985 in the new Congress 
and began working both in the 
Senate and the House. At that time, 
the common name of the bill changed 
from Simpson-Rodino to Simpson-Mazzoli, 
recognizing the tremendous effort 
made by the chairman of the subcommittee, 
Ron Mazzoli. And I recall 
being at this position on the floor of 
the House, when this was the minority 
leadership table, being the Republican 
floor manager of the Simpson-Mazzoli 
bill. 

We spent well over a week on the 
floor debating. As I recall, we had well 
over 200 amendments that were in 
order, most of which actually got debate 
on the floor of the House. And 
there was consideration of some issues 
within the overall issue of immigration 
reform that I think went from liberal 
to conservative, from issues of legal 
immigration to illegal immigration, 
agricultural work, seasonal workers. 
Just about everything was considered 
on this floor in almost totally open debate. 


I was proud to be a part of that debate. 
I was proud to have garnered the 
sufficient number of votes on the Republican 
side to join with those on the 
Democratic side so that we passed that 
bill. 

b 1540 
We went to conference. We completed 
action on that. We sent the bill to the 
President. I can recall driving back to 
the residence I had here in this area on 
an afternoon when I was listening to 
the radio and hearing the report that 
the White House had announced that 
President Reagan was going to sign the 
bill. I almost drove off the road at that 
time. I recall that I had worked with 
the administration but that it was not 
a perfect bill—I’ve never found a perfect 
bill here—and there were many 
naysayers. So you were never sure 
until the President made the decision 
that he would sign it, and I was pleased 
to be at the White House when the 
President signed that bill. It was a true 
compromise. 
It did result in the largest legalization 
that we’d ever had in the United 
States. I don’t believe it was total amnesty—
I would reject that notion—but 
it was, in fact, a legalization. The genius 
of that compromise was that there 
would be legalization on the one hand 
and that there would be enhanced enforcement 
going forward on the other. 
If one would look at the reports of illegal 
immigration that followed the 
signing of that bill into law by President 
Ronald Reagan, one would see an 
interesting thing: the numbers coming 
across our southern border dramatically 
dropped immediately after that 
law was passed. In large measure, it 
was because of the widely held belief 
that, in fact, we would enforce the law, 
that there was enhanced enforcement, 
and that we were going to be serious 
about it. 


H6616 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

I haven’t looked at those numbers in 
a long time, but it seems to me, as I recall, 
that for a period of, maybe, 12 to 
18 months we saw a significant drop in 
illegal migration into this country. 
Then it became evident that enforcement 
was going to be slow, if at all. 
The fact of the matter is that there 
was not enforcement. There was not 
enhanced enforcement as there wasn’t 
enforcement. There wasn’t a serious effort. 
That was a combined result of a 
failure to follow through on the part of 
the Congresses and the administrations. 
As a result, after a significant 
drop for a short period of time following 
the passage of and the signing 
into law of Simpson-Mazzoli, we saw a 
ratcheting up of illegal immigration 
into this country. That was in 1986. 

Fast-forward to the present time. We 
have had the result of that ratcheting 
up of illegal immigration into this 
country. We have had a situation in 
which, since people saw that we 
weren’t going to enforce the law, there 
was an encouragement, in essence, to 
come to this country in any way one 
could. There was, as the sociologists 
called it, the magnet that caused people 
to come to this country or invited 
people to come to this country or attracted 
people to come to this country; 
and that magnet, otherwise known by 
sociologists as the ‘‘pull factor,’’ was 
called the prospect of jobs. 

I had argued on the floor of this 
House back in the 1980s that, in fact, 
we had to recognize the reality of the 
reliance of American agriculture on 
foreign workers to a significant degree. 
Now, I’d come from the Southwest. I’d 
come from southern California. I had 
seen that close up. I had gone to the 
fields. I had seen the conditions in 
which people would live just for the 
possibility of coming to the United 
States for a job. Since we—the people 
through our government—didn’t control 
it in a fashion in which the government 
actually determined the number 
of jobs that would be available, determined 
who would come in, how long 
they would stay, under what circumstances 
they would work, and in 
what areas of the country they would 
work, it happened anyway, without any 
controls whatsoever, and the problem 
was exacerbated. 

One of the fundamental changes I’ve 
seen or differences that I’ve observed in 
being in the Congress these last 8 
years, as opposed to the 10 years I was 
from ’79 to ’89, is that the problem, as 
I saw it in the Southwest, is not nearly 
confined to the Southwest now; it is, in 
fact, a national problem. You will find 
the presence of those who are here illegally 
who are working in agriculture 
all over this country. You’ll see the increase 
in seasonal work because you’ll 
see the increase in the demand for 
‘‘local produce,’’ for locally grown 
crops. As you see that, you see the demand 
for seasonal agricultural workers 
expanding to other parts of the country, 
and we don’t control it. 

We don’t have a workable system. 
Some people say, well, we have the 

guest worker program under the Labor 
Department, the H–2A program. It, 
frankly, doesn’t work. It works for 
about 4 percent of the agricultural industry 
in the United States. I say that 
as someone who helped draft the legislation 
as a part of Simpson-Mazzoli, 
not because that’s what I thought was 
the best we could do, but that it was 
the best that was able to be accomplished 
in any legislation that was 
going forward. So we now are confronted 
with a situation in which we 
have had large-scale illegal immigration 
into this country after the passage 
of Simpson-Mazzoli and the failure to 
implement the enforcement side of 
that. 

We also are confronted with the question 
of legal immigration and the fact 
that, right now, I believe, we set aside 
too many visas for those folks who 
have particular skills that we believe 
might help this country at the present 
time. I’m not in any way denigrating 
unskilled workers, and I’m not in any 
way denigrating those people who come 
to this country without skills and then 
develop them once they’re here. Our 
history is replete with those who have 
accomplished great things in having 
come to this country with nothing 
more than a desire to do well, a commitment 
to hard work, and using the 
intelligence and the other skill capacities 
given them by God. 

I do say it makes no sense when we 
have a situation in which we take peoples 
from around the world who come 
to this country because we have the 
greatest colleges in the world and who 
develop expertise in science, technology, 
engineering, mathematics—and 
in areas that might have an immediate 
impact on some of the most important 
growth industries as we look to the future—
and we say to them, if you get 
your degree here, you’ve got to go to 
your home country for several years 
and then apply to come back to this 
country in order to work here but that 
Canada will allow you in right away or 
that many other countries will allow 
you in right away; or go back to your 
home country and, thereby, compete 
with the United States’ economy 
amidst emerging economic growth in 
your home country. 

I saw this very, very closely at hand 
when I saw one of our major technology 
companies actually build a 
plant just over the border in Canada, 
utilizing a core of those people who had 
graduated from American colleges, who 
had come from foreign countries, and 
who were immediately accepted into 
Canada. Then Canada was able to build 
a workforce of about 1,000 people 
around a core of probably no more than 
100 people who would have been required 
to go back to their home countries 
from the United States. They basically 
said, Hey, you don’t have to go 
there. You can come to Canada—and 
we lost the potential for 1,000 jobs 
going right across the border because 
of a policy which doesn’t fully understand 
the appropriateness of our 

matching up with those people who 
have particular skills and wish to stay 
in this country after they’ve been 
trained in this country: their skills and 
our needs. Now, we did vote on the 
STEM Act here this past week, which 
was one attempt at dealing with that 
question, but it was only one attempt 
at dealing with that question. 

In some ways, in my judgment, the 
changes we need to make in legal immigration 
have been—I don’t know if 
I’d use the term ‘‘held hostage,’’ but 
they certainly have been put on the 
back burner because of the desire for us 
to deal with a true problem that is 
more prominent, and that is illegal immigration. 
So why am I talking about 
this? Well, I’m not going to have the 
chance to work on this after January 2. 
While I devoutly desired the opportunity 
to do that, there has been a decision 
made otherwise. I still have the 
passion for dealing with this issue, because 
I think it’s so important to this 
Nation. I think it goes to the identity 
of this country, and I think it goes to 
the future of this country. I reject the 
notion that we either have to be a Nation 
of immigrants or a Nation of laws. 

b 1550 
I think we can be both a Nation that 
welcomes immigrants and a Nation of 
laws. I think we have to understand 
that there is nothing wrong with this 
country as a sovereign Nation making 
decisions with respect to immigration 
law that are in the best interest of 
America. Sometimes I think when 
we’re talking about international law, 
we’re talking about international relations, 
and we’re talking about the 
work of the United Nations, and we’re 
talking about working with other people 
in the world; and we lose sight of 
the fact that the first obligation of the 
Federal Government is to have the interest 
of the people of this country at 
heart, that the obligation of the State 
Department, for instance, is to represent 
the national interest of the 
United States. 
And so I make no apologies for the 
United States asserting that it has a 
right to make decisions in the area of 
immigration that are in the best interest 
of the United States. I guess the 
tough question is what is in the best 
interest of the United States. Again, I 
would say it is to show that we can be 
both a Nation of immigrants and a Nation 
of laws. 
So I refrain from using the phrase 
‘‘comprehensive immigration reform’’ 
because that has become a watchword 
or a watch-phrase for amnesty, and I 
understand that. I avoid using the term 
‘‘pathway to citizenship’’ for those who 
have been here illegally because that, 
in fact, is defined as amnesty—and for 
good reason, in many circumstances. 
But I do think we have to apply a 
multifaceted response to a multifaceted 
challenge or problem. So, first, 
in order to gain the confidence of the 
American people, we have to admit 
that when we did the last major immigration 
reform, and we’ve had some 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6617 

bills since then, but I’m talking about 
the major immigration reform Simpson-
Mazzoli, we did fail to implement 
the enforcement side of things. The 
American people understand that. 
They think they were shortchanged; I 
think they were shortchanged. We have 
to admit that readily. That is part of 
the context in which we have to deal 
with the issue; and I think we have to, 
therefore, accept it, acknowledge it, 
and learn from those mistakes. 

So we need to have a commitment towards 
enforcement. We need to have 
borders that are controlled, not just 
because of the issue of immigration or 
illegal immigration, but because of the 
threat in a period of asymmetric warfare 
or an asymmetric threat where 
those who are committed to do us 
harm are not just nation states but 
maybe transnational terrorist organizations 
or maybe those that have been 
known as lone wolves who are incited 
by, inspired by, and committed to the 
values that have been expressed by 
those terrorist organizations who 
spread their venom around the world 
seeing who might be attracted to it. 

And if, in fact, you have a situation 
like that, you ought to be even more 
cautious than before about those entering 
into this country with terrorist 
thoughts and terrorist desires against 
this country. 

So for any number of reasons, we 
need to have a commitment to controlling 
our borders, number one; and, 
number two, we have to acknowledge 
that one of the magnets, or one of the 
pull factors, causing people to come to 
the United States or inviting people to 
come to the United States is the prospect 
of employment that does not consider 
the legal status of those who seek 
that employment. And so that’s why I 
think an E-verify system or something 
very much like that has to be a part of 
what we do. 

Third, we have to acknowledge that 
in the area of agriculture, there is a 
proven need for foreign workers. People 
can argue about it, but I would just say 
look at the example of the State of 
California, my home State. We’ve seen 
that for well over 100 years we’ve relied 
greatly on foreign workers for agriculture. 
They’ve been legal or illegal 
depending on whether or not we’ve had 
a program. 

I have for many years looked back at 
the bracero program to see both its 
positives and its negatives. Its 
positives were basically categorized as 
a government-sponsored, regulated program 
that allowed people to come into 
this country to seek work in the area 
of agriculture and give them legal status 
while they did. That’s the positive. 
The negatives are that in many ways 
there weren’t protections for the workers 
and because one who came under 
the bracero program was tied to a specific 
employer, if he or she had a complaint 
about that particular employer, 
they often found themselves back in 
their home country before they ever 
had any adjudication of that complaint. 


So I think you have to devise a program 
that would determine the number 
of people that come here, determine 
under what circumstances they come 
here, determine in what areas of the 
country they can be here, but in a 
sense allow them to be free players in 
a free market that is defined by the 
job, that is, agriculture. And particularly 
because of the seasonal-worker 
nature of much of agriculture that 
they engage in, allow them to go from 
employer to employer. 

There are enforcement mechanisms 
that can be put in place to ensure that 
they stay in agriculture, and there are 
significant penalties that you can 
apply if they fail to get a job or get a 
job in agriculture. 

One of the things that I’ve had as 
part of any proposal that I’ve presented 
is that you take the amount of money 
that would go into Social Security, the 
employer and the employee contribution, 
and that goes into a fund that 
first is responsible for paying for the 
administration of the program so 
there’s no burden to the taxpayer. Secondly, 
that money would go into a fund 
that would pay for any cost incurred by 
local jurisdictions for emergency medical 
care that was rendered to those individuals. 
And, third, that which would 
be remaining would go into a fund that 
would—that is for the contribution by 
the employer and the employee for 
that particular individual—be dedicated 
to that individual but would be 
redeemable only if they returned to 
their home country and were physically 
present there. If they weren’t 
during the period of time they were 
supposed to be home, they would not 
have that fund. That money would be 
forfeited. If they did, they would be 
able to redeem that money back in 
their home country. 

My idea would be that they would be 
able to work in this country for 10 
months out of any calendar year, and 
they’d be able to go back and forth during 
that period of time. One of the 
things that we have discovered is that 
as we’ve increased our ability to enforce 
our control of the border, if someone 
successfully gets across the border 
to work in the United States, they now 
have a great incentive not to return 
home for fear they won’t be able to 
make it back. 

So in a very perverse way, the very 
success of our increased enforcement 
has made it more likely that they will 
stay here permanently rather than return 
home. So we need to develop a 
program that is based on the facts as 
they exist. And participation in the 
program doesn’t put them on the road 
to citizenship. It doesn’t grant them 
any rights with respect to citizenship 
or permanent resident status. It is a 
temporary worker program. 

I do not think that other industries 
have proven the case that they need 
those kinds of foreign workers. I really 
don’t. In terms of construction, for 
goodness sake, why do we have the 
high unemployment rate among Afri


can Americans in this country and 
among Hispanics who are here legally 
in this country when the construction 
trade is a great trade to learn, is a 
wonderful way to be able to earn one’s 
living, and has an opportunity for people 
to move from just someone working 
at the job site up to learning their 
trade and becoming a contractor or 
subcontractor in some ways. 

b 1600 
So I would not suggest that we expand 
the Guest Worker Program that 
I’m suggesting beyond agriculture, but 
I do believe it is appropriate in the 
area of agriculture. 
Probably the most difficult thing to 
deal with in this entire arena is the 
question of those who have been here 
for a substantial period of time in illegal 
status, illegal immigrants who 
have been here for a long period of 
time, those that have put down roots in 
the community. 
There are those that say, look, the 
best way to do this is just take care of 
the problem by putting them on the 
road to citizenship. And there are those 
who have suggested things such as voluntary 
departure or enforcement of 
some other mechanism. And while I appreciate 
the sincerity and the thinking 
that goes into both those positions, my 
belief, after being involved in this for 
over 30 years, is that neither one of 
those positions is going to ultimately 
succeed. 
So what do we do? 
In baseball we have something, when 
a ball is pitched to the batter the batter 
wants to get the wood on the ball. 
He wants to hit it in the sweet spot, 
right? 
He wants to be able to maximize the 
energy that is generated by his swing 
against the ball. And one of the best 
ways to do that is to hit that sweet 
spot in the bat. So I’ve been looking for 
the sweet spot on this issue. Some people 
call it the midway; some people call 
it the compromise. I call it the sweet 
spot. 
It seems to me that we could do this. 
And I’ve proposed this in legislation, 
and I would hope that at least it would 
be considered in the next Congress by 
those who will remain. And the idea is 
that you would identify those individuals 
who’ve been here for a significant 
amount of time. And of course that’s 
up to a decision by the future Congresses 
as to what that time is. Is it 5 
years? Is it 10 years? I mean, what is 
it? 
But I think you’d have to establish 
what characteristics of roots in the 
community would identify these individuals. 
Certainly you wouldn’t grant 
this to someone who just got into the 
country yesterday or last week, I don’t 
think, because I think that would then 
encourage further illegal immigration 
in the future. People say, hey, look, 
they make it fairly easy, they’re going 
to do it down the line. 
So you have to understand about the 
consequences of the impact on those 


H6618 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

who are looking at it from afar, as well 
as those who are immediately impacted. 
So you first determine what 
the period of time would be that would 
establish them as people who have 
roots in the community. 

Secondly, I think you have to make 
sure that they haven’t committed 
crimes of another nature, the crime of 
coming into this country, remaining in 
this country illegally, but not any 
other crimes. And people say, well, gee, 
it might be this crime or that crime. 
Well, you know, that’s a consequence 
of your action. I think this would be 
for those people who have not committed 
other crimes in this country. 

It seems to me there ought to be a requirement 
that they know English or 
are engaged in the study of English. 
Why do I say that? 

I’m not opposed to foreign languages. 
I wish I knew some foreign languages. 
I have enough trouble with English. 
But if we are a country of immigrants, 
as we profess to be, and as we are, I believe, 
you have to have some unifying, 
identifying characteristics that bring 
you together. One is the sense of the 
understanding of the civil institutions 
we have. But certainly, one is the manner 
in which we express ourselves. 

So a common language, I think, is 
particularly important to a country of 
immigrants. It brings us together. It 
allows communication. It allows us to 
come together as a community, without 
giving up or in any way disparaging 
our heritage. So I would have 
that as the second requirement. 

Third, it seems to me, there ought to 
be a requirement for a study of some of 
those civil institutions of our society. 
There should be an understanding of 
what the essence of the democratic institutions 
are because people coming 
from other countries have other traditions, 
other systems. 

I’m reminded of this, when we had 
large-scale refugee numbers coming 
into this country. I was a young attorney 
in southern California. I remember 
going down to Camp Pendleton with 
other attorneys and volunteering our 
time to teach those in the refugee community, 
and that was one of the places 
that they first came in California, to 
Camp Pendleton, before they then 
found sponsors and came to other parts 
of our country and the state. 

Giving them simple instructions in 
the law, and the way the courts 
worked, and what your rights were. 
Fairly elementary, but nonetheless, 
necessary. And it was indelibly impressed 
on me that some of the things 
we do in our system are not immediately 
apparent, and people from different 
backgrounds, different cultures, 
different countries may not appreciate 
it. 

If they are coming here, one of the 
great things about this country is assimilation. 
And so that’s why I would 
require a study of civil institutions, 
and our governmental structure among 
them, for those individuals. 

Next, people talk about a particular 
fine, and I don’t know what that num


ber would be, but I understand that to 
be appropriate. 

Now, under those circumstances, 
what would I say they have? 

Would they go to permanent resident 
status? 

No. I would create a new category of 
legal status in this country called a 
blue card or red card, whatever you 
want to call it, in which they would, 
for a period of time, maybe 3 years, 
maybe 5 years, but they could repeat 
it, they could re-up this. During that 
period of time they would have legal 
status in the United States. They could 
work in the United States, live in the 
United States, go to school in the 
United States, but they would not be 
on the road to citizenship. In order to 
do that, they would have to have a 
touch-back in their home country, and 
they would get in line behind everybody 
else. 

Now, why do I think that’s important? 


I think at the base of the objection to 
amnesty, as I understand it, is this 
idea that it is unfair to cut in line. If 
you’re a kid and you’re at school and 
you’re waiting in line to get a drink of 
water, you’re waiting in line to go to 
the bathroom, you’re waiting in line to 
get your lunch, and you see somebody 
cut in line, you immediately know 
that’s not fair. We all know that’s not 
fair to cut in line. 

So why should someone who didn’t 
follow the law cut in line in front of 
those who have waited in their own 
country for their opportunity to come 
to the United States? 

So my sweet spot in this particular 
argument would be that, while you 
have an ability to remain in the United 
States, in order to get on the path to 
citizenship, and not give you an advantage 
over somebody else from your 
home country, you must touch back in 
your home country and you must get 
in line behind everybody else who followed 
the law. 

I think that is an approach that at 
least ought to be considered. I’d hoped 
to be here in the next Congress to be 
able to raise that and to fight for it 
and to see how others would view it, 
but I won’t have that opportunity. I 
hope to be on the outside, and whatever 
I do, to have a chance to continue 
to influence the debate, following 
whatever the lobbying rules are. I 
know I can’t directly lobby, but hopefully, 
as an American citizen I can talk 
about those issues in that first year, 
and I can talk about why it’s important 
for us as a country. 

And yes, I’ve said in our own conference, 
it’s important for us as a 
party, my party, the Republican Party. 
We have to understand the dynamics 
that are involved there. I’ve seen it 
happen in my home State. I’ve seen 
what the political implications are, 
and I think we ought to pay attention 
to them. 

But, beyond that, far more important 
than that, far more fundamental than 
that is the fact that this country has 

to confront this issue in a reasonable 
fashion, in an intelligent fashion, and 
in a fashion that improves the state of 
this country. 

So I know there are men and women 
of goodwill in this House and in the 
Senate who will and can work together. 
I would make a humble request 
of the President of the United States, 
that he toss aside partisanship, and 
that he join those Members in the Congress 
and those of us who will be in the 
public, out in the public, in an effort to 
try and deal with this issue. 

With all due respect, when the President 
of the United States went down— 
I think it was to El Paso—a couple of 
years ago and said Republicans want to 
build a fence, and then they want to 
build a moat, and they want to put alligators 
in it, that is hardly an invitation 
to cooperate. 

That image, in and of itself, when 
you realize the history of the Rio 
Grande, and when you realize the history 
of people coming across the Rio 
Grande to this country, that image is 
devastating. It does not open people’s 
hearts to the possibility of reaching a 
compromise. It drives people away. 

And so my hope would be that the 
President would, as Ronald Reagan did 
in the 1980s, work with those who are 
in the House and the Senate to try and 
come up with a compromise that deals 
with the issues of this day under the 
grand rubric of immigration, and that, 
putting aside partisanship and political 
advantage, work in good faith with 
Members of the House and Senate to 
accomplish this task. 

b 1610 
And I would ask this: that those in 
this House and those in the Senate and 
those in the administration under the 
direction of the President begin working 
on this early, not late. If the work 
is done early, as we did in 1985, the 
chances of being able to actually accomplish 
a completed legislative vehicle 
and have it on the President’s desk 
for signature are greatly enhanced. 
Don’t wait until it’s campaign year 
politics and certainly don’t wait until 
it’s the next Presidential election year 
for politics. Try and work on it now. 
This country is lesser for the fact 
that we haven’t dealt with an issue of 
this importance. This country is lesser 
for the fact that we have all the tensions 
that exist as a result of a failure 
of the law to respond to the realities of 
the time. And we put ourselves in a conundrum 
where, in just one instance, I 
would cite men and women in the farm 
community in my home State of California 
who have farmed for generations 
and have seen the reality of the labor 
market for agriculture—our men and 
women who are patriotic and love this 
country and want to follow the law, 
who in fact would support an E-Verify 
system which would allow them the 
certainty of having legal workers but 
who on the other hand recognize the 
need for foreign workers—these people 
would be put into a no-win situation, a 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6619 

catch-22, where on the one hand they 
would be forced to follow the letter of 
the law, knowing that they would not 
have the workers that would allow 
them to continue in the generation’s 
old farming business that they have or, 
on the other hand, as patriotic Americans 
in their own way, nonetheless be 
forced to break the law in order to retain 
their livelihood. That’s unacceptable. 
That is shortsighted. That is self-
defeating. And it is something that we 
should not allow. 

Now it’s easy to get up here and do a 
Special Order and talk about how I 
would solve the problem. It’s much 
more difficult to have a completed solution 
to a problem. And I understand 
that. I in no way suggest that this is 
easy or it will come quickly. But I do 
believe we have men and women of 
goodwill, of patriotic hearts, who can 
and are prepared to work on this issue. 
And I would hope that the President of 
the United States, now almost in his 
second term, would understand the seriousness 
of the issue, the immenseness 
of the challenge facing us, and would 
understand that in the best interest of 
the United States it would behoove us 
to work together to solve the problem. 
I’m not sure what I’m going to do be 
doing in the next year, but I do know 
that I want to be involved in the debate, 
and hopefully I can applaud my 
colleagues that remain here as they 
succeed in dealing with this very difficult 
problem. 

So, Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues 
for listening to me and I encourage 
my colleagues to deal with 
this issue in the spirit of goodwill that 
I know they have. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

f 

RIGHTING THE WRONGS IN 
AMERICA 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
BARLETTA). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of January 5, 2011, the 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. GOHMERT) for 30 minutes. 

Mr. GOHMERT. It’s uplifting to hear 
my friend, DAN LUNGREN from California. 
What an amazing public servant 
he has been. I fought battles with the 
man. I know his heart. And he’s going 
to be sorely missed. He cares so deeply 
about this country. 

Such is the lot of people whose country 
has leadership decided by elections. 
Sometimes good things happen, sometimes 
they don’t. But democracy ensures 
that a people are governed no 
better than they deserve. So whether 
someone liked President Reagan or 
President George H.W. Bush or President 
Bill Clinton or President George 

W. Bush or President Barack Obama, 
the truth is that at the time they were 
elected President, we as a Nation overall 
got the President we deserved at 
that time. 
One of the most impressive speeches 
I’ve ever heard was given by Senator 
Barack Obama at the Democratic Convention. 
And I love the way he talked 

about America, coming back as one 
America. Not a red America or a blue 
America, but America. Just one country. 
And it was one of the things that 
I drew great hope from on 9/12/2001 as 
people around the country gathered 
around, as we did in our local east 
Texas town, and people of all races and 
ages and gender, and we all held hands 
and we sang hymns and patriotic songs. 
And I looked around the circle and was 
deeply moved because I knew that day 
there were no hyphenated Americans, 
there were just Americans. And we 
were together. And everybody standing 
there in that square holding hands, we 
shared the love for our country. We 
wanted to see it strong. We wanted to 
see it recover from that devastating 
blow from people intent on evil, based 
on hatred. 

That senator that wanted one America 
has presided in such a way that we 
seem more divided than ever—more 
people on food stamps, more people 
below the poverty level, more people 
struggling than ever before. We were 
told if the $900 billion giveaway stimulus 
proposal—porkulus some called 
it—if that was passed, we would be recovering 
very quickly. And if we did 
not pass that stimulus, porkulus, whatever 
you want to call it, if we didn’t 
pass that bill in early 2009, the country 
might well reach unemployment rates 
as high as 8, 8.5 percent, as I recall. 
Well, guess what? We passed it and 
things got worse. It was a terrible bill. 
It was not the way you fix an economy 
in danger, suffering. 

b 1620 
What’s so tragic right now, Mr. 
Speaker, is how many people across 
America are struggling, out of work. 
I’m not just talking manual laborers or 
older workers, I mean all ages, well-
educated, poorly educated. We’ve got 
people out of work around this country 
that are really in desperate straits. 
Some take different approaches. I was 
shown numbers that indicated at one 
point that when people are unemployed, 
many of them will look full 
time for employment, for substitute 
employment, but on average may have 
30 minutes a week—for an average— 
until the last 2 weeks of the unemployment 
benefits, and at that time it may 
go as high as an average of 10 hours or 
so of the last 2 weeks looking for employment. 
This President is demanding that we 
extend unemployment benefits for another 
year for those who have been unemployed 
for a year. We also know that 
in his JOBS Act—it was really a JOBS 
Act for lawyers because they created a 
new protected class called the unemployed; 
so that if you had been unemployed 
for 2 years and you go apply for 
a job and the employer looking for a 
worker considers the fact that you 
didn’t look for a job for 2 years and instead 
hired somebody that had been 
out of work for a month and was desperately 
spending all his or her time 
looking for employment, if you consid


ered the fact that somebody had been 
unemployed, how long they had been 
unemployed, then you would be sued 
under the President’s proposed bill. 

So it was going to be a great boon to 
trial lawyers, to plaintiffs’ lawyers because 
they would be suing on behalf of 
every unemployed worker who went 
and looked for a job for the first time 
in a couple of years. I mean, you could 
have that kind of scenario, not look for 
a job for a year or two, go look for a 
job, and then turn your case over to a 
lawyer to sue anybody that didn’t hire 
you because you didn’t show any particular 
motivation, and most employers 
want motivated employees. 

So we know that the President has 
made this proposal; he wants to extend 
unemployment for another year. Just 
to show what a worthless organization—
they’re smart people; they’re 
very good people; they’re a good organization, 
but their rules are so pitiful, 
so unrealistic, so unmoored to the 
foundation of good economic projections—
we have the Congressional 
Budget Office, CBO. They come in, and 
apparently—I was reading an AP story. 
I didn’t see the CBO numbers themselves, 
but the story said that, according 
to CBO projections, extending unemployment 
for another year for those 
that have been unemployed for a year 
now would cost $30 billion. But the 
great thing is that $30 billion of paying 
people to remain unemployed would 
create 300,000 jobs. So what a great 
thing for America, for our economy if 
you spend $30 billion and create 300,000 
jobs. Until you start looking at the 
numbers and you go, Wait a minute. 
Wait a minute. We’re spending $30 billion. 
We’re told if we do that it will 
create 300,000 jobs? Well, that’s not 
very smart. That’s $100,000 that we 
would be spending for every job we create. 


What kind of math is being utilized 
by the White House and by CBO? I 
mean, how stupid are Americans? Oh, 
yeah, great idea. Let’s let the government 
spend another $100,000 to create 
one job that may not be but a part-
time job, pay $20,000 or so. Well, I’ll bet 
if we offered people across America, 
made an offer, we want to create 300,000 
jobs this month and so we’re looking 
for bids. Who will come to work for less 
than $100,000? I’ll bet you would get 
300,000 people working very quickly for 
a whole lot less than $100,000 a job. 

So that kind of math is what has gotten 
us in trouble. It’s why we need an 
alternative to CBO scoring that deals 
realistically with what we’re engaged 
in, because it’s only when we have a 
scoring system for bills that is wedded 
to legitimacy and historical reality 
that we will begin to have better legislation. 
Because when you have a group 
that has such ridiculous rules to score 
bills that it will come in and say 
ObamaCare, yes, it will cost $1.1 trillion, 
and then they have their Director 
called to the Oval Office and reminded, 
apparently, that the President promised 
it would cost less than $1 trillion 


H6620 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

and they rescore it and come back with 
$800 billion—with a wink and a nod, apparently—
and then after it passes, they 
come back and say, Oh, you know 
what, it was actually more than a trillion. 
Now we’re told maybe $1.6 trillion—
who knows, 1.8, maybe 2.0. Who 
knows. But any entity whose margin of 
error for scoring bills in Congress is 
plus or minus 100 percent margin of 
error does not need to be allowed to do 
any more scoring. We need to do a competition 
of it. It’s what Americans do 
well. When we compete as a nation, 
when we have people in America competing, 
we do better. So let’s have competition 
for scoring bills. 

I was having a wonderful discussion 
with one of the best economic minds in 
the country, Arthur Laffer, and I said I 
was hoping that maybe we could get 
someone else to score bills—Moody’s, 
S&P, others. My office had checked 
with Moody’s. They said they don’t 
score bills. He said, They will if you 
pay them, and I bet you you could get 
it done for a whole lot less than what 
it cost to keep CBO going. 

So think about that. We start having 
a competition for scoring bills so that 
we can get legitimate bills, not one 
where America is promised it will cost 
$800 billion only to find out it’s going 
to be more than twice that amount 
even before it really comes into fruition. 
We need competitive scoring. 
Then, over a few years of time, we will 
begin to see who’s more accurate and 
who’s not. We will be able to score the 
scorers. Because until that time, we 
will continue to limp along and have 
ridiculous mathematics like CBO telling 
us that ObamaCare will cost $800 
billion and shortly later coming back 
and saying it’s probably going to be 
$1.6 trillion. A margin of error of 100 
percent is intolerable. It’s time for a 
different means of scoring. 

Let’s have competition. I think that 
you would end up having some of the 
universities in the country have their— 
whether it’s economic or finance departments. 
Texas A&M has a great department 
that does a lot of projections 
and calculations. I know there are 
schools around the country that do 
that. We could make a competition. 
And the better you are at scoring, perhaps 
the more you get paid for scoring 
bills because you’re more accurate. 
Make it a competition. Because in the 
meantime, having an entity that scores 
bills, that is used to condemn a bill or 
raise a bill to the heights, is bringing 
us down to economic ruin. It’s one of 
the little parts of the puzzle that needs 
fixing. 

b 1630 
So we have a President who continues 
to be vague on what he will accept 
to avoid what people are calling 
the fiscal cliff. Well, I might remind 
people that the fiscal cliff was gone 
over in August of 2011. Some have already 
forgotten. We were told if we 
didn’t have a debt ceiling increase by 
August 2, we were going over the finan


cial cliff. It was financial Armageddon. 
Everything would melt down. It was all 
going to be just this horrible financial 
melee. It was a disaster. We could not 
allow ourselves to get to August 2 
without having a debt ceiling increase. 

Some of us made proposals, and we 
took a look at what was being proposed. 
And we said, Are you kidding, a 
supercommittee? That’s not going to 
do any good. They will never be allowed 
to reach an agreement. Some of 
us were told, Well, of course they’ll 
reach an agreement because if they 
don’t, there will be these massive 
amounts of devastating cuts to our defense 
and devastating cuts to Medicare. 
They’d never allow $300 billion or so to 
be cut from Medicare on the other side 
of the Capitol here. And I reminded my 
friends they just cut $700 billion from 
Medicare for ObamaCare. 

This President and the Senate were 
pitting our seniors against younger 
workers in America. They’re pitting 
our seniors on Social Security and 
Medicare against younger workers. 
What kind of President, what kind of 
party, what kind of Senate does such a 
thing? Why would you pit younger 
workers against our seniors? But that’s 
what occurred with the debt ceiling 
bill. 

That’s what occurred with the 2 percent 
cut to the Social Security tax. It 
sounded like a great idea, and now we 
find out 2 years later, actually, that 2 
percent reduction in the amount of 
money that workers pay into Social 
Security, it was a very small amount, 
relatively speaking, to the amount of 
debt the United States and workers are 
having to run up because of the poor 
economy. 

But we were told, Oh, it may save 
them $60, $80 a month. It may be such 
a great thing. And yet $60, $80—as important 
as that is to any individual 
worker—meant that last year, for the 
first time, the Social Security taxes 
coming in did not cover the Social Security 
checks going out. It meant that 
this administration pushed through a 
bill with Leader REID down in the Senate 
pushing the way for it. It meant 
that seniors’ checks were not covered 
by the Social Security taxes being paid 
by at least 5 percent. 

There were projections then that it 
was a 5 percent shortfall last year, and 
this year it’s going to be a 14, 15 percent 
shortfall. That wasn’t supposed to 
happen for several years. Republicans 
and Democrats were debating in years 
past—since I’ve been here in the last 8 
years—about how, no, that wouldn’t 
happen until 2018. Others said, no, that 
won’t happen until 2048. Well, it happened 
last year in 2011. The money 
coming in from Social Security tax did 
not cover Social Security payments. 
And so what’s the proposal by this 
President and Leader REID? It’s, let’s 
gut Social Security even further. Let’s 
make it bankrupt even quicker. 

Listen, what’s going on? I know we 
all have the goal of making America 
stronger, but we’re seeing that what is 

happening is hurting the economy. It’s 
making America weaker. And for all of 
the talk this fall about, gee, we may 
have turned the corner economically if 
it weren’t for our czar, the Federal Reserve 
czar, Bernanke, creating money 
out of thin air, then the economy 
would be even worse than it is today. 
But I think the President owes Mr. 
Bernanke a great thank you for helping 
him win reelection by creating so 
much money out of nothing. 

But the trouble with that is next 
year Americans will pay a very severe 
price, as we see inflation start to take 
hold. But the President, Mr. Bernanke, 
they knew that that inflation wouldn’t 
really kick in now before the election. 
So it helped him win reelection. And 
then we would get into next year, and 
then the inflation would start kicking 
in. And then with a poor economy and 
inflation, we’re back to the end of the 
Carter years. 

And with the President having cut 
the permits down in half for drilling on 
Federal land from what they were 
under the Bush administration, he was 
able to receive the benefits of the permits 
done during the Bush years so he 
could say, Look, we’re producing more 
on Federal land. Isn’t that great. Well, 
yes, but now we’re going to start seeing 
the consequences of cutting in half the 
number of permits during the Obama 
administration’s first term; and there 
will be a price to pay in our energy 
costs over the next 4 years. 

We hear people saying over and over 
and over again Americans must pay 
their fair share. The rich must pay 
their fair share. Everyone must pay 
their fair share. And on that, I am in 
100 percent agreement with our President, 
with Leader REID at the other 
end of this building, with my friends 
across the aisle, the Democrats here 
who want everybody to pay their fair 
share. I’m in 100 percent agreement. We 
absolutely should do that, make everybody 
pay their fair share. 

You know, lots of folks use the metaphor, 
Let’s make sure everybody has 
some skin in the game. Well, if you 
really want to have everyone pay their 
fair share, there is an easy answer; and, 
fortunately, it would drive this economy 
to brand-new heights. It would 
drive this country and our economy to 
a new economic renaissance. It would 
be incredible. And all of our friends 
around the country who are suffering, 
who don’t have even $3 a gallon to pay 
for gasoline, it would help them when 
they can’t handle the rent going up and 
the groceries going up. It would help 
them as we saw the economy become 
more vibrant because after 4 years, if 
Tim Geithner were really honest, he 
would come forward and say, as Secretary 
of Treasury Morgenthau did in 
1940 when he wrote: 

We have spent more money than any country 
in history, and we have nothing to show 
for it but more debt. 

That’s what a Secretary of the Treasury 
who wanted to be honest would say 
after 4 years of the most incredible 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6621 

spending beyond anything that Secretary 
Morgenthau, under Roosevelt, 
could have ever dreamed. 

Well, here’s a good answer. When you 
hear the term ‘‘fair share,’’ think flat 
tax. You want people to pay their fair 
share, make a flat tax. 

Now, the President has had his friend 
Warren Buffett, one of many of the 
megarich in this country—in fact, the 
megarich Wall Street apparently support 
the President four to one over Republicans. 
It’s one of the great, amazing 
misconceptions in America. Wall 
Street executives and their spouses donate 
four to one to Democrats over Republicans. 
So I would like to see the fat 
cat Democrats and the fat cat Republicans 
all pay their fair share. I’m tired 
of hearing Warren Buffett say he 
doesn’t pay as much a rate as his secretary 
and he wishes the rich were 
taxed more. 

b 1640 
What hypocrisy is that? Holy cow. 
It’s really easy. We’ve made it easy. 
Just write the check to the U.S. Government, 
IRS, however you want to. 
We’ll cash it however you want to 
write it. 
You want everybody to pay their fair 
share? Let’s pay taxes at a flat tax 
rate. The great thing about a flat tax is 
when you make more, you pay more; 
when you make less, you pay less. The 
other thing about a flat tax, it doesn’t 
just need to be a flat tax on income; it 
ought to be a flat tax across the board. 
Some think there should be no deductions. 
I’m in favor of two. A brilliant 
mind, even though he went to Harvard, 
Arthur Laffer, has an idea, and he’s 
talking in terms of two good deductions: 
a mortgage interest deduction 
and charitable deductions. Frankly, I 
don’t want to see a cap on charitable 
deductions, because that plays right 
into this administration’s desire to 
have government be the end-all, be-all 
charity, even though as we’ve seen 
from Katrina under a Republican administration 
and we’ve seen from 
Sandy under a Democratic administration, 
the Federal Government is not 
the best answer for getting help quickly 
enough to people. It was the private 
sector that got gas, water, and help 
most quickly to people who suffered 
from Hurricane Katrina and from Hurricane 
Sandy. But a proposal to cap 
charitable contributions as deductions 
would end up killing charities and forcing 
people to come begging, Oh, please, 
government, would you please give me 
a morsel, give me another crumb. So 
whichever party happens to be in power 
gets more power, Republican or Democrat, 
we’ve got to stop that cycle of dependency. 
We have got to help people 
reach their God-given potential. 
When you hear about fair share, you 
want an equal percentage tax, let’s 
have one for Warren Buffett and the 
same rate for his secretary. Let’s make 
the income tax, the corporate tax, the 
capital gains tax, the gift tax, the estate 
tax, let’s just make them all 15 

percent across the board. I’ll never 
have a problem with an estate tax, but 
it is outrageous to make people sell the 
family farm or sell the business or get 
in hock up to their ears for something 
their parents have worked a lifetime to 
build up. People like Warren Buffet, 
the ultrarich, they’re not going to have 
to worry about the estate tax because 
they’re able to pay megabucks for lawyers 
and brilliant financial analysts to 
come up with a way—usually involving 
life insurance and different things—to 
take care of their estate tax. So it’s 
not the megarich. 

When people say they’re going after 
the rich fat cats, England did that in 
2009. An article last week pointed out 
that in 2009, England increased to 50 
percent, in addition to all the other 
taxes they have, the tax against people 
making 1 million pounds or more, and 
that next year England went from having 
16,000 people who were making 1 
million pounds or more a year to 6,000. 
They dropped from 16,000 people making 
more than 1 million pounds a year 
to 6,000. That’s an incredible drop, a 
two-thirds loss. So there was no additional 
income made—or, it’s not 
made—it’s taken. There was no additional 
income taken by raising the 
taxes on the rich because they’re too 
elusive to nail down. 

So you might as well set up a system 
that doesn’t keep punishing the middle 
class. The truth is, when you raise 
taxes on the ultrarich and you keep 
spending to match that—and actually 
this administration and some friends in 
this Congress want to keep raising the 
amount we spend instead of getting realistic. 
When you keep doing that, 
what you hurt is the middle class. 
They’re the ones that suck it up because 
the middle class—when you work 
at a store or a factory or a mechanic’s 
garage, any of the places that the middle 
class work, when you work there, 
you can’t just pick up your factory if 
you’re a worker and move wherever 
you want where the taxes are less. The 
owners of the factory can, they can 
move. They don’t have to pay the higher 
tax. The workers can’t. As you see 
what happened in England, when that 
happens everywhere, when you raise 
taxes on the ultrarich, they move because 
they can. And who has to suck up 
all that extra money that has to be 
provided for, that the government 
doesn’t have? It’s the middle class that 
does. 

With that, I yield back the balance of 
my time. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I move 
that the House do now adjourn. 

The motion was agreed to; accordingly 
(at 4 o’clock and 45 minutes 
p.m.), under its previous order, the 
House adjourned until tomorrow, 
Wednesday, December 5, 2012, at 9 a.m. 

EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, 
ETC. 

Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive 
communications were taken from the 
Speaker’s table and referred as follows: 

8568. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Fenpropathrin; Pesticide 
Tolerances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2009-0644; FRL-
9366-1] received November 28, 2012, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Agriculture. 

8569. A letter from the Under Secretary, 
Department of Defense, transmitting account 
balance in the Defense Cooperation 
Account as of September 30, 2012; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 

8570. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation Plans; Delaware; 
Control of Stationary Generator Emissions 
[EPA-R03-OAR-2012-0619; FRL-9754-9] 
received November 28, 2012, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
8571. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Health and Safety Data Reporting; 
Addition of Certain Chemicals 
[EPA-HQ-OPPT-2011-0363; FRL-9355-9] (RIN: 
2070-AJ89) received November 28, 2012, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

8572. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation Plans; Pennsylvania; 
Allegheny County Incorporation by 
Reference of Pennsylvania’s Consumer Products 
Regulations [EPA-R03-OAR-2012-0797; 
FRL-9755-2] received November 28, 2012, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

8573. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation Plans; State 
of Florida; Regional Haze State Implementation 
Plan [EPA-R04-OAR-2010-0935; FRL-9755-

8] received November 28, 2012, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
8574. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; California; Determinations 
of Attainment for the 1997 8-Hour 
Ozone Standard [EPA-R09-OAR-2011-0492; 
FRL-9757-1] received November 28, 2012, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

8575. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of State Implementation Plans; City of Albuquerque-
Bernalillo County, New Mexico; 
Interstate Transport Affecting Visibility and 
Regional Haze Rule Requirements for Mandatory 
Class I Areas [EPA-R06-OAR-2008-0702; 
FRL-9755-5] received November 28, 2012, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

8576. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Revisions to the California 
State Implementation Plan, San Joaquin 
Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District 


H6622 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 4, 2012 

(SJVUAPCD) [EPA-R09-OAR-2012-0267; FRL-
9730-3] received November 28, 2012, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce. 

8577. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Revisions to the California 
State Implementation Plan, San Joaquin 
Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District 
(SJVUAPCD) and South Coast Air Quality 
Management District (SCAQMD) [EPA-R09-
OAR-2012-0252; FRL-9737-1] received November 
28, 2012, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); 
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce. 

8578. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation Plans; Ohio; 
PBR and PTIO [EPA-R05-OAR-2007-1102; 
EPA-R05-OAR-2008-0782; FRL-9753-7] received 
November 25, 2012, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. 

8579. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Colorado: Final Authorization 
of State Hazardous Waste Management 
Program Revisions [EPA-R08-RCRA-2012-
0396; FRL-9753-6] received November 20, 2012, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

8580. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of State Implementation Plans; State of New 
Mexico; Regional Haze Rule Requirements 
for Mandatory Class I Areas [EPA-R06-OAR-
2009-0050; FRL-9755-6] received November 20, 
2012, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce. 

8581. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; Florida; Section 
128 and 110(a)(2)(E)(ii) and (G) Infrastructure 
Requirements for the 1997 8-hour Ozone National 
Ambient Air Quality Standards; Correction 
[EPA-R04-OAR-2011-0809; FRL-9754-5] 
received November 20, 2012, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
8582. A letter from the Assistant Regional 
Director, USFWS; Acting Chair, Federal 
Subsistence Board, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting the Department’s final 
rule — Subsistence Management Regulations 
for Public Lands in Alaska — 2012-13 and 
2013-14 Subsistence Taking of Wildlife Regulations 
[Docket No.: FWS-R7-SM-2010-0066] 
(RIN: 1018-AX33) received November 29, 2012, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Natural Resources. 

8583. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, transmitting 
the Administration’s final rule — 
Snapper-Grouper Fishery off the Southern 
Atlantic States; Snapper-Grouper Management 
Measures [Docket No.: 120403249-2492-02] 
(RIN: 0648-BC03) received November 29, 2012, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Natural Resources. 

8584. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, transmitting 
the Administration’s final rule — 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act Provisions; Fisheries of the 
Northeastern United States; Northeast 
Multispecies Fishery; Interim Action; Rule 
Extension [Docket No.: 120316196-2195-01] 
(RIN: 0648-BB89) received November 29, 2012, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Natural Resources. 

8585. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, transmitting 
the Administration’s final rule — 
Atlantic Highly Migratory Species; 2006 Consolidated 
Highly Migratory Species Fishery 
Management Plan; Amendment 4 [Docket 
No.: 080603729-2454-02] (RIN: 0648-AW83) received 
November 29, 2012, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Natural 
Resources. 
8586. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, transmitting 
the Administration’s final rule — 
Fisheries Off West Coast States; West Coast 
Salmon Fisheries; Announcing OMB Approval 
of Information Collection [Docket 
No.: 120614172-2395-01] (RIN: 0648-BC29) received 
November 29, 2012, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Natural 
Resources. 
8587. A letter from the Chief, Publications 
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue 
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule 

— 2013 Standard Mileage Rates [Notice 2012-
72] received November 29, 2012, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 
8588. A letter from the Chief, Publications 
and Regulations, Internal Revenue Service, 
transmitting the Service’s final rule — Tier 
2 Tax Rates for 2013 received November 29, 
2012, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Ways and Means. 

f 

PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XII, public 
bills and resolutions of the following 
titles were introduced and severally referred, 
as follows: 

By Mr. POE of Texas (for himself and 
Mrs. MALONEY): 

H.R. 6628. A bill to amend the DNA Analysis 
Backlog Elimination Act of 2000 to provide 
for Debbie Smith grants for auditing 
sexual assault evidence backlogs and to establish 
a Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence 
Registry, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. WALZ of Minnesota (for himself, 
Ms. MCCOLLUM, and Mr. 
WOMACK): 

H.R. 6629. A bill to improve the training of 
child protection professionals; to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce, and 
in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. CARTER: 

H.R. 6630. A bill to require that the members 
of the Armed Forces and civilian employees 
of the Department of Defense who 
were victims in the attack that occurred at 
Fort Hood, Texas, on November 5, 2009, and 
the family members of those victims be accorded 
the same treatment, benefits, and 
honors as were accorded the victims of the 
September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the 
United States and the family members of 
those victims; to the Committee on Armed 
Services, and in addition to the Committee 
on Oversight and Government Reform, for a 
period to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mrs. CHRISTENSEN: 

H.R. 6631. A bill to provide energy crisis relief 
to residents of the Virgin Islands; to the 
Committee on Agriculture, and in addition 
to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, 
Transportation and Infrastructure, 
Financial Services, and Education and the 
Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 


By Mr. MORAN: 

H.R. 6632. A bill to amend the National 
Voter Registration Act of 1993 to modernize 
State voting systems by allowing for increased 
use of the internet in voter registration, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on House Administration. 
By Mr. WITTMAN (for himself, Mr. 
FORBES, Mr. RIGELL, Mr. SCOTT of 
Virginia, Mr. WOLF, Mr. MORAN, Mr. 
HURT, Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia, Mr. 
GRIFFITH of Virginia, Mr. COURTNEY, 
and Mr. GOODLATTE): 

H. Con. Res. 143. Concurrent resolution 
congratulating the Navy and the current and 
former officers and crew of the U.S.S. Enterprise 
(CVN 65) on completion of the 25th and 
final deployment of the vessel; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 
By Mr. WOLF (for himself, Mr. BROUN 
of Georgia, Mr. CAMPBELL, Mr. WILSON 
of South Carolina, Mr. GOHMERT, 
Mr. CULBERSON, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. 
CRAVAACK, Mr. BROOKS, Mr. WITTMAN, 
Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina, 
Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas, Mr. MEEHAN, 
Mr. POSEY, and Mr. KING of 
Iowa): 

H. Res. 824. A resolution establishing a select 
committee to investigate and report on 
the attack on the United States consulate in 
Benghazi, Libya; to the Committee on Rules. 
f 

MEMORIALS 
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials 
were presented and referred as follows: 

300. The SPEAKER presented a memorial 
of the General Assembly of the State of California, 
relative to Assembly Joint Resolution 
No. 39 supporting the use of a portion of 
federally generated seafood product import 
revenues for domestic marketing and promotion 
of California fish and seafood; to the 
Committee on Agriculture. 
301. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 31 requesting 
the Congress and the Department of Defense 
to remain committed to maintaining the 
144th Fighter Wing and the Aerospace Control 
Alert mission in California; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 
302. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 40 urging the 
Federal Housing Finance Agency to immediately 
allow the Federal National Mortgage 
Association and the Federal Home Loan 
Mortgage Corporation to offer principal reductions 
to homeowners; to the Committee 
on Financial Services. 
303. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 46 supporting 
the advocacy efforts of Operation San Diego; 
to the Committee on the Budget. 
304. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 27 memorializing 
high school and college coaches of 
women’s athletics are to be commended for 
progress in attaining the goals of Title IX; to 
the Committee on Education and the Workforce. 
305. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 47 supporting 
the efforts to ensure pay equity and to protect 
employees who seek information about 
pay without fear of retribution; to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 

December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6623 

306. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 27 memorializing 
high school and college coaches of 
women’s athletics are to be commended for 
progress in attaining the goals of Title IX; to 
the Committee on Education and the Workforce. 
307. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 44 recognizing 
September 2012, and each September 
thereafter, as Sickle Cell Anemia Awareness 
Month; to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. 
308. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 28 urging the 
Postal Service to end its plan to reduce the 
frequency of mail delivery from six days to 
five days a week; to the Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform. 
309. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 28 urging the 
Postal Service to end its plan to reduce the 
frequency of mail delivery from six days to 
five days a week; to the Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform. 
310. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 20 calling for 
the Congress to quickly pass the Gulf of 
Farallones and Cordell Bank National Marine 
Sanctuaries Boundary Modification and 
Protection Act; to the Committee on Natural 
Resources. 
311. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 20 calling the 
Congress to quickly pass the Gulf of 
Faralloens and Cordell Bank National Marine 
Sanctuaries Boundary Modification and 
Protection Act; to the Committee on Natural 
Resources. 
312. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 45 urging the 
President and the Congress to reauthorize 
the Federal Assault Weapons Ban; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 
313. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 47 supporting 
the efforts to ensure pay equality and to protect 
employees who seek information about 
pay without fear of retribution; to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 
314. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 45 urging the 
President and the Congress to reauthorize 
the Federal Assault Weapons Ban; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 
315. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 25 supporting 
the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise 
Relief Act of 2011; to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
316. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 25 supporting 
the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise 
Relief Act of 2011; to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 

317. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 46 supporting 
the advocacy efforts of Operation San Diego; 
jointly to the Committees on the Budget and 
Armed Services. 
318. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 35 urging the 
President and the Congress to restrict the 
transshipment for waterborne export of coal 
for electricity generation to any nation that 
fails to adopt rules and regulations on the 
emissions of greenhouse gases; jointly to the 
Committees on Energy and Commerce and 
Foreign Affairs. 
319. Also, a memorial of the General Assembly 
of the State of California, relative to 
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 30 memorializing 
the President and the Congress to 
enact appropriate legislation that would add 
comprehensive, preventative dental care coverage 
to Medicare benefits; jointly to the 
Committees on Energy and Commerce and 
Ways and Means. 
f 

CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY 
STATEMENT 

Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of 
the Rules of the House of Representatives, 
the following statements are submitted 
regarding the specific powers 
granted to Congress in the Constitution 
to enact the accompanying bill or 
joint resolution. 

By Mr. POE of Texas: 

H.R. 6628. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 Clause 1, which reads: 
The Congress shall have Power To lay and 
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, 
to pay the Debts and provide for the common 
Defence and general Welfare of the United 
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excise 
shall be uniform throughout the United 
States; 

Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18, which reads: 
The Congress shall have Power To make all 
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for 
carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, 
and all other Powers vested by the Constitution 
in the Government of the United 
States, or in any Department or Officer 
thereof. 

By Mr. WALZ of Minnesota: 

H.R. 6629. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

This bill is enacted pursuant to the power 
granted to Congress under Article I, Section 
8 of the United States Constitution. 

By Mr. CARTER: 

H.R. 6630. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 
Art. 1, Sec. 8, cl. 12 
By Mrs. CHRISTENSEN: 
H.R. 6631. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

‘‘Article IV, section 3 of the Constitution 
of the United States grant Congress the authority 
to make all needful Rules and Regulations 
respecting the Territory or other 
Property belonging to the United States.’’ 

By Mr. MORAN: 

H.R. 6632. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 4 of the Constitution of 
the United States grants Congress the authority 
to enact this bill. 

f 

ADDITIONAL SPONSORS 

Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors 
were added to public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 

H.R. 1695: Mr. MICHAUD. 
H.R. 2082: Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. 
H.R. 2705: Mr. MICHAUD. 
H.R. 3159: Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. 
H.R. 3713: Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. RIVERA, and Mr. 
ENGEL. 
H.R. 4120: Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas, Ms. 
BORDALLO, and Mr. ELLISON. 
H.R. 4322: Mrs. BLACK and Mr. STIVERS. 
H.R. 5742: Ms. DEGETTE. 
H.R. 5822: Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. 
H.R. 5991: Ms. DEGETTE. 
H.R. 6128: Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mr. CAPUANO, 
and Mr. MORAN. 
H.R. 6200: Mr. HONDA. 
H.R. 6322: Mr. ROSS of Florida. 
H.R. 6412: Mr. VAN HOLLEN and Mr. CURSON 
of Michigan. 
H.R. 6443: Mr. WEST, Mr. MICA, Mr. ROONEY, 
Mr. NUGENT, Mr. WEBSTER, Mrs. ADAMS, Mr. 
YOUNG of Florida, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. 
STEARNS, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. POSEY, Mr. 
SOUTHERLAND, and Mr. MACK. 
H.R. 6448: Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. 
H.R. 6511: Mr. FORBES. 
H.R. 6567: Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. 
H.R. 6575: Mr. LATHAM. 
H.R. 6587: Ms. WATERS, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. 
BECERRA, Mr. CAMPBELL, Ms. CHU, Mr. 
DENHAM, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. HAHN, Mr. 
HERGER, Mr. LEWIS of California, Ms. ZOE 
LOFGREN of California, Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN 
of California, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. GEORGE 
MILLER of California, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, 
and Mr. WAXMAN. 
H.R. 6598: Mrs. BLACKBURN. 
H.R. 6606: Ms. PINGREE of Maine. 
H.R. 6625: Mr. KLINE. 
H.J. Res. 81: Mr. BOREN. 
H.J. Res. 90: Mr. PERLMUTTER. 
H. Con. Res. 141: Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. 
VELA´ ZQUEZ, Mr. KEATING, Mr. ELLISON, and 
Ms. ESHOO. 
H. Res. 134: Mr. GONZALEZ and Mr. DAVID 
SCOTT of Georgia. 
H. Res. 220: Mr. CONYERS. 
H. Res. 298: Mr. QUIGLEY. 
H. Res. 760: Mr. PASTOR of Arizona and Mr. 
REYES. 
H. Res. 818: Mr. NUNNELEE. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 112th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 158 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2012 No. 154 

The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Honorable CHRISTOPHER 
A. COONS, a Senator from the 
State of Delaware. 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of


fered the following prayer: 

Let us pray. 

Lord of light and glory, bend Your 
ears to hear our prayers. Lord, deep inside 
we long to be a part of something 
bigger than ourselves. Give our lawmakers 
the wisdom to discover Your 
purposes and the courage to obey Your 
commands. Lord, teach them to 
promptly make right decisions and to 
resist the temptation to waste the currency 
of the faith and trust of the 
American people. As they follow Your 
providential leading, may our Senators 
strive to be instruments of Your glory. 
Use them, Lord, to do Your will on 
Earth even as it is done in Heaven. Into 
each dark and trying hour, send the illumination 
of Your mercy and grace. 

We pray in Your great Name. Amen. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
The Honorable CHRISTOPHER A. 
COONS, a Senator from the State of 
Delaware, led the Pledge of Allegiance, 
as follows: 
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

APPOINTMENT OF ACTING 

PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will please read a communication 
to the Senate from the President pro 
tempore (Mr. INOUYE). 

The legislative clerk read the following 
letter: 

U.S. SENATE, 
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE, 
Washington, DC, December 4, 2012. 
To the Senate: 

Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3, 
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby 

Senate 

appoint the Honorable CHRISTOPHER A. 
COONS, a Senator from the State of Delaware, 
to perform the duties of the Chair. 

DANIEL K. INOUYE, 

President pro tempore. 

Mr. COONS thereupon assumed the 
chair as Acting President pro tempore. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY 
LEADER 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The majority leader is recognized. 


f 

SCHEDULE 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, following 
leader remarks the Senate will proceed 
to executive session to consider the 
disabilities treaty. The time until noon 
will be equally divided and controlled 
between Senators KERRY and LUGAR, 
the managers of this treaty, or their 
designees. 

At noon there will be a rollcall vote 
on the Resolution of Advice and Consent 
to Ratification of the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 


I have a number of requests. We don’t 
do treaties often, and our requests 
from Senators on both sides of the aisle 
have suggested, and I think they are 
right, that because this is a treaty, the 
votes will take place from our desk 
today. Everyone should be on notice, 
they should be here, and we will vote 
from our desks. 

Following the vote, the Senate will 
recess to allow for the weekly caucus 
meetings. 

Additional votes on the National Defense 
Authorization Act are expected 
during today’s session. 

f 

MEASURE PLACED ON THE 
CALENDAR—H.R. 6429 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I am told 
there is a bill, H.R. 6429, due for a second 
reading. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will read the bill by 
title for the second time. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 6429) to amend the Immigration 
and Nationality Act to promote innovation, 
investment, and research in the United 
States, to eliminate the diversity immigrant 
program, and for other purposes. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I would object 
to any further proceedings with respect 
to this legislation at this time. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The objection is heard. 

The bill will be placed in the calendar. 


f 

FISCAL CLIFF 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, it has been 
almost 3 weeks since we all met with 
the President to avert that fiscal cliff 
we hear so much about. Yesterday, 
after weeks of delay, and as the days 
dwindle and taxes are set to go up for 
millions of families and businesses, Republicans 
in the House finally showed 
up at the negotiating table. 

Now we know why they have been 
holding their cards so close to their 
vests. Their proposal would raise taxes 
on millions of middle-class families. 
Their plan is to raise $800 billion in 
revenue by eliminating popular tax deductions 
and credits that would reach 
deep into the pockets of middle-class 
families. Republicans are so intent on 
protecting low tax rates for millionaires 
and billionaires, they are willing 
to sacrifice middle-class families’ economic 
security to do so. 

In the first year, unless we do something, 
middle-class families; that is, 
people making less than $250,000 a year, 
will get an average of $2,200 in additional 
tax, taxes they will have to pay. 

Their proposal that we received yesterday 
was short on specifics, but we 
do know from independent analysis 
that it is impossible to raise enough 
revenue to make a dent in the deficit 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S7363 


S7364 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

without using one of two things: raising 
tax rates on the top 2 percent or 
raising taxes on the middle class. 

As my friend, the senior Senator 
from Missouri, said on the Sunday talk 
shows, the Speaker has to make a decision 
whether it is more important to 
keep his job or to do something about 
the economy that is in such difficult 
shape in America. He has to make a 
choice. 

The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center 
called it mathematically impossible to 
reduce the deficit and give more tax 
cuts to the rich without harming the 
middle class. This is the same thing 
President Clinton talked about so often 
during the campaign, saying to everyone 
it is arithmetic. 

As usual, given the choice between 
millionaires and billionaires and the 
middle class, Republicans again sided 
with the wealthy of this country. In 
fact, their plan doesn’t just keep rates 
low for the richest 2 percent, it actually 
lowers them further. The Democrats’ 
plan would protect 98 percent of 
families and 97 percent of small businesses 
from painful tax increases by 
asking the top 2 percent to pay a little 
bit more to reduce the deficit. 

The Republicans’ plan, on the other 
hand, is more of the same. Not only 
does it balance the budget on the backs 
of the middle class, it voids our promise 
to seniors with steep cuts to Social 
Security and Medicare, all to pay for 
even more handouts to the rich. 

At least we now know where they 
stand. Republicans have sought cover 
by invoking Erskine Bowles’ name, but 
he has disavowed their plan in no uncertain 
terms. We are glad to finally 
see Republicans joining in the negotiating 
process instead of watching from 
the sidelines. 

While their proposal may be serious, 
it is also a nonstarter. They know any 
agreement that raises taxes on the 
middle class in order to protect more 
unnecessary giveaways to the top 2 
percent is doomed from the start. It 
will not pass. 

Democrats would not agree to it. 
President Obama wouldn’t sign such a 
bill, and the American people would 
not support it. That is in all the polls 
that are in at press this morning. 

The American people are tired of 
budget-busting giveaways to the 
wealthiest few people who have enjoyed 
growing paychecks and shrinking tax 
bills for more than a decade. The 
American people want a balanced deal. 
Simple math dictates that a balanced 
deal must include higher taxes on the 
richest of the rich. Republicans would 
be wise to keep that in mind as negotiations 
move forward. 

We are willing to compromise, but we 
also will not consign the middle class 
to higher tax bills while millionaires 
and billionaires avoid all the pain. 

I have been told the leader of the 
Democrats in the House will file today 
a discharge petition asking the Speaker 
to bring the bill to the floor. All 
Democratic House Members, as far as I 

know, every one of them will sign this 
discharge petition. 

We have heard Republicans in the 
House who are willing to move forward. 
If every Democrat signs this, we will 
only need about 25 Republicans to join. 
The American people should see that 
picture. With 25 Republican votes—25 
Republican votes—middle-class America 
would be able to rest assured that 
they will not have a tax increase at the 
first of the year. Twenty-five Republicans 
is all it would take. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY 
LEADER 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Republican leader is recognized. 


f 

LIMITING THE RIGHT TO DEBATE 
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, 
during the past couple days, we have 
discussed the plans of the Democratic 
majority to make the Senate more ‘‘efficient’’ 
and to do it by breaking the 
rules of the Senate. It is what my Senate 
colleagues roundly criticized during 
the Bush administration as ‘‘breaking 
the rules to change the rules.’’ It is 
something Senate Republicans thought 
about but wisely chose not to do. 
The Senate has two great traditions, 
two great rights of Members and, by 
extension, the citizens they represent; 
the right to amend and the right to debate. 
Yesterday and last week I talked 
about the first of these great Senate 
rights and how the Democratic majority 
has sought systematically to 
marginalize the minority in its exercise 
of this right. 
I noted how the Democratic majority 
has bypassed committees to an unprecedented 
extent, how it has blocked 
members of the minority and members 
of the majority, too, from offering 
amendments on the Senate floor before 
cloture is invoked and how, when that 
didn’t shut out the minority, the majority 
used a bare majoritarian means 
to change Senate procedure to bar the 
minority from offering motions to suspend 
the rules after cloture was invoked. 
This systemic effort to marginalize 
the minority stands in stark contrast 
to the trend in the House under the Republican 
majority. It has allowed the 
minority in the House more chances to 
amend legislation on the House floor 
than existed under previous majorities. 
In fact, according to the Wall Street 
Journal, last year, the House held more 
votes on amendments on the floor than 
it did during the 2 previous years combined, 
when congressional Democrats 
were in the majority. 
When one compares the amendments 
and the motions voted on in the House 
this year with those voted on in the 
Senate, as the nonpartisan Congressional 
Research Service has done, the 
difference is truly startling. The House 
minority has been able to offer 214 such 

motions and amendments, compared to 
only 67 for the Senate minority, which 
is more than three times as many motions 
and amendments, but the minority 
in the House has had three times as 
many votes as the minority in the Senate. 
In terms of protecting the right of 
the minority to represent their constituents 
through amendments on the 
floor, the House is becoming more like 
the Senate used to be, and the Senate 
is becoming more like the House used 
to be. 

But what about the second great 
right in the Senate, the right to debate? 
How has the exercise of this right 
fared under the Democratic majority? 
The short answer is not so great. The 
filing of cloture under the Senate rules 
is the beginning of the process to end 
debate, and the wielding of this powerful 
tool is in the hands of the majority 
leader. If one wants to simply equate 
the filing of cloture, if one wants to 
equate the filing of cloture with a filibuster, 
there is the potential for the 
majority to generate a lot of filibusters 
with a quick trigger on the cloture motion. 


My friends on the other side of the 
aisle have painted a picture where cloture 
filings are needed to overcome an 
obstinate minority. Cloture is needed, 
so we are told, because of Members of 
the minority who refuse to stop delaying. 


But does filing cloture on a matter, 
be it on a bill, an amendment or a conference 
report, on the very same day 
the Senate is considering that matter, 
indicate a minority that is prolonging 
debate or does it indicate a majority 
that is eager not to have a debate at 
all? To me, a habitual effort to file cloture 
on a matter as soon as the Senate 
begins to consider the matter indicates 
the latter. 

What do the numbers show about the 
use of cloture by this Democratic majority? 
According to CRS, the current 
Senate majority has filed cloture on a 
matter—exclusive of motions to proceed 
to a matter—on the very same day 
it considered the matter three and a 
half times more often than the Senate 
Republicans did when they were in the 
majority. 

According to CRS, Senate Republicans 
filed same-day cloture on a matter 
just 30 times in 4 years. The current 
Democratic majority has done so well 
over 100 times. Put another way, Senate 
Democrats are much more apt to 
try to shut off debate on a matter as 
soon as the Senate begins considering 
the matter than were prior majorities 
including, most recently, Senate Republicans. 


The desire of my Democratic colleagues 
to shut down debate before it 
begins in these instances has nothing 
to do with overcoming resistance to 
the Senate taking up a bill because, as 
I have just noted, this analysis specifically 
excludes—excludes—same-day 
cloture filings on a motion to proceed. 

It is not just the right to amend that 
has taken a hit under the Democratic 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7365 

majority but the right to debate as 
well. All Senators and all Americans 
are disserved when these rights are systematically 
marginalized. 

This is not the ‘‘golden rule’’ we were 
promised when the Senate Democrats 
assumed the majority in 2007—far from 
it. 

Rather than continuing to diminish 
the great tradition to the Senate, rather 
than breaking the rules to change 
the rules, we need to strengthen those 
rights and traditions. As Senator Byrd 
noted, majorities are fleeting. One can 
wake after the first Tuesday in November 
and find oneself in the minority. 

I say with respect, I hope our Democratic 
colleagues are mindful of that as 
we continue this discussion and are 
prepared not only to live under the 
rules they would change but to live 
with a precedent they would establish 
by making those changes. 

I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The majority leader. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, it would be 
hard to travel to a university campus 
or to a chamber of commerce meeting 
or anyplace in the country, travel just 
to a supermarket and talk to people 
where they wouldn’t all agree that the 
Senate is dysfunctional, has not 
worked well. To show how right they 
are is a statement made yesterday by 
JOHN MCCAIN. 

Now, Mr. President, JOHN MCCAIN 
and I have had our political differences, 
but no one—no one—can quibble 
with the fact that JOHN MCCAIN is 
an American patriot. He was a Navy 
aviator shot down in Vietnam, spent 
years—I think it was 61/2 or 7 years—as 
a prisoner of war, 41/2 of those in solitary 
confinement. 

He and I came to the House of Representatives 
together. I know how the 
House works. I served there. While I 
appreciate my friend the Republican 
leader giving me a minilecture on the 
House, I don’t need one. I served in the 
House, and I know how the House 
works. And I know what JOHN MCCAIN 
said yesterday because I am reading a 
verbatim transcript from those proceedings, 
and here is what he said: 

. . . I apologize for what seems to have 
happened. Much to my dismay, it lends credence 
to the argument that maybe we ought 
not to do business the way we are doing here 
in the Senate. 

That is a direct quote from JOHN 
MCCAIN. 

As I said in my opening statement, I 
served in the House, and the reason I 
mentioned today in my opening statement 
about the discharge petition is 
that when I served there, under the 
leadership of Speaker O’Neill, Majority 
Leader Michel, and then Jim Wright 
and Michel, a Republican, there was no 
way they would ever consider doing a 
vote with the majority of the majority. 
They wanted to get 218 votes. That is 
what they did on reforming Social Security; 
that is what they did on virtually 
everything—get Democrats and 
Republicans together and get 218 votes. 

And that is the challenge I gave to 
the Speaker today, Speaker BOEHNER. 
Let the House vote. One Republican 
House Member suggested that more 
than half of the Republicans in the 
House would vote for giving tax security 
to people making less than $250,000 
a year. So I say, let’s have Speaker 
BOEHNER call upon the Republicans in 
the House to add 25 or so votes to what 
the Democrats would do, and they 
would have 218 votes and we could go 
on to taking care of the fiscal cliff. 

Mr. President, my friend protesteth 
too much. The Senate is broken, it 
needs to be fixed, and we need to 
change the rules. We change them all 
the time. Last year we changed the 
rules. Why? Because of what they were 
doing—the Republicans—just to stop 
and slow down everything. After two 
cloture votes—and remember that 
takes a long time, to file two cloture 
motions, a couple of days and then 30 
hours. So after 60 hours, you would 
think the debate would be all over. Oh 
no. What they decided to do was to suspend 
the rules and have more votes. We 
put up with it for a while—a couple 
here, a couple there. I think the last 
time they had 15 or 16 motions to suspend 
the rules. That was enough. They 
overruled the Chair. They can’t do that 
anymore. 

What the Republicans have done is 
they have brought the Senate to its 
knees, and that is unfortunate. We 
need to be able to have the Senate operate 
the way it should operate, and we 
need to make sure people understand 
how dysfunctional we are and how we 
need to move forward. 

They can say all they want about 
‘‘we need more amendments.’’ Nobody 
criticizes having more amendments, 
but when we spend 9 or 10 days getting 
on a bill, we have wasted all that time. 
Nothing happens during that time. We 
do nothing here in the Senate. Everything 
comes to a standstill. Yet they 
complain because they do not have 
time to offer amendments. 

f 

RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

Mr. REID. Would the Chair announce 
the business for the day. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
leadership time is reserved. 

f 

EXECUTIVE SESSION 

CONVENTION ON THE RIGHTS OF 
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senate will proceed to executive 
session to consider the following 
treaty, which the clerk will now report. 


The legislative clerk read as follows: 

Treaty Document No. 112–7, Convention on 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 

time until 12 noon will be equally di


vided. 

The Senator from Massachusetts. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, we are 
now, as everybody knows, on the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities. It is my understanding 
that we have about 48 minutes for each 
side. I would ask the opponents of the 
treaty to do what we normally do, 
which is go back and forth from one 
side to the other. I notice there is no 
one here for the other side, so what we 
will do is use up a component of our 
time, and then, because they are not 
here, I think it would be fair not to 
chew up the time in a quorum call. 

So I ask unanimous consent that if 
the opponents on the other side are not 
ready to speak or to use their time, 
that the quorum call be charged 
against them because I don’t think we 
should give up our time as a result of 
their simply not being here. So I ask 
unanimous consent that if there is a 
quorum and we are not speaking, the 
time be charged to their side. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Is there objection? 

Mr. LUGAR. Reserving the right to 
object, Mr. President, I believe the 
chairman has stated a fair position. On 
the other hand, in terms of our side, 
the Republican side, I wish to preserve 
at least the rights of our Members to 
have the maximum amount of time as 
possible. So I am inclined to believe 
the time should be charged equally 
against both sides. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, that is 
fine. I accept that. What I am trying to 
do is to use this debate period, important 
as it is, as effectively as possible 
on both sides. 

I see there is a Member from the 
other side who is in opposition, so I 
withdraw my request, and I yield 10 
minutes to the Senator from Indiana. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Oklahoma. 

Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, may I 
ask what we just decided in terms of 
time? 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I would 
inform the Senator from Oklahoma 
that we have agreed to simply proceed, 
hopefully alternating from side to side. 
We have about 48 minutes on each side, 
and I have yielded 10 minutes to the 
Senator from Indiana. 

Mr. INHOFE. I thank the Chair. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, the quorum 
calls will be equally divided between 
the sides. 

The Senator from Indiana. 

Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, as we all 
now know, the Senate will vote today 
on the Convention on the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities. The United 
States has long been a leader in its 
treatment of those with disabilities. 
Becoming a party to the convention 
would provide an important platform 
and forum for the United States to continue 
this leadership. 

We received strong expressions of 
support for the convention from a wide 


S7366 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

range of groups who advocate on behalf 
of the disabled. This includes numerous 
veterans organizations representing 
those who have become disabled while 
serving our country in the Armed 
Forces. 

An important factor in my decision 
to support the convention has been the 
testimony received by the Foreign Relations 
Committee that joining the 
convention will not require any 
change—and I emphasize that: will not 
require any change—in existing U.S. 
law or policies regarding treatment of 
the disabled. 

In their statements before the Foreign 
Relations Committee, officials 
from the executive branch as well as 
former Attorney General Richard 
Thornburgh stressed that current U.S. 
law satisfies all obligations the United 
States would assume in joining the 
convention. 

In order to underscore the importance 
of this point, the Foreign Relations 
Committee specifically addressed 
it in a declaration in the resolution of 
advice and consent. The declaration 
formulated by the Foreign Relations 
Committee reads as follows: 

The Senate declares that, in view of the 
reservations to be included in the instrument 
of ratification, current United States 
law fulfills or exceeds the obligations of the 
Convention for the United States of America. 


On a related point, the resolution of 
advice and consent also underscores 
that the convention will not be self-
executing in U.S. law. This means its 
provisions are not directly enforceable 
in U.S. courts and do not confer private 
rights of action enforceable in the 
United States. 

These provisions of the resolution of 
advice and consent establish important 
parameters for U.S. accession to the 
convention. They give effect to the intent 
of the Senate that joining the convention 
will not require any changes in 

U.S. laws and policies with regard to 
the disabled, either now or in the future, 
and will not provide a basis for 
lawsuits in U.S. courts. Such matters 
will continue to be governed solely by 
U.S. laws. 
It is my hope these provisions in the 
resolution of advice and consent will 
provide assurance to Members who 
may be concerned that joining the convention 
could somehow confer new 
rights on disabled persons in particular 
areas or that the convention can be 
used to require the United States to 
change its laws or policies with respect 
to the disabled. With these provisions, 
the United States can join the convention 
as an expression of our leadership 
on disability rights without ceding any 
of our ability to decide for ourselves 
how best to address those issues in our 
laws. 

The United States can play an important 
leadership role in helping countries 
around the world identify ways to 
expand opportunities for the disabled. I 
urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
United States accession to the 

convention as a means of advancing 
this goal. 

I would point out that many of us 
have visited with veterans—disabled 
veterans, as a matter of fact—in the 
corridors of the Capitol in the last 24 
hours. They have expressed without 
reservation the fact that their lives 
would be enhanced in the event we 
were able to pass this treaty, because 
their treatment in other countries 
would improve as other countries adopt 
principles we have found useful as a 
practical means of helping the disabled. 


I believe each one of us ought to be 
moved by the testimony of our veterans—
veterans I have seen here in the 
corridors who have lost legs during 
fights on behalf of the United States of 
America. This is a serious issue and a 
humanitarian, thoughtful way. And I 
emphasize again and again, the United 
States joins with other countries, sharing 
our experiences of how we can improve 
treatment of the handicapped, 
with no possible provision in the treaty—
and we have reserved this completely—
that there could be any 
change in our laws. 

I thank the Chair and I yield the 
floor. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I reserve 
the remainder of our time. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Oklahoma. 

Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I want 
to make sure people understand there 
are different thoughts on this convention. 
It seems as though most of the 
time when the U.N. conventions or 
treaties come up that I have been opposed 
to them, and my concern always 
has been that of sovereignty. I do oppose 
the United Nations Convention on 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
because I think it does infringe upon 
our sovereignty, establishing an 
unelected United Nations bureaucratic 
body called the Committee on the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities and 
a Conference of State Parties. These 
unelected bureaucratic bodies would 
implement the treaty and pass so-
called recommendations that would be 
forced upon the United Nations and the 
United States if the United States is a 
signatory. 

We already have the 1980 act. We all 
remember that. We went through that 
a few years ago. I was here at that 
time. It is considered to be the gold 
standard for the disabled. We don’t 
need the United Nations bureaucrats 
changing it in our country in the name 
of worldwide advocation. 

While the Obama administration affirms 
that no changes to the Federal or 
State law will be necessary if the 
CRPD is ratified, the CRPD can be 
amended. The Senator from Indiana 
talked about the fact that there are no 
changes in this. But it can be amended 
by the bureaucrats and, therefore, require 
changes to U.S. law. 

Further, the ability of the Committee 
on the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities to investigate and rec


ommend changes chips away at the 
ability of a sovereign nation in governing 
itself. 

I know a lot of people feel that no 
idea is a good idea unless it comes from 
an international organization. I kind of 
fall at the other end of the spectrum. 
Specifically, the treaty could be used 
to interfere with the ability of parents 
with disabled children to decide what 
action is in the best interest of their 
children. This would especially affect 
those parents who homeschool their 
children. 

I have a daughter—the runt of my 
litter, I say to the president—who is 
No. 4. Katie homeschools her children. 
She and I have talked about this, and 
this is very much a concern in that 
community, that unelected foreign bureaucrats—
not parents—would decide 
what is in the best interests of the disabled 
child even in the home. No less 
than 40 organizations and tens of thousands 
of parents who advocate children 
and parental rights have written us, 
and me, specifically opposing the treaty. 


The Home Schooling Legal Defense 
Fund writes: 

Article 7 of this treaty establishes the 
‘‘best interests of the child’’ legal standard, 
which would override the traditional fundamental 
rights of parents to direct the education 
and upbringing of their child with 
special needs. 

This could result in forcibly transferring 
a disabled child from the home to 
government-run schools if these 
unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats 
deem it necessary, even if the Senate 
puts reservations into this treaty. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD two letters, one 
from the HSLDA and one from the Concerned 
Women of America. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

CONCERNED WOMEN FOR AMERICA 
LEGISLATIVE ACTION COMMITTEE, 

Washington, DC, July 16, 2012. 

THE HONORABLE, 

U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR, On behalf of Concerned 
Women for America Legislative Action Committee’s 
(CWALAC) over 500,000 members, I 
urge you to reject ratification of the United 
Nations’ Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities (CRPD). 

CRPD is a feel-good attempt at limiting 
liberty for the United States abroad and at 
home. This treaty will hurt parents and 
caregivers of people with disabilities by subjecting 
them to UN oversight, regulations, 
and control. In doing this, a judge or other 
government official would be able to trump 
the parent’s wishes when it comes to education 
of their child with disabilities. 

While CWALAC is for protecting those 
with disabilities, Americans should be the 
ones making laws for America. If improvements 
are needed to the laws, that already 
are the leading examples of providing freedom 
and justice for persons with disabilities, 
it needs to be done within America’s legislature. 
Like other United Nation treaties, this 
will open the door for infringing upon our 
sovereignty by subjecting the United States 
to foreign, anti-American biases. 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7367 

Parents know what is in the best interest 
of their child, not the government or the 
United Nations. 

CWALAC will include a vote against this 
treaty on our scorecard for the 112th Congress. 


Sincerely, 
PENNY YOUNG NANCE, 

Chief Executive Officer and President. 

HSLDA, 
ADVOCATES FOR HOMESCHOOLING, 

November 20, 2012. 

Re Please Oppose the UN CRPD. 
HONORABLE SENATOR: We the below-signed 
leaders from forty national organizations 
represent millions of Americans. We respectfully 
urge the United States Senate to reject 
ratification of the United Nations’ Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
(CRPD). 
We are troubled that article 7 of this treaty, 
in establishing the ‘‘best interests of the 
child’’ legal standard, would override the 
traditional fundamental right of parents to 
direct the education and upbringing of their 
child with special needs. 
We are troubled that such a reduction in 
legal protection in cases of children with disabilities 
will create an atmosphere discriminatory 
against those children and their families. 
We are troubled that New Zealand’s Education 
Act of 1989, which has been held to 
conform to the CRPD, allows the Secretary 
of Education to force any child with special 
needs into government-run schools ‘‘if the 
Secretary thinks [the student] would be better 
off.’’ This transfers the right to direct a 
child’s education from fit and loving parents 
to an officer of the State, in contravention of 
American tradition and the International 
Declaration of Human Rights. Yet it accords 
with this treaty. 
We are troubled that accession to this 
treaty, despite assurances to the contrary, 
will lead to legal action against private individuals, 
as seen in the 2011 case of Bond v. 
United States. In this case, a woman was 
found guilty of violating the Chemical Weapons 
Convention Implementation Act, a federal 
law over a matter formerly of state jurisdiction, 
which was adopted as a direct result 
of the eponymous treaty. 
We are troubled that accession to this 
treaty would place our nation under the 
scrutiny and review of an international committee 
unelected by the American people, 
thus violating the vital principle of American 
self-government. 
For these and other reasons, we urge you: 
please vote against any effort to ratify the 
CRPD. 
Sincerely, 
Michael P. Farris President, 
ParentalRights.org; Phyllis Schlafly, 
Founder and President, Eag1e Forum; 
Dr. Richard Land, President, Ethics & 
Religious Liberty Commission, Southern 
Baptist Convention; Morton 
Blackwell, Chairman, The Weyrich 
Lunch; Tom McCluslry, Senior Vice 
President, Family Research Council 
Action; Tom Minnery, Executive Director, 
CitizenLink; Penny Young Nance, 
President and Chief Executive Officer, 
Concerned Women for America; Matt 
Staver, Founder and Chairman, Liberty 
Counsel; Erick Erickson, Editor, 
RedState.com; Mike Needham, Chief 
Executive Officer, Heritage Action for 
America; Austin Ruse, President, 
Catholic Family and Human Rights Institute 
(C-FAM); William J. Murray, 
Chairman, Religious Freedom Coalition; 
Jim Backlin, Vice President for 
Legislative Affairs, Christian Coalition 

of America; Gary A. Marx, Executive 
Director, Faith and Freedom Coalition; 
Al Cardenas, Chairman, American Conservative 
Union; J. Michael Smith, 
President, Home School Legal Defense 
Association; Janice Shaw Crouse, 
Ph.D., Senior Fellow, Beverly LaHaye 
Institute; Deryl Edwards, President, 
Liberty Counsel Action; Dr. Jim 
Garlow, Chairman, Renewing American 
Leadership Action; Jeff Gayner, Chairman, 
Americans for Sovereignty. 

Mandi Campbell, Legal Director, Liberty 
Center for Law and Policy; Matt 
Smith, President, Catholic Advocate; 
Donna Rice Hughes, President, Enough 
Is Enough; Barbara Samuells, Co-
Founder, 912 Super Senior; C. Preston 
Noell, III, President, Tradition, Family, 
Property, Inc.; Richard and Susan 
Falknor, Publishers, Blue Ridge 
Forum; Lisa Miller, Founder, Tea 
Party WDC; Seton Motley, President, 
Less Government; Colin A. Hanna, 
President, Let Freedom Ring; David 
Stevens, MD, MA (Ethics); Chief Executive 
Officer, Christian Medical Association; 
Ron Pearson, President, Council 
for America; Dr. William Greene, 
Founder and President, 
RightMarch.com; Maureen Van Den 
Berg, Legislative Director, American 
Association of Christian Schools; Emmett 
McGroarty, Director, Preserve Innocence 
Initiative; Andy Blom, Executive 
Director, American Principles in 
Action; Mark Williamson, Founder and 
President, Federal Intercessors; Peter 

J. Thomas, Chairman, The Conservative 
Caucus; Teresa A. Citro, Chief 
Executive Officer, Learning Disabilities 
Worldwide, Inc.; Curt Levey, 
President, The Committee for Justice; 
William A. Estrada, Director, Generation 
Joshua. 
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I have 
been a consistent advocate for human 
rights around the world and support 
ensuring that the world is accessible to 
those with disabilities. However, I do 
not support the cumbersome regulations 
and potentially overzealous international 
organizations with anti-American 
biases that infringe upon American 
sovereignty. 

If we had not passed what I consider 
to be the gold standard for the disabled—
and I do remember at that time 
the activity of the Senator from Massachusetts 
very strongly supporting it. 
But we have done our job. Other nations 
maybe haven’t, but in our case I 
think we are looked upon by the outside 
as doing the responsible thing 
within our Nation: taking care of our 
own disabled. 

Mr. KERRY. Would the Senator yield 
for a question? 
Mr. INHOFE. I would be glad to respond 
to a question. 

Mr. KERRY. The Senator has raised 
the specter of somehow there would be 
a change in this treaty at some point 
that might affect America. Is the Senator 
not aware that any change to a 
treaty, in order to go into effect and 
have any impact on the United States, 
would require the advice and consent of 
the United States Senate? 

Mr. INHOFE. Yes, I do understand 
that. 

Mr. KERRY. Without the advice and 
consent of the Senate, no change could 
possibly impact the United States. 

Mr. INHOFE. But I would also say 
that the bureaucrats who would be running 
the program would have points of 
clarification where it is otherwise 
vague, and I think that could happen. 
And the point I am making here is we 
don’t need to do that when we have our 
own here. 

I understand there is a difference of 
opinion on this, and there are a lot of 
emotions. I saw in this morning’s Roll 
Call magazine all the people lined up 
here with the distinguished Senator 
from Massachusetts. It doesn’t say 
anything in the article, but it certainly 
attacks the emotions of individuals. 

So I am not satisfied they would not 
interfere or through their clarifications 
could change the intent. And 
even if they don’t, we have taken care 
of our problem here. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, it is important 
in this kind of debate as we 
make a judgment with the Senators 
that we base our judgment on facts and 
on the reality. The Senator has suggested 
he is opposed to this treaty because 
an outside group could impose its 
will on the United States of America. 
What he has just acknowledged is they 
can’t do that because it would require 
the advice and consent of the Senate. 

But, secondly, is the Senator aware 
that Senator RISCH asked the Justice 
Department whether the Court interpreted 
the effect of a nonself-executing 
declaration—which is in this treaty? 
And the response is, the Court said: 
The United States ratified the international 
covenant on civil and political 
rights on the express understanding 
that it was not self-executing. And so 
it did not create obligations enforceable 
in the Federal courts. 

So the Supreme Court of the United 
States has held that the very standard 
being applied in this treaty, that it is 
not self-executing, means nobody has 
access to any court. There is no enforceable 
right against anybody in 
America created in this treaty. 

Mr. INHOFE. To answer the Senator, 
I am not aware of the specific Risch request 
and what kind of response it 
drew. 

I would only say this: It is important 
to understand that while the distinguished 
Senator from Massachusetts 
and I differ on most of these treaties— 
we had the same disagreement on the 
Law of the Sea treaty. The question is, 
in my opinion, our sovereignty. I believe 
this infringes upon our sovereignty. 


With that, I yield the floor. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I yield 5 
minutes to the Senator from Illinois. 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, let me 
thank Senator KERRY, Senator 
MCCAIN, Senator LUGAR, and so many 
others who have brought this matter to 
the floor. 

It was 22 years ago when an historic 
event took place on the floor of this 
Senate which changed the United 
States of America. It was 22 years ago 
when we passed the Americans with 
Disabilities Act, and we said a disability 
should not disqualify you or 


S7368 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

limit you in terms of your opportunity 
as an American. 

Some people thought: This is obvious, 
everyone knows. But what was 
also obvious was there was discrimination 
taking place all across this great 
land. We removed that barrier to discrimination. 
And in passing the Americans 
with Disabilities Act, we stepped 
forward as a Nation. 

Was there fear and concern? Of 
course. I can recall going to Green 
County in rural Illinois and walking in 
Carrollton into City Hall, and they 
said: Does this mean we have to build 
a new restroom for the disabled? The 
answer was, Yes, and curb cuts, and 
other changes that seem so superficial 
to many but mean literally whether a 
disabled person can be part of America. 

What we did 22 years ago, though, 
wasn’t novel. Because if you look at 
the course of American history, I think 
we have distinguished ourselves and 
successive generations by expanding 
the reach of freedom and opportunity. 
Think about how many times we have 
done that. 

If you go back to the earliest days of 
this great Nation when older white 
men sat together and decided who 
would rule America, they weren’t 
thinking about those of color; they 
weren’t thinking about women; they 
weren’t thinking about the disabled; 
they sure weren’t thinking about those 
who weren’t property owners. No. It 
was a pretty elite group that would 
form our democracy. And then successive 
generations of Americans decided 
that if democracy meant anything, if 
America meant anything, we needed to 
expand that reach of opportunity each 
generation. 

The bloodiest experience of course 
was in the Civil War, when 600,000 
Americans were killed in the course of 
a war that went on for years and could 
have divided us once and for all as a 
Nation. But it didn’t. With the leadership 
of Abraham Lincoln and the inspiration 
of so many others and the blood, 
sweat, tears, and lives of the victims, 
we saved this Republic. We ended slavery. 
We created an opportunity, which 
still took us years and years to become 
a reality—a reality we are still working 
for today. 

So now comes this treaty to the 
floor, and this treaty says to the world: 
What we did 22 years ago as a Nation is 
something we are proud to stand behind. 
It is basically an ideal that we 
have created an America that we want 
to export to the world. As we reflect on 
this debate—and you have heard some 
of those who oppose it—it is interesting 
the approach they are taking. 
They are fearful of change. They are 
fearful of what the expansion of opportunity 
for the disabled might mean to 
America. 

Senator KERRY has made the point 
very clearly: This convention, this 
treaty, will not require the United 
States to change any law. And if any 
changes are to be made in the future, 
they will be made with the workings of 

Congress and the President. This treaty, 
this convention, will not force that 
change. 

We meet all of the standards that are 
established in this convention when it 
comes to disabilities, and President 
George Herbert Walker Bush, a Republican, 
when he negotiated and crafted 
this treaty, said as much. Of course 
there are those who still question it. 
But, remember, every time we have 
opened this door of opportunity in 
America, every time we have expanded 
this definition of democracy to include 
another group that was being at least 
partially if not fully excluded, there 
have always been voices of concern and 
worry. 

There have been voices of those who 
have said maybe we are not ready for 
that much change. They would say: Oh, 
I am not opposed to people of color, but 
if you force every hotel and restaurant 
across America in interstate commerce 
to open their doors, that may be going 
to far. We have always heard those 
voices and, after listening patiently, 
we have ignored them and moved forward 
with the new definition of freedom 
in this country, a new definition 
of opportunity, and that is what this 
does. 

As we come together on the floor of 
the Senate, as we gather to discuss this 
historic treaty and what it means to us 
and our future, there is a reception 
taking place across the street. It is a 
reception for people with disabilities, 
and they are honoring one of our own: 
a man who served this country and this 
Senate in an exceptional way. His 
name is Bob Dole, of Russell, KS, who 
served in World War II, was severely 
disabled, came home uncertain of his 
future but dedicated his life to public 
service. 

I don’t know how many weeks or 
months or years are left in Bob Dole’s 
life, but he has made the passage of 
this convention on disabilities his life’s 
work of the moment. We owe it to Bob 
Dole and to all of the disabled veterans 
like him who stand with locked arms, 
begging us to pass this convention—we 
owe it to the disabled people across 
America and around the world to stand 
once again for the rights of the disabled 
and for expanding opportunity, 
not just in America but across the 
world. 

People say we are an exceptional nation. 
There is a little bit of egotism in 
that statement, but I believe it is factual 
that America is an exceptional nation 
when it steps forward in the belief 
that freedom and liberty and opportunity 
should be for everyone within 
our country and around the world. 

Today is our chance. Let no argument 
over some minor political issue 
stop us from focusing on the reality 
that what we are doing is historic, not 
just for America but for the world. We 
owe it not just to Bob Dole, we owe it 
to the disabled veterans and the disabled 
community to stand and say to 
the world: Join us, join us in expanding 
the reach of opportunity to those who 
have been left behind. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. KERRY. I reserve the remainder 
of my time. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Utah. 

Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I rise today 
to speak in opposition to the ratification 
of the United Nations Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 
I understand it is a sensitive 
topic, one about which many of my 
constituents on both sides of the issue 
have strong feelings. 

Certainly most of us, if not all of us, 
have a family member or friend with a 
disability, and all of us live in a society 
that includes the disabled as highly 
valued members of our communities. 

I have heard from advocacy groups 
consisting of people who hope and believe 
that this treaty will protect disabled 
Americans as they travel abroad 
and as they go about their lives. But I 
have also heard from parents of disabled 
children who are concerned that 
this treaty, in adherence to the ‘‘best 
interests of the child’’ standard in article 
7, will threaten their rights as a 
parent to determine the best education, 
treatment, and care for their 
disabled children. Proponents of this 
treaty will dismiss those concerns as 
myth, but I simply cannot support a 
treaty that threatens the right of parents 
to raise their children with the 
constant looming threat of State interference. 


If this vote and this treaty were in 
fact about protecting the rights of 
Americans with disabilities, then I 
might have a different position and the 
debate today would take on a very different 
tone. But this treaty is ultimately 
not about protecting the rights 
of Americans with disabilities because 
this treaty simply has no enforcement 
mechanism to protect those rights, the 
rights of disabled Americans, including 
veterans, who might travel to countries 
such as China or Russia or Mali or 
any other country that might choose 
to adopt this treaty. 

If the Senate desires to protect the 
rights of disabled Americans who travel 
abroad, then this Senate would do 
better to encourage other nations to 
model their own reforms, their own internal 
legal structures after the Americans 
with Disabilities Act which, 20 
years after its passage, still sends a 
message that disabled Americans will 
always have fair access to housing, employment, 
and education in this Nation. 


I have mentioned a few things the 
treaty does not do. Now I would like to 
mention a few things the treaty does 
do that causes me some concern. First, 
article 34 establishes a committee, a 
committee on the rights of persons 
with disabilities. This committee will 
establish its own rules of procedure, 
and parties to the treaty are required 
to submit reports to the committee 
every 4 years. 

In general, U.N. human rights treaty 
committees have made demands of 
state parties that fall well outside of 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7369 

the legal, social, economic, and cultural 
traditions and norms of state parties. 
Sometimes their recommendations 
also fall far afield from the stated 
topics of concern within the individual 
treaties. For example, the U.N. Convention 
on the Elimination of Discrimination 
Against Women, or 
CEDAW, as it is sometimes known, included 
a recommendation that China 
decriminalize prostitution. 

The U.N. Committee on Racial Discrimination 
went to great lengths to 
scold the United States on its detention 
policy at Guantanamo Bay. These 
recommendations often fall well beyond 
or are even in direct conflict with 
the treaty’s goals. 

Article 7 of this treaty provides a 
‘‘best interests of the child’’ standard 
stating: 

In all actions concerning children with disabilities, 
the best interests of the child shall 
be a primary consideration. 

We all want to support the best interests 
of the child, every child. But I and 
many of my constituents, including 
those who homeschool their children or 
send their children to private or religious 
schools, have doubts that a foreign, 
U.N. body, a committee operating 
out of Geneva, Switzerland, should decide 
what is in the interests of the 
child at home with his or her parents 
in Utah or in any other State in our 
great Union. 

Article 4 of this treaty obligates the 
United States to recognize economic, 
social, and cultural entitlements as 
rights under domestic U.S. law. The 
Senate, in my opinion, has not adequately 
investigated how this standard 
will affect domestic U.S. Federal and 
State law. We have had one hearing on 
this issue that included both proponents 
and opponents of the treaty 
but did not substantively address my 
concerns about this standard, about 
this significant addition to what would 
become the law of the land of the 
United States of America. 

For these and other reasons I must 
oppose the U.N. Convention on the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 
and I encourage my colleagues to do 
the same. 

Mr. KERRY. Will the Senator yield 
for a question? 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Massachusetts. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I listened 
carefully to the Senator, and I understand 
there are colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle who have concerns 
about the United Nations, and I respect 
that. We have had these fights before, 
but I am having difficulty finding 
where the threat that the Senator has 
described gains any reality. 

Specifically, with respect to children, 
the Senator mentioned the question of 
a committee being created, and sometimes 
committees make recommendations 
outside of the purview of something. 
That may be true. But when 
have words, I ask the Senator—when 
have words or suggestions that have no 
power, that cannot be implemented, 

that have no access to the courts, that 
have no effect on the law of the United 
States and cannot change the law of 
the United States—when has that ever 
threatened anybody in our country? 

Mr. LEE. Whatever the United States 
ratifies—— 

Mr. KERRY. Does the Senator agree 
that there is no power to change our 
law? 

Mr. LEE. No. I do not agree with 
that. 

Mr. KERRY. Can the Senator show 
where it is specifically when the Supreme 
Court has held this is not self-
executing, there is no access to American 
courts; when it is clear by the 
statements of the treaty itself there is 
no law of the United States that is 
changed? When Attorney General 
Thornburgh, who helped to negotiate 
this treaty on behalf of President 
George Bush, says there is no change in 
law, what is it that the Senator suddenly 
has that suggests otherwise that 
has any basis in fact? 

Mr. LEE. First of all, whenever we 
ratify a treaty it becomes the law of 
the land under article VI of the U.S. 
Constitution. Secondly, whenever a 
body of law, whether embodied in U.N. 
convention or otherwise, becomes part 
of the corpus of customary international 
law, that often makes its way 
into U.S. judicial opinions. Is it direct? 
No. Does it directly undo any statute? 
No. But that doesn’t mean it has no effect. 
If it had no effect we would not be 
here debating it today. It is the type of 
effect we worry about. 

The Senator and I see things differently 
as far as what type of effect it 
might have. But that is not to say it 
has no effect. We should not be ratifying 
a treaty that we think might offset 

U.S. law as it exists now. We believe 
this could have that impact. Exactly 
where that is going to come up, I cannot 
prove to the Senator where that is 
going to happen. But it does have some 
impact, and when we ratify a treaty we 
make it the law of the land. 
Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I ask the 
Senator further, I know he is a good 
student of law, practitioner of law. I 
believe he understands that a treaty 
does not become customary international 
law just because the United 
States or another country ratifies it. 
The Senator is aware of that, I assume? 

Mr. LEE. Yes, of course. It doesn’t 
become the law of the land just because 
it is in the treaty. But it often does. Its 
entry into customary international law 
can become facilitated by the U.S. ratification 
of it. 

Mr. KERRY. Again, the Senator has 
acknowledged that it does not become 
customary law; as a consequence, it 
has to somehow change. Within this— 
the Senator will agree that because the 
treaty adopts, in the body of the treaty, 
the statement that this is not self-
executing and the Supreme Court has 
held that a nonexecuting treaty—let 
me just reference the specific case— 
Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain, 542 U.S. 692, a 
2004 case—the Supreme Court said it is 

dispositive. Nonself-executing declaration 
is dispositive. The Court noted 
that the United States ratified a prior 
thing then—and said, ‘‘it does not create 
obligations enforceable in Federal 
courts.’’ 

So there is no obligation created. The 
Senator then said: Why would we do 
this? Because we are the gold standard, 
and every other country is encouraged—
encouraged; we cannot require 
them, but they are encouraged—to 
raise their standard to U.S. standards. 

Why would the Senator resist? 
know the Senator and many of his colleagues 
argue we want other countries 
to be more like America. This is a treaty 
that, in fact, embraces that notion 
that they must be more like America. 
Why would the Senator not embrace 
that? 

Mr. LEE. If my distinguished colleague 
and friend, the senior Senator 
from Massachusetts is correct, that 
this would have no impact on our law, 
if in fact it does nothing, then why 
would we make it part of the U.S. law? 
Why would we make it part of the law 
by ratifying it and making it the law of 
the land under article VI of the Constitution? 


Mr. KERRY. I would say to the Senator, 
for a number of reasons: That allows 
the United States to sit at the 
table and actually advocate on behalf 
of our veterans, disabled veterans, who 
travel abroad. 

Mr. LEE. What table is it at which 
we have no seat because we have not 
ratified this treaty? What is it that we 
cannot do by having the most aggressive 
laws, the most robust laws protecting 
Americans with disabilities 
that we somehow achieve simply because 
we ratify this? If, in fact, that 
does nothing more than embrace that 
set of laws that we have actually 
passed, and if, in fact, as my friend 
says, this does nothing, then why do we 
ratify it? 

Mr. KERRY. No, let me make clear 
to the Senator, I have not said it does 
nothing. I have said it does not require 
a change in American law. I have said 
that it does not obligate the United 
States to a new set of standards or anything 
different from what we do today. 
I have said it does not allow anybody 
access to the Federal courts. That is 
different from saying it doesn’t do anything. 
If it didn’t do anything, I would 
not be here either. Nor would George 
Bush have signed this. Nor would 
George Herbert Walker Bush have 
begun the negotiations. 

This is not a Democrat-inspired treaty. 
This is a universally accepted set of 
principles about how we would like to 
see people in the rest of the world treat 
people with disabilities. 

There is more to be said about that, 
and there is more to be said. I want my 
colleagues to speak about why we are 
here. 

Let me recognize, if I can, the Senator 
from Arizona?—no, I will hold off 
on that, if I may. 

Let me recognize the Senator from 
New Mexico for 5 minutes. 


S7370 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
MANCHIN). The Senator from New Mexico 
is recognized. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. 
President, I thank Senator KERRY for 
the recognition. I appreciate it. I have 
been an earlier supporter of the ratification 
of this important treaty. I am 
pleased to have worked with Senators 
DURBIN, MCCAIN, HARKIN, COONS, and 
BARRASSO. In particular, I want to 
thank the chairman and ranking member 
on the Foreign Relations Committee. 
I thank all of these fine Senators 
for their bipartisan work on this 
bill. 

We still have work to do to improve 
our treatment and acceptance of disabled 
persons. But through the Americans 
with Disabilities Act, the United 
States has been at the forefront of protecting 
the dignity of people with disabilities. 
This treaty will help expand 
American values and leadership 
throughout the world. It is a vital step 
forward in respecting the rights of the 
disabled. 

As a member of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, I am aware of the 
challenges many countries face. These 
challenges include supporting their disabled 
citizens. Our Nation has set the 
standard for improving access to buildings, 
technology, and other areas for 
the disabled. Without the United 
States accepting its leadership role, it 
is possible that different standards 
could be adopted internationally. As 
for one example, this would place disabled 
travelers at a disadvantage. They 
would be forced to deal with different 
standards while traveling overseas. 

In many countries there has been insignificant 
investment in infrastructure 
to improve access for the disabled, 
and in many cases there is a misunderstanding 
about what rights disabled 
persons should be afforded. Ratifying 
this treaty will help the United States 
clarify to the world that people with 
disabilities have dignity and that they 
are capable of living full and meaningful 
lives. 

For instance, article 6 of the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
addresses the issue of women 
with disabilities. The article provides 
that: 

State Parties shall take all appropriate 
measures to ensure the full development, advancement, 
and empowerment of women for 
the purpose of guaranteeing them the exercise 
and enjoyment of the human rights and 
fundamental freedoms set out in the present 
Convention. 

Many countries are falling short in 
protecting the rights of women. It is 
tragic that so many women are subject 
to human rights abuses in a number of 
countries. Secretary of State Clinton 
has made empowering women an important 
part of our diplomatic priorities, 
and I support her efforts. 

Fortunately for the United States, 
we do not need to implement additional 
legislation in order to be in full 

compliance with the convention. Laws 
such as the Civil Rights Act, Title IX, 
the Family and Medical Leave Act 
strengthen the U.S. position in the 
convention, and our leadership could 
lead to other countries adopting similar 
protections for disabled women. 

Most importantly, I am reminded of 
the veterans who have returned from 
the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
These brave veterans have served in all 
the places we have asked them to go. 
They have advanced the interests and 
ideals of the United States. We owe 
them a debt for their service. Many of 
them have returned with severe 
wounds, some requiring a lifetime of 
care. 

I wish to read a statement from one 
of the veterans who appeared in front 
of the Foreign Relations Committee. 
John Lancaster is a disabled attorney 
and marine veteran. This is what he 
said: 

In 1968, I arrived in Vietnam during the Tet 
Offensive, assigned to the 1st Battalion, 27th 
Marines as an Infantry Platoon Commander. 
Five months later, I was shot and injured in 
a firefight. After months of rehabilitation, I 
arrived back home in Western New York a 
disabled veteran. Although my friends and 
family welcomed me home, society did not 
receive me quite as well. While there was 
certainly tension around the politics of the 
Vietnam war, it was the inaccessibility of 
my environment that made me feel the least 
welcome. I returned to a country not ready 
to receive me as a man who now used a 
wheelchair. 

That was the reality that an honored 
soldier had to overcome until the 
United States improved its laws to protect 
the disabled, and it is still a reality 
in many places overseas, places 
where our veterans and other disabled 
citizens will likely travel in the future 
for either business or pleasure. We 
must ratify this treaty because protecting 
the rights of the disabled is the 
right thing to do in the United States 
of America, and it is the right thing to 
do throughout the world. 

Again, I thank Senator KERRY and 
Senator LUGAR for their hard work on 
this treaty. We look forward to our colleagues 
voting for it in a short hour 
from now. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. KERRY. How much time remains? 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Twenty-
seven minutes still remains. 

Mr. KERRY. How much on the opponent’s 
side? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. About 
the same. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I yield 4 
minutes to the Senator from Delaware, 
Mr. COONS. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Delaware. 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I also 
thank Senator KERRY for his chairmanship 
on the Foreign Relations Committee 
and his leadership on this very 
important issue. I thank Senator 
LUGAR as well. Both Senators, in combination, 
led strongly on this important 
issue. 

Let me briefly add 2 minutes to the 
chorus on this floor today. First, as to 
the Senators who have spoken pointedly 
about their fears and their concerns 
about home schooling. I listened 
to their arguments while I was the Presiding 
Officer. Senator INHOFE of Oklahoma 
spoke passionately about his 
youngest daughter who homeschools 
her kids and about their fears that 
somehow this convention would hand 
the power to an unelected group of bureaucrats 
to direct the schooling of 
children in Oklahoma. 

I heard Senator LEE of Utah add a 
question to that negative chorus. He 
said, I have justifiable doubts that a 

U.N. committee in Geneva can judge 
the best interests of children in Utah. 
I agree. This convention does nothing 
to empower an international convention 
of bureaucrats to direct the 
schooling of children in Delaware, West 
Virginia, Indiana, or in Massachusetts. 

I am, frankly, upset that they have 
succeeded in scaring the parents who 
homeschool their children all over this 
country. My own office has gotten dozens 
of calls and letters demanding that 
I vote against this convention. As a 
matter of international law and as a 
matter of U.S. law, this convention 
does nothing to change the home 
schooling of children in America; rather, 
it does something positive. 

The Americans with Disabilities Act, 
which was led so brilliantly in its ratification 
by Senator TOM HARKIN and 
Senator Robert Dole, who was a central 
architect in the passage in this 
Chamber, stands as a great accomplishment 
in this country in our steady 
progress toward freedom and inclusion. 
This convention, ratified by this Senate, 
would allow our voice to be heard 
in an international forum all over the 
world. A billion citizens of this world 
live with disabilities every day, and 
our voice deserves to be heard. 

When we open the Senate every day, 
we say the Pledge of Allegiance. At the 
end of it, we hold up to the world our 
standards: Liberty and justice for all. 
In this country, the Americans with 
Disabilities Act says we have accomplished 
real progress toward liberty for 
the disabled and justice for all. By ratifying 
this convention, our voice would 
be heard on these vital issues all over 
the world. It is a voice that deserves to 
be heard. I urge my colleagues to ratify 
the convention. 

With that, I yield the floor. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, how 
much time do we have? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Almost 
24 minutes. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I yield 5 
minutes to the Senator from Iowa. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Iowa. 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, first I 
thank Senator KERRY, Senator LUGAR, 
and Senator MCCAIN for their great 
leadership and their dogged persistence 
in making sure we can get this treaty 
through the committee and to the 
floor. It has been inspirational to 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7371 

watch them work together in a bipartisan 
fashion to bring us to this point. 
I hope we don’t lose that in terms of 
the vote. 

I just came over from the Dirksen 
building where we had a wonderful 
ceremony honoring former Senator Bob 
Dole. Some time ago I went back and I 
read Senator Dole’s maiden speech on 
the Senate floor, dated April 14, 1969. 

Mr. President, I commend these remarks 
to my colleagues. 

Senator Dole spoke of the future of 
people with disabilities in America and 
what we need to do to change our society. 
That was in 1969. It was 21 years 
later when we passed the Americans 
with Disabilities Act. The country has 
changed so much for the better because 
of that. 

We are sitting here now with a convention 
by the U.N. which basically 
says to the rest of the world: You have 
to do what America did. In establishing 
this convention, the U.N. was informed 
by the Americans with Disabilities 
Act, and a lot of it is based upon what 
we did here. 

As the committee showed, not one of 
our laws or anything has to be 
changed. Not one. We are the best in 
the world at this. Yet what this convention 
gives us is a seat at the table. 
When other countries have signed on to 
the treaty, it gives us a seat at the 
table to be able to work with other 
countries and to help them upgrade 
their laws so that people with disabilities 
have more opportunities in other 
countries. Why would we deny ourselves 
a seat at the table when we have 
been a leader in this effort for so long? 

I listened to the speeches by both 
Senator INHOFE from Oklahoma and 
Senator LEE from Utah. These are unfounded 
fears. I repeat, there is nothing 
in there that is going to allow anyone 
from the United Nations to take a 
child away from a family or tell a family 
they cannot homeschool a kid or 
anything such as that. There is nothing 
in there. These are totally unfounded 
fears. We should not be driven by unfounded 
fears. We should be driven by 
what we know of our experience, what 
we have done, what the wording of the 
convention is, and the fact that none of 
our laws has to be changed because of 
it. 

The Senator from Utah made the 
point that we all know people with disabilities. 
We have family members or 
friends, and we value them. We truly 
do value people with disabilities in our 
society. Well, if we truly value them, 
why don’t we listen to them? 

There are over 300 disability rights 
groups that support this. Not one said 
they won’t support it. So if we value 
them, why don’t we listen to them? Do 
we want to keep patronizing people 
with disabilities and say, you are all 
right, but we won’t listen to you because 
we know what is best for you? 
We don’t know what is best for people 
with disabilities. We know who knows 
what is best for people with disabilities: 
It is people with disabilities. 
They all said this is important. 

There are 300 disability organizations 
that asked us to support this ratification. 
I think we should listen to them 
and get their advice. Think about what 
the disabilities community here in 
America could do with that seat at the 
table and how we can work with other 
countries to help them upgrade their 
laws. I have a hard time understanding 
why people would be driven by unfounded 
fears to vote against this with 
all of the evidence from 22 years of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act, including 
the hearings held by Senator 
KERRY and Senator LUGAR which 
brought out all the information and 
pointed out that not one of our laws 
has to be changed at all. In the face of 
all of that evidence, someone will vote 
on the basis of an unfounded fear. 

I remember when we passed the 
Americans with Disabilities Act in 
1990. It took a long time. There were a 
lot of fears out there. There were fears 
of: Oh, my gosh, we are going to have 
to do this and that. Buses have to have 
lifts on them, and we have to build 
those curb cuts. What, kids with disabilities 
get to go to school? 

They were unfounded fears. We became 
a stronger and better society because 
of it. This treaty will make us a 
better world in which to live for all 
people and not just those who have disabilities. 


I urge all of my colleagues, don’t give 
in to unfounded fears. Take the good 
advice of Senator Bob Dole, President 
Bush, former Congressman Steve Bartlett, 
JOHN MCCAIN, JOHN KERRY, and 
DICK LUGAR, people who have been in 
the trenches on this, and take the advice 
of the disability community here 
and abroad. If you will do that, we will 
win a resounding victory today. 

Thank you, Mr. President. 

Mr. DEMINT. Mr. President, I rise 
today to speak about the United Nations 
Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities. 

As a member of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, I have participated 
in the hearings and debates on this 
treaty, and I understand the aspirations 
of the groups who support it. But 
I have serious concerns about reaching 
those goals through a legally binding 
United Nations treaty. 

Other U.N. organizations have failed 
to achieve their stated purposes and 
actively work against the interests of 
the United States. 

Not even a week ago, the United Nations 
General Assembly voted overwhelmingly 
to upgrade the Palestinian 
Authority to ‘‘non-member observer 
state’’ over the objections of the 
United States and Israel. This is a 
breach of the Oslo accords and will 
hurt the Middle East peace process. 
Secretary Clinton called it ‘‘unfortunate 
and counterproductive.’’ 

The U.N. Human Rights Council includes 
notable human rights violators 
such as Cuba, China, and Russia. These 
countries have made little progress improving 
the rights of their citizens, and 
nearly 40 percent of the council’s coun


try-specific human-rights condemnations 
are against Israel. 

More worrisome, convention commit-
tees—such as the Committee on the 
Elimination of Racial Discrimination 
and the Convention on the Elimination 
of All forms of Discrimination Against 
Women—have a track record of overstepping 
their authority and advocating 
positions contrary to American 
laws and values. 

In the past, these committees have 
supported giving voting rights to felons, 
the decriminalization of prostitution, 
gender quotas, and increased access 
to abortion. 

Overly broad language included in 
this treaty would likely allow the U.N. 
to meddle in many of our domestic 
matters. International bureaucrats 
working with the U.N. should not be 
able to influence how the United States 
creates and implements laws for the 
disabled, especially when members 
come from countries with lower human 
rights standards than our own. 

The purpose of any treaty should be 
to advance specific security or economic 
interests that make us a stronger 
and safer nation. This treaty does 
neither. 

Last week on the floor, Leader REID 
argued that we must ratify this treaty 
to ‘‘take the high ground’’ on these 
issues with the rest of the world. But 
the United States does not have to join 
a U.N. convention or any other organization 
to give ourselves legitimacy and 
moral authority in the world. 

For decades, the United States has 
been the global leader and champion 
for persons with disabilities. We must 
continue to work hard to improve the 
lives of disabled citizens in our country. 
Encouraging respect for disabled 
persons is important and the goals of 
this convention are admirable. 

This convention will do nothing to 
improve the rights of Americans in the 
United States. We have little evidence 
to suggest that joining this convention 
and its committee will ensure that 
other countries improve their protection 
of disabled people. Of the 126 member 
countries, this convention’s committee 
has only issued recommendations 
to a handful. 

Portions of this convention also concern 
reproductive health, the rights of 
families, and the use of the treaty in 
our courts. 

Attempts were made in the committee 
to clarify some of these sections 
and protect American sovereignty, but 
those attempts were defeated. 

These issues should be addressed by 
individual U.S. States and local governments, 
not an international bureaucracy 
where Americans have no 
elected representation. 

We should never cede the authority 
of these matters to an international organization. 
President Washington’s 
warning in his farewell address bears 
repeating here. He said: 

The great rule of conduct for us, in regard 
to foreign nations, is, in extending our commercial 
relations, to have with them as little 


S7372 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

political connection as possible. So far as we 
have already formed engagements, let them 
be fulfilled with perfect good faith. Here let 
us stop. 

His words serve as a compelling argument 
against this treaty today. 

We should be wary of international 
alliances and only work within them 
when they will strengthen America or 
make her safer. 

I encourage my colleagues to reject 
this treaty and address this important 
issue in a format that does not endanger 
the sovereignty of the United 
States. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, the 

U.N. Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities has the admirable 
goal of advancing the interests 
and rights of the disabled across the 
world. However, I have great concerns 
about acceding to this convention. I 
am also disappointed that the Senate 
will dedicate just 2 hours of debate to 
consider this convention, without the 
ability for any Senators to offer or consider 
worthy amendments. 
U.S. leadership in advancing and 
safeguarding the rights of the disabled 
is unmatched. The United States is the 
leader on disability issues. It’s for this 
reason that the convention is modeled 
on the disability rights laws of the 
United States. However, I have serious 
doubts that simply joining the convention 
will lead to greater U.S. influence 
in promoting disability rights abroad. 
The ability of the United States to lead 
on this issue is not and should not be 
dependent upon joining this convention. 
We can lead on disability rights 
abroad because we lead on disability 
rights at home. 
Joining this convention will have no 
impact on the disability rights of 
Americans in this country. Americans 
with disabilities are already afforded 
the rights contained with the treaty. 
Many Federal and State laws protect 
the rights of the disabled, including the 
Americans with Disabilities Act. Even 
proponents of the convention acknowledge 
that it will not enhance the rights 
of individuals with disabilities in 
America. 

We have made great strides in disability 
policy in America. Laws which 
I authored, such as the Family Opportunity 
Act and Money Follows the Person, 
not only gave the disabled health 
care coverage but gave them real self-
determination in that health care coverage. 
In the future, I will continue to 
work to protect coverage of the disabled 
during difficult budgetary times 
and work to find solutions for the disabled 
that allow for coordination of 
support services across all an individual’s 
needs. While I respect the concerns 
and goals of supporters of this 
treaty, we should not let this take the 
place of focusing on problems and solutions 
here in America. 

However, becoming a party to the 
convention would subject the United 
States to the eighteen-member Committee 
on the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities. This committee is created 

to monitor the implementation of the 
convention and provide conclusions 
and recommendations with regard to 
State Party’s treaty reports. I have serious 
concerns about the infringement 
upon U.S. sovereignty by a committee 
tasked with providing criticisms and 
recommendations for the United States 
on our disability laws. 

Further, the convention raises additional 
concerns by unnecessarily including 
references in the area of ‘‘sexual 
and reproductive health’’ and the 
‘‘best interests of the child.’’ These 
provisions call into question the purpose 
of the convention regarding abortion 
rights and the fundamental rights 
of parents to determine how best to 
raise their children. 

It is for these reasons, along with the 
decision of the majority leader to shut 
out the rights of Senators by prohibiting 
the consideration of any amendments, 
that I oppose this convention. 

Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, my late 
grandfather was one of the most influential 
people in my life. Until his death 
when I was 13, ‘‘Papa´’’ was a mentor 
who spent countless hours on our front 
porch with me discussing history, politics 
and baseball. As a Cuban immigrant, 
he knew how special America is, 
and it is one lesson from him that I 
will never forget. 

Papa´ was also my hero for the way he 
lived his life. Stricken by polio as a 
boy, he would be disabled for the rest 
of his life. He would often walk miles 
to work at a cigar factory to provide 
for his family. Because of his disability, 
walking was difficult for him 
and he would often return home at 
night with his clothes dirty from repeatedly 
falling to the ground. But he 
kept getting up, and lived a life that I 
admire and will never forget. Because 
of him, I knew from a very early age 
the inherent dignity and beauty evident 
in every disabled human being on 
earth, whether they were born with 
their disability or developed it in the 
course of their lives. 

The landmark Americans With Disabilities 
Act, enshrined into law many 
fundamental rights to help disabled 
people live life. As Americans, it 
should make us all proud because it is 
one reason the United States has set 
the gold standard in the world for disability 
rights. It has demonstrated to 
everyone else one more dimension of 
our exceptional people, ensuring that 
our disabled brothers and sisters have 
better opportunities to rise above their 
physical limitations to stake their 
claim on the American Dream. 

As the Senate considers the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
today, it is important to note 
that a failure to approve it would in no 
way diminish what we have accomplished 
in America on disability rights, 
just as its passage would not improve 
the laws affecting Americans with disabilities. 
Furthermore, nothing on this 
treaty compels other nations to raise 
their standards or in any way improve 
the care they afford to persons with 

disabilities. Therefore, I stand in opposition 
of its ratification today. 

The treaty’s supporters have argued 
that its passage will elevate disability 
rights abroad, to the benefit of disabled 
people not fortunate enough to live 
under laws like ours and also to disabled 
Americans when they travel. 
However, the United States already 
promotes disabled rights and better 
laws abroad through the State Department 
and our foreign embassies. The 
Americans With Disabilities Act, and 
subsequent improvements to it, should 
be the law upon which other countries 
base their own laws protecting their 
disabled people and aiming to make 
their lives better. 

I believe America’s example should 
lead the way on achieving stronger universal 
disability rights than the United 
Nations, the governing body entrusted 
to oversee this treaty’s implementation. 
The American example of millions 
of disabled Americans living their 
dreams is a stronger force to compel 
other countries to do the same than a 
United Nations body populated by such 
chronic human rights abusers as China 
and Russia, nations that fail to respect 
the fundamental rights of everyone, 
much less their disabled. 

When this treaty was originally negotiated, 
a bipartisan consensus existed 
that this treaty would not address 
abortion. This is an appropriate 
position when you consider that, too 
often, unborn children in the United 
States and across the world are aborted 
because their disabilities have been detected 
while in the womb. When the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
debated this issue in July, I offered an 
amendment to make clear this Convention 
does not create, endorse or promote 
abortion rights as reproductive 
health. I made clear its intent was not 
to change U.S. domestic laws on this 
matter. All my proposed change did 
was state very clearly that, at the end 
of the day, this Convention on the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities is 
about protecting persons with disabilities, 
regardless of their stage in life. 
Because this important change was not 
adopted and for all the reasons I have 
outlined here, I cannot support Senate 
ratification of this treaty. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President. The Senate 
today is considering the ratification 
of an important treaty that will 
further strengthen the United States’ 
longstanding role as a beacon of human 
rights around the world. I support ratification 
of the United Nations Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 
CRPD, and hope that this 
treaty, which enjoys bipartisan support, 
will be approved by the Senate 
today. 

I have long been a strong supporter 
of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 
ADA, which has served to protect the 
rights of disabled U.S. citizens for more 
than 2 decades. The CRPD is a natural 
extension of many of the core principles 
guided by the Americans with 
Disabilities Act. I believe that any person 
living with a disability, regardless 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7373 

of where they were born or where they 
reside, should be protected from discrimination 
and unfair treatment. 

President Obama signed the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
in 2009, and earlier this year, 
he submitted the treaty to the Senate 
for ratification. The Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee reported the 
CRPD to the full Senate in July, and it 
is right that the Senate is taking action 
on this important treaty before 
this Congress adjourns. Current U.S. 
law already provides a number of protections 
called for under the CRPD. 
The Foreign Relations Committee included 
in its reported treaty reservations, 
understandings, and a declaration 
which will allow the United States 
to be in full compliance with the treaty, 
without making changes to existing 

U.S. law. 
Like President Obama, I believe this 
convention serves a number of American 
interests, including encouraging 
protection of U.S. citizens and service-
members with disabilities who live or 
travel abroad, and assisting U.S. businesses 
by ensuring that their international 
counterparts are required to 
comply with similar laws. 

Around the world, 125 nations have 
signed the Convention on the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities, and are parties 
to this treaty. Its ratification is 
supported by both Democrats and Republicans, 
and by well over 300 religious 
organizations, health care centers, 
advocates for people with disabilities, 
and veterans’ organizations. Disability 
Rights Vermont and the 
Vermont Center for Independent Living 
are among those organizations supporting 
ratification. I hope all Senators 
will support this important treaty. 
It sends the right message to the 
rest of the world that the United 
States cares about the dignity of all 
people. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, today 
the United States Senate is considering 
a resolution to provide its advice and 
consent with respect to the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 
CRPD. At its heart, the Convention 
is a non-discrimination treaty, 
which requires that persons with disabilities 
have the same general rights 
as those without disabilities. 

I am grateful for the opportunities 
this Nation provided me as a young 
man who returned from World War II 
as an amputee. Those opportunities included 
a college and law degree, eventually 
serving the Territory and State 
of Hawaii. I was fortunate my injury 
did not hinder my dream to work for, 
and serve the people of Hawaii. 
Throughout my years in the Senate, I 
joined with my colleagues to advance 
non-discrimination initiatives that 
protect all Americans. In 1989, I was 
proud to join with my good friend Senator 
HARKIN as an original cosponsor of 
the Americans with Disabilities Act, 
ADA, in the Senate, and vote for its 
passage in 1990. The ADA, established 
in law, our Nation’s dedication to en


sure those born with disabilities, or 
those who suffer life changing disabilities, 
are individuals with dignity. Furthermore, 
that those individuals enjoy 
the same rights and opportunities all 
Americans are guaranteed under the 
Constitution. Unfortunately, this is 
not necessarily the case around the 
world. 

The ADA and its goals served as the 
model for the treaty resolution before 
us today. This Convention will help 
move countries toward protecting the 
rights of disabled individuals. Practically, 
it will allow the U.S. to engage 
other countries in the international 
arena to work toward the standards 
and accessibility here in the United 
States, which will benefit disabled 
Americans who work, live, and travel 
the world. We are fortunate U.S. law 
meets or exceeds the obligations of the 
CRPD, and that no implementing legislation 
is required. Our country stands 
up to protect the rights of the most 
vulnerable in our society. We cannot 
comprehend the mistreatment or simply 
the disregard of the lives of those 
with disabilities. Ratifying this treaty 
will reaffirm our country’s leadership 
and commitment to the basic human 
rights of disabled men, women, and 
children. I am pleased to join my colleagues 
in support of the ratification of 
the CRPD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Massachusetts. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I renew 
my request now. We have had about 
four successive Democrats speak. 
There is nobody here from the other 
side. I do not think it is fair to have 
our time docked as a result. So I suggest 
the absence of a quorum and ask 
unanimous consent that the time be 
charged to the opponents. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask 
that I be notified after 7 minutes. 

Mr. President, when the Senate gives 
its advice and consent to a treaty, it 
becomes the ‘‘supreme law of the land’’ 
on par with Federal statutes. This is 
Article VI, Clause 2 of the U.S. Constitution. 
It is in our Constitution. 
That is why we must take great care in 
ratifying treaties and doing so only if 
it advances U.S. interests at home or 
abroad. 

The overwhelming majority of constituent 
comments my office has received 
have been in opposition to the 
convention—approximately 1,000 letters 
in opposition; 40 letters or so in 
support. 

Moreover, I, along with 36 other Senators, 
joined a letter to the Senate 
leadership requesting that no treaties 

be brought to the floor during the 
lameduck session. 

A treaty is a powerful document, 
equal to or above statutory law. Historically, 
treaties are to regulate the 
relationship between sovereign nations. 
They do things like settle border 
disputes and create trade relations between 
those two nations. While treaties 
on occasion have blurred the line 
between international relations, the 
line, the principle still remains fundamentally 
intact. 

This Nation has never ratified a treaty 
of which the entire focus is to empower 
an international agency—here, 
the United Nations, an organization 
that truly is proving to be dysfunctional 
and often hostile to the most legitimate 
interests of the United 
States—to monitor the internal policies 
of the United States. This is particularly 
curious in that the United 
States has the world’s best record on 
disability issues. 

Se we are told, let’s ratify the treaty 
because we already meet, at least 
today, all the requirements of the treaty. 
This will set an example. In truth, 
we have already set an example. We 
lead the world. 

This treaty, however, has misdirected 
the focus of the United States 
and the world community away from 
nations who do little or nothing for the 
disabled and to direct blame first on 
this Nation. 

Of course, the United States has a 
most magnificent system of law. It is 
the foundation of our liberty, our prosperity, 
and our happiness. Thus, if we 
were to ratify this treaty, we can be 
sure that international hypocrites will 
soon demand that the United States do 
this or that. All the while, their countries 
will have been in full violation of 
virtually every provision of the treaty. 
Many other mischievous actions will 
certainly arise to bedevil our country, 
and we will have hypocritical meddlers 
complicating our internal disability efforts, 
as well as our internal social and 
health policies. I do not think this is 
necessary. 

Now, I agree that the United States 
and the world can do more to advance 
the cause of the disabled. I truly do. I 
recently visited the very fine Alabama 
School for the Deaf and Blind. I personally 
saw how inexpensive computers 
can transform the daily lives of the disabled. 
Deaf and blind can move from 
being disconnected to connected, from 
unemployed to highly productive. It 
was such a moving and positive experience 
to see what can be done today 
with the technology this world has. 

When one visits our magnificent 
military hospital at Walter Reed National 
Military Medical Center, one 
can see the devices that are used there 
on a regular basis to make the lives of 
those who have been injured better. 
The whole world will benefit if more of 
this technology is made available. 

The right way to advance assistance 
for the disabled worldwide is to be active 
internationally, to be on the front 


S7374 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

lines promoting these good techniques 
and policies, and to use more of our existing 
foreign aid for this purpose rather 
than wasting it, as we too often do, 
on corrupt governments that take it 
and do little for their people. I believe 
the State Department should strengthen 
its outreach in this important area. 
I have even drafted a law that would 
require them to establish such a department 
within their agency. As we 
spend billions yearly on aid, surely we 
can be more effective in ensuring that 
the equipment, devices and treatments 
that are life transfiguring are given 
more emphasis by our government. 

We ought to raise the level of priority 
we give to the disabled. 

Yes, I acknowledge that such expenditures 
are not purely a part of our Nation’s 
national security policy, but 
America has always responded to the 
call to be a force for good in the world. 

I just left a meeting 15 minutes ago 
with United Methodists from the North 
Alabama Conference who have a 
project to fight AIDS, HIV, and malaria 
in Africa. This is part of the 
American heritage, and we do this 
every day, and it should be done. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has used 7 minutes. 

Mr. SESSIONS. I thank the Presiding 
Officer. 

This is our heritage, a heritage that 
has proven to be a blessing to the 
world. We do not want to walk away 
from that. 

Another part of our heritage is the 
rule of law—that clear and strong understanding 
of the unique quality of 
national sovereignty. We are honest 
people. We are productive people. We 
are lawful people. We know that we 
will be able to be more prosperous and 
thus able to help others if we protect 
our economy from reckless, dangerous 
spending and the authority of our legal 
system from erosion. Thus, I conclude 
this treaty is unnecessary and, in fact, 
dangerous for our Nation. 

So let’s do more for the disabled 
worldwide. I will be supportive of that. 
But let’s do it without enmeshing our 
Nation into another binding international 
organization that will cause 
more grief than benefit. 

I will conclude with one more thing. 

I am coming to the view that we as a 
nation need to be more legally aware of 
the dangers of signing agreements with 
foreign nations that regulate internal 
affairs, even if we are not giving away 
direct powers over the United States. I 
do not see that is necessary. I think 
that is a bad step. I am opposed to 
that. I think that in the long run, we 
will have difficulties. 

I thank the Presiding Officer, yield 
the floor, and reserve the remainder of 
our time for my colleagues who I know 
want to speak on this matter. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I yield 
the Senator from Arizona 7 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I come 
to the floor with a bit of a heavy heart 

today because I think the Senate may 
not act to approve the Convention on 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 
I would say the issue is not going away. 
I think there are too many Americans 
and too many veterans organizations 
and too many people who are committed 
to this cause, that over time we 
may have every chance and every opportunity 
to succeed. 

I remind my colleagues that virtually 
every major veterans organization 
in America supports the treaty, 
people who represent those men and 
women who have fought and particularly 
try to assist those with disabilities 
that are the result of combat. 
They are AMVETS; the Air Force Sergeants 
Association; Air Force Women 
Officers Associated; the American GI 
Forum; the Association of the United 
States Navy; the Blinded Veterans Association; 
Disabled American Veterans; 
Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of 
America; Jewish War Veterans; the 
Military Officers Association of America; 
the National Association of Black 
Veterans; the National Guard Association 
of the United States; the National 
Military Family Association; Paralyzed 
Veterans of America; the American 
Legion; Veterans for Common 
Sense; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Veterans 
of Modern Warfare; VetsFirst, a 
program of the United Spinal Association; 
Vietnam Veterans of America; 
and the Wounded Warrior Project. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the statement of all these 
veterans organizations be printed in 
the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

VETERANS SUPPORT THE CONVENTION AS THE 
RIGHTS OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES 

Vote YES for the CRPD in 2012! In a letter 
of support for the disability treaty, 21 veterans 
service organizations highlight why 
the CRPD is important to them: 

The CRPD is important to veterans and 
servicemembers with disabilities because it 
embodies the principles of the Americans 
with Disabilities Act (ADA). Like the ADA, 
the CRPD supports equal treatment and non-
discrimination in access to rehabilitation, 
employment and educational opportunities. 
We support the principles of the ADA because 
it promotes empowerment of our nation’s 
veterans and servicemembers with disabilities 
by providing the opportunity to 
achieve independent living and inclusion 
into all aspects of society. 

As organizations that represent veterans 
and servicemembers and their families, we 
believe that the CRPD would remove barriers 
and allow American servicemembers 
and veterans with disabilities to work, serve, 
study, and live abroad. In part, barriers will 
be diminished due to changing attitudes 
around the world regarding people with disabilities. 
As a result of the changes occurring 
through the CRPD, servicemembers and 
veterans with disabilities will be able to continue 
leading active lives within the global 
community. 

VSOs that Support U.S. Ratification of the 
CRPD: AMVETS; Air Force Sergeants Association; 
Air Force Women Officers Associated; 
American GI Forum; Association of the 
United States Navy; Blinded Veterans Asso


ciation; Disabled American Veterans; Iraq 
and Afghanistan Veterans of America; Jewish 
War Veterans; Military Officers Association 
of America; National Association for 
Black Veterans; National Guard Association 
of the United States; National Military Family 
Association; Paralyzed Veterans of America; 
The American Legion; Veterans for Common 
Sense; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Veterans 
of Modern Warfare; VetsFirst, a program 
of United Spinal Association; Vietnam 
Veterans of America; Wounded Warrior 
Project. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I commend 
to my colleagues a very moving 
letter to the U.S. Senate from a very 
famous man, a Chinese dissident who 
was blinded, who recently was able to 
leave China, which was printed in the 
RECORD yesterday. 

I will not quote from his whole letter. 
He says: 

This treaty is making this idea real in significant 
ways around the world. Today there 
are over 1 billion people with disabilities, 
and 80 percent of them live in developing 
countries. Disability rights is an issue that 
the world cannot afford to overlook. When 
the United States enacted the Americans 
with Disabilities Act over 20 years ago, the 
idea of true equality for people with disabilities 
became a reality. Many nations have 
followed in America’s footsteps and are now 
coming together under shared principles of 
equality, respect and dignity for people with 
disabilities as entailed in the treaty. 

The United States, which was instrumental 
in negotiating this treaty, can continue 
to advance both its principles and 
issues of practical accessibility for its citizens 
and all people around the world and, by 
ratifying the treaty, so take its rightful 
place of leadership in the arena of human 
rights. 

That is what this is all about—American 
leadership, American leadership in 
the world. I don’t know how many millions 
of people around the world are deprived 
of the same rights that Bob Dole 
and TOM HARKIN and so many others 
made possible, but do I know this is an 
expression of American leadership 
throughout the world—I think an obligation 
America should embrace. 

I would like to read a statement by 
our distinguished former colleague and 
leader, Bob Dole. More than a dear 
friend, Bob remains an authentic hero 
to millions of his countrymen, someone 
whose personal example of wartime 
sacrifice was equaled—if such a thing is 
possible—by his service in this body. 
He is respected wherever people value 
political courage and civility. 

Bob Dole returned from World War II, 
one of the countless wounded warriors 
whose defense of our liberty curtailed 
his own. Gravely injured, disabled for 
life, he developed a unique personal understanding 
of his fellow Americans excluded 
from the mainstream. In the 
years that followed, Bob fought to ensure 
not only that no American would 
be relegated to the back of the bus but 
also, in the case of the disabled, that 
no one would be prevented from boarding 
the bus. 

Bob Dole has been our leader on the 
issue of disabilities from the moment 
he stepped foot into the Chamber. To 
Bob, it is unthinkable that Americans 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7375 

could not get over a curb or enter a 
school building or even watch a debate 
in this Chamber if they were in a 
wheelchair. 

On April 14, 1969, the same date he 
was injured in the hills of Italy 24 
years earlier, he made his maiden 
speech on the topic of Americans with 
disabilities. In every legislative initiative 
since then, Bob Dole has been a 
leader on behalf of people with disabilities, 
bills such as the Rehabilitation 
Act of 1973; the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act, IDEA; the Developmental 
Disabilities Act, and the 
Americans with Disabilities Act. He 
was responsible for including people 
with disabilities in the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 and for ensuring 
that people with disabilities are part of 
the State Department’s annual report 
on human rights around the world. 

After leaving this Chamber, Bob Dole 
prompted the Congress to pass the 
Ticket to Work and Work Incentives 
Improvement Act of 1999—breakthrough 
legislation on health care and 
employment for people with disabilities. 


This past year he has been instrumental 
in working with the administration 
and Congress to ensure bipartisan 
support for the Convention on the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities to 
reflect American leadership and values 
and safeguarding the rights of every individual 
in the world. 

I ask unanimous consent for an additional 
3 minutes to be added on to the 
time of the vote. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
TESTER.) Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent 
to have Bob Dole’s statement 
printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
SENATOR ROBERT J. DOLE, DECEMBER 4, 2012, 

STATEMENT ON THE SENATE VOTE ON THE 

CONVENTION ON THE RIGHTS OF PERSONS 

WITH DISABILITIES (CRPD) 

I’d like to thank my former colleagues, 
members of the Administration, and many 
friends whose efforts have brought about the 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities. In their diversity they reflect 
America itself—I’m thinking of people including 
our former colleagues Tony Coehlo, 
former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh, 
and former White House Counsel C. Boyden 
Gray—key leaders on the landmark and bipartisan 
1990 Americans with Disabilities 
Act. They have taken great pains to ensure 
that this treaty is in the best interest of our 
Nation, and reflective of the values that we 
all believe transcend any party label. I especially 
thank President George H.W. Bush for 
his indispensable leadership and support. 

The approaching vote on the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is 
a proud moment for the Senate, the latest 
chapter of an untold story including the 
Americans that say: no first class democracy 
can tolerate second class citizens. 

In recent years, we have recognized that 
people with disabilities are integral to our 
society, that we cannot afford to waste their 
talents, nor can we proclaim our beloved 
America demonstrably—the home of the 

brave, the land of the free—as we overlook 
the abilities that trump any disabilities. As 
the ranks of the disabled and their families 
swell, so does popular support for measures 
to ensure equality of access and opportunity. 
One way or another disability issues touch 
nearly every family in America. 

Eight years ago, in dedicating the National 
World War II Memorial on the Mall, I tried 
to put into words what makes America 
worth fighting for—if need be, dying for. I 
spoke of the American promise, imperfectly 
realized and too long delayed for some of our 
fellow citizens—but a promise of individual 
opportunity and universal justice for which 
we all aspire. ‘‘This is the golden thread that 
runs throughout the tapestry of our nationhood,’’ 
I said, ‘‘the dignity of every life, the 
possibility of every mind, the divinity of 
every soul.’’ In ratifying the CRPD, we can 
affirm these goals for Americans with disabilities. 
We can join with our allies in entrusting 
the blessings of freedom to millions 
outside our borders. I urge your support of 
this important treaty and I thank you for 
your consideration. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I rise today 
in opposition to the ratification of the 

U.N. Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities or the CRPD. 
The United States has a long and proud 
tradition of protecting human rights, 
especially those of the disabled. I do 
not believe we need to ratify an international 
convention to demonstrate 
our firm commitment in this area. 
CRPD ratification would do nothing 
to improve the lives of the disabled in 
the United States, and if other countries 
are looking for good examples of 
how to improve their laws, they could 
do no better than to refer to U.S. laws. 
Just as with many treaties before this 
one, the CRPD would offer cover to regimes 
that have no intention of actually 
helping their citizens, while needlessly 
tying the hands of countries 
such as the United States that have actually 
made great strides in this area. 

I take China as just one example. According 
to Human Rights Watch, Chinese 
citizens even suspected of having 
a mental disability can be arbitrarily 
committed to institutions because Chinese 
law offers almost no protections 
against involuntary civil commitment. 
Moreover, Beijing is now considering a 
draft mental health disability law that 
would ‘‘permit the indefinite involuntary 
detention, forced medication, and 
forced labor of persons suspected of 
having a mental disability.’’ Obviously, 
this is in direct contravention to both 
the spirit and the letter of the CRPD 
even though Beijing has ratified it—I 
repeat: even though Beijing has already 
ratified the treaty. So while this 
convention has no mechanism to force 
countries such as China to actually respect 
their disabled citizens, what it 
does do is allow their leaders to falsely 
present themselves as forward-leaning 
on disabled rights just as they continue 
to run roughshod over such protections 
at home. 

Supporters of this convention claim 
that ratifying it would allow our country 
to assume the moral high ground 

when it comes to addressing other 
countries’ gaps in disabilities rights. I 
would argue just the opposite. As I just 
mentioned, becoming a party to this 
convention would actually put us in 
the company of nations that are nowhere 
near the high ground on this 
issue, moral or otherwise. 

Moreover, we already have the most 
comprehensive disability rights laws 
and protections in the world, period. In 
fact, the U.S. record of disabilities 
rights-related laws stretches back 
more than four decades, unequivocally 
demonstrating our commitment and 
leadership in this area. That is why 
many nations look to us for guidance 
in developing their own disability laws 
and discrimination protections. We do 
not need a treaty to provide that guidance, 
obviously. 

For example, the European Union is 
looking to current U.S. law as a model 
for its own accessibility initiatives. In 
January of 2011, European Commission 
Vice President Viviane Reding discussed 
proposals for what is designated 
a ‘‘European Accessibility Act,’’ citing 
progress made in the United States 
under the provisions of the Americans 
with Disabilities Act of 1990,’’ which I 
was proud to support. Reding believes 
‘‘that the EU should learn from this 
positive experience and go ahead in Europe 
too.’’ 

The convention’s supporters also erroneously 
contend that U.S. ratification 
would result in tangible benefits 
for Americans with disabilities who 
choose to live, travel, or work abroad. 
They assert that it would allow the 
United States to have greater influence 
over disability rights in such areas as 
employment or accessibility among 
other states that are party to CRPD. I 
think this is far from certain. 

To be sure, Americans with disabilities 
face serious challenges when they 
travel abroad precisely because those 
nations’ laws are not as supportive as 
are those here in the United States— 
the matter I spoke of a moment ago. 
But it is the example we have set 
through our legislation, not ratification 
of this convention, that could improve 
their access, for example, to 
technology, as our Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 does, or accommodations 
that would be available, as 
the American Fair Housing Act does, 
for example. Only individual member 
states can draft and implement and enforce 
the type of wide-ranging laws 
that are necessary to actually protect 
the rights of persons with disabilities— 
laws, I might add, that are already in 
place here in the United States of 
America. 

We know all too well from experience 
with other treaties that states such as 
China routinely flout their treaty obligations. 
I believe it boils down to this: 
Countries look to the United States for 
leadership in this area not because we 
are party to an international treaty 
but because we have actually demonstrated 
our commitment through 
tangible and sustained action. Our 


S7376 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

commitment to the rights of the disabled 
does not end with the passage of 
laws or the enforcement of regulations; 
rather, it is an ongoing commitment 
through civil society and a myriad of 
civic groups, NGOs, and religious organizations, 
many of which work abroad 
to help improve the lives of persons 
with disabilities. It also extends to individuals, 
including entrepreneurial 
Americans who continuously seek to 
develop new cutting-edge technologies 
to improve the lives of anyone who 
might benefit from such tools. 

I am not naive regarding the challenges 
we face in ensuring that persons 
with disabilities around the world can 
benefit from the kind of education, employment, 
and housing access Americans 
with disabilities already enjoy 
here in the United States. I firmly believe 
the United States must continue 
to pursue this disability diplomacy on 
both a bilateral and multilateral basis 
where it is appropriate. But it is not at 
all clear to me that it is necessary to 
ratify this convention to achieve our 
goal of promoting disability rights and 
protecting the disabled from discrimination. 


At the end of the day, I believe the 
proponents argue two contradictory 
positions: first, that it is really important 
that the United States ratify the 
convention so that nations will have to 
respect the rights of disabled persons. 
The second argument they make is 
that the United States need not be concerned 
about obligations under the 
treaty because it is not enforceable, it 
really has no effect on us. 

Well, both things cannot be true. Either 
it is a problem or it is not effective. 
In either event, it is not an argument 
for ratification of the treaty. So 
while I respect the goals and the aspirations 
of the proponents, they do not 
justify committing the United States 
to another international obligation. As 
a result, I will oppose the resolution of 
ratification. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Massachusetts. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, what is 
the time allegation? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Massachusetts has 10 minutes, 
and the time in opposition has 8 
minutes. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, the Senator 
from Arizona—it is my understanding 
that there is no other speaker 
on the Senator’s side. I would simply 
ask if we could have an additional 5 
minutes on this side, if the Senator 
would not object, and that would bring 
us to the vote at noon. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, let me 
just say to the Senator from Arizona 
before he leaves, the Senator and I 
have engaged on these issues for some 
years now, and we have disagreed respectfully 
and in a friendly way. 

I would say to him, very respectfully, 
that there is no contradiction in the 
position of the proponents of this bill. 

While I understand what he said about 
China, the fact is that because China 
has signed up—and Russia and other 
countries—if we were a party to this 
and at the table discussing it, we would 
have greater leverage in order to be 
able to advance the rights of persons in 
China and elsewhere. 

Now, don’t take that from me, I 
would say to the Senator from Arizona. 
Guongcheng Chen is the blind activist 
for civil rights in China who has sought 
refuge in America for a brief period of 
time. His family has suffered in China, 
and he has written a letter to us. He 
says: 

Dear Senators, 

I am writing you to personally ask for your 
support for the Convention on the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities. As you know, my 
work on civil rights began with trying to ensure 
that people with disabilities in my 
home country of China were afforded the 
same rights as everyone else. The CRPD is 
making this idea real in significant ways 
around the world today. 

He goes on to say: 

I am hopeful that you will support ratification 
and allow others to benefit from these 
triumphs. 

And he is referring to the Americans 
with Disabilities Act and the other 
things we have done. 

I ask unanimous consent that this 
document of organizations supporting 
the treaty be placed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
THE COALITION FOR UNITED STATES RATIFICA


TION OF THE UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION 

ON THE RIGHTS OF PERSONS WITH DISABIL


ITIES 

President Herbert Walker Bush; The Honorable 
Bob Dole; The Honorable Tony Coelho;; 
The Honorable Dick Thornburgh; The 
Honorable Steve Bartlett; Ambassador 
Boyden Gray; Mayer-Brown LLP: Carolyn 
Osolinik & Tim Keeler; Ted Kennedy Jr.; 
Howard Berman; John Wodatch; Dan 
Brezinski; Ray Kelley; Tom Zampiri; Access 
Living of Metropolitan Chicago: Marca 
Bristo; Alston & Bird LLP: Jennifer Butler; 
Bob Kettlewell; Consortium for Citizens with 
Disabilities; Disability Rights Education and 
Defense Fund; Glover Park Group; Eva Szeli 
Robert Dinerstein Hadar Harris Janet Lord 
Arlene Kantor Michael Stein; National Council 
on Disability; National Council on Independent 
Living; National Disability Leadership 
Alliance; United Spinal Association and 
21 Veteran organizations; United States 
Chamber of Commerce; United States International 
Council on Disabilities: David 
Morrissey, Esme Grant, Susie Richard, Ellis 
Ballard, and Andrea Shettle. 

Ability Chicago; Access Alaska Inc.; Access 
Living; Access, Inc.; ACCSES; 
Actionplay; ADAPT Delaware; Air Force 
Sergeants Association; Air Force Women Officers 
Associated; Alliance Center for Independence; 
American Academy of Child and 
Adolescent Psychiatry; Advocating 4 Kids 
LLC; American Academy of Pediatrics; 
American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry; 
American Association on Health and 
Disability; American Association on Intellectual 
and Developmental Disabilities; 
American Association of People with Disabilities; 
American Association for Psychosocial 
Rehabilitation; American Civil Liberties 
Union; American Council of the Blind. 

American Counseling Association; American 
Dance Therapy Association; Anti-Defa


mation League; American Diabetes Association; 
American Foundation for the Blind; 
American Foundation for Suicide Prevention; 
American GI Forum; American Group 
Psychotherapy Association; American Mental 
Health Counselors Association; American 
Music Therapy Association; American Network 
of Community Options and Resources; 
American Speech-Language-Hearing Association; 
American Therapeutic Recreation 
Association; amfAR, the Foundation for 
AIDS Research; AMVETS; APSE; ARC Gateway, 
Inc.; Arc Northland; Arc of Lucas county; 
Arizona Bridge to Independent Living 
(ABIL). 

Association for Assistive Technology Act 
Programs; Association of Jewish Family & 
Children’s Agencies; Association of Programs 
for Rural Independent Living; Association 
of United States Navy; Association of 
University Centers on Disabilities (AUCD); 
Association on Higher Education & Disability; 
Attention Deficit Disorder Association; 
Auditory Sciences; Autism National 
Committee; Autistic Self Advocacy Network; 
Autism Speaks; Bay Area People First; Bay 
Cove Human Services, Inc.; Bazelon Center 
for Mental Health Law; Bender Consulting 
Services, Inc.; Best Buddies International, 
Inc.; BlazeSports America; Blinded Veterans 
Association; BlueLaw International; Boston 
Center for Independent Living. 

Brain Injury Association of America; 
Bridge II Sports; Bridgewell; Burton Blatt 
Institute at Syracuse University; California 
Association of the Deaf—Riverside Chapter; 
CA State Council on Developmental Disabilities, 
Area Board 5; California Foundation 
for Independent Living Centers; California 
State Council on Developmental Disabilities; 
Californians for Disability Rights, Inc.; CBM; 
Center for Disability Rights; Center for Independent 
Living of South Florida, Inc.; Center 
for Leadership in Disability; Center on Disability 
and Community Inclusion; Challenged 
Conquistadors, Inc.; Check and Connect 
Program—Central Lakes College; Citizens 
for Patient Safety; Community Access 
Project Somerville; Community Access Unlimited; 
Community Alliance for the Ethical 
Treatment of Youth. 

Community Resources for Independent 
Living; Conference of Educational Administrators 
of Schools and Programs for the Deaf 
Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates; 
Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities; 
Consumer Advisory Committee; Council for 
Exceptional Children; Council of State Administrators 
of Vocational Rehabilitation; 
CUNY Coalition for Students with Disabilities; 
Daniel Jordan Fiddle Foundation; 
DAWN Center for Independent Living; Deaf 
and Hard of Hearing Alliance; Deaf Education 
And Families Project; Delaware Developmental 
Disabilities Council; Delaware 
Family Voices; Depression and Bipolar Support 
Alliance; Developmental Disabilities Institute, 
Wayne State University; Disabled 
American Veterans; Disability Connection/ 
West Michigan; Disability Help Center; Disability 
Law Center; disABILITY LINK. 

Disability Partners; disABILITY Resource 
Center; Disability Rights Coalition; Disability 
Rights Education and Defense Fund; 
Disability Rights Fund; Disability Rights 
International; Disability Rights Legal Center; 
disAbility Solutions for Independent 
Living; Disabled In Action of Metropolitan 
NYC; Disabled Rights Action Committee; 
Disabled Sports USA; Division for Early 
Childhood of the Council for Exceptional 
Children; Down Syndrome Association of 
Snohomish County; Down Syndrome Association 
of West Michigan; Dream Ahead the 
Empowerment Initiative; Dynamic Independence; 
East Texas Center for Independent Living; 
Easter Seals; ED101 Inc.; Equal Rights 
for Persons with Disabilities International, 
Inc. 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7377 

Employment & Community Options; Epilepsy 
Foundation; Family Voices; Fearless 
Nation PTSD Support; Federal Employees 
with Disabilities (FEDs); FESTAC-USA (Festival 
of African Arts and Culture); FHI n360; 
Fiesta Christian foundation Inc.; 504 Democratic 
Club; Foundations For Change, PC; 
Four Freedoms Forum; Fox River Industries; 
FREED Center for Independent Living; 
Friedman Place; G3ict; Gallaudet University; 
GlobalPartnersUnited; Goodwill Industries 
International; Greater Haverhill Newburyport; 
Handicap International; HEAL; Hearing 
Loss Association of America. 

Hearing Loss Association of Los Angeles; 
Hesperian Health Guides; Higher Education 
Consortium for Special Education; Human 
Rights Watch; IDEA Infant Toddler Coordinators 
Association; Independent Living, Inc.; 
Independent Living Center of the Hudson 
Valley, Inc.; Independent Living Center of 
the North Shore & Cape Ann, Inc; Institute 
for Community Inclusion: U. MA Boston; Institute 
for Human Centered Design; Institute 
on Human Development and Disability; Institute 
on Disability and Public Policy 
(IDPP); Inter-American Institute on Disability; 
International Ventilator Users Network; 
Iowa Statewide Independent Living 
Council (SILC); Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans 
of America; Jewish War Veterans; 
Johnson County Board of Services; Joint National 
Association of Persons with Disabilities; 
Just Advocacy of Mississippi. 

KEY Consumer Organization, Inc.; 
KIDZCARE School; L.E.A.N. On Us; Lake-
shore Foundation; Lakeside Curative Systems, 
Inc.; LINC; Little People of America; 
Living Independence For Everyone (LIFE) of 
Mississippi; Long Island Center for Independent 
Living, Inc. (LICIL); Loudon 
ENDependence; Mainstay Solutions LLC; 
Maryland Disability Law Center; Massachusetts 
Down Syndrome Congress; Massachusetts 
Families Organizing for Change; Medical 
Whistleblower Advocacy Network; 
Medicol Inc.; Mental Health Action; Mental 
Health America; MI Developmental Disabilities 
Council; Military Officers Association 
of America. 

MindFreedom International; Mobility 
International USA; Montana Independent 
Living Project; Multiethnic Advocates for 
Cultural Competence, Inc.; National Alliance 
on Mental Illness; National Association for 
Children’s Behavioral Health; National Association 
for Black Veterans; National Association 
of Councils on Developmental Disabilities; 
National Association of County Behavioral 
Health and Developmental Disability 
Directors; National Association of 
Law Students with Disabilities (NALSWD); 
National Association of School Psychologists; 
National Association of Social Workers; 
National Association of State Directors 
of Developmental Disabilities Services; National 
Association of State Directors of Special 
Education; National Association of 
State Head Injury Administrators; National 
Association of State Mental Health Program 
Directors; National Association of States 
United for Aging and Disabilities; National 
Association of the Deaf; National Black Deaf 
Advocates, Inc.; National Center for Environmental 
Health Strategies. 

National Center for Learning Disabilities; 
National Coalition for Mental Health Recovery; 
National Council on Independent Living; 
National Council for Community Behavioral 
Healthcare; National Disability Rights Network; 
National Down Syndrome Congress; 
National Down Syndrome Society; National 
Dysautonomia Research Foundation; National 
Federation of the Blind; National Federation 
of Families for Children’s Mental 
Health; National Guard Association of the 
United States; National Health Law Program; 
National Military Family Association; 

National Minority AIDS Council; National 
MS Society—Ohio Chapters National MS Society, 
Pacific South Coast Chapter; National 
Multiple Sclerosis Society; National Multiple 
Sclerosis Society, National Capital 
Chapter; National Rehabilitation Association; 
New York State Independent Living 
Council; Next Step; NHMH—No Health without 
Mental Health. 

Noble County ARC, Inc.; Northeast Arc; 
Not Dead Yet; Ohio Association of County 
Boards; Serving People with Developmental 
Disabilities; Ohio Statewide Independent 
Living Council; Ohio Valley Goodwill Industries; 
Oklahoma Association of Centers for 
Independent Living; Optimal Beginnings, LC; 
Osteogenesis Imperfecta Foundation; PA 
Mental Health Consumers’ Association; Paralyzed 
Veterans of America; Parent to Parent 
of NYS; Parent to Parent USA; Peer Assistance 
Services, Inc.; Peppermint Ridge; 
Perkins; PhilnthropyNow; Pineda Foundation 
for Youth; Polio Servivors Association; 
PPI; Purity Care Investments; PXE International. 


Raising Special Kids; REACH Resource 
Centers On Independent Living; Recovery 
Empowerment Network; Rehabilitation 
International; RESNA Rolling Start Inc., 
Rose F. Kennedy University Center for Excellence 
in Developmental Disabilities; 
Sandhills Post-Polio Health Group; Schizophrenia 
and Related Disorders; Alliance of 
America; School Social Work Association of 
America; Self Advocacy Council of Northern 
Illinois; Sindh Disabled Development Society; 
SoCal ASPE; Social Assistance and Rehabilitation; 
for the Physically Vulnerable; 
(SARPV); Socio Economic Development; Alliance 
(SEDA); Southeast Alaska Independent 
Living; SPEAK Consulting LLC; 
Special Needs Advocacy Network; Special 
Olympics; Spina Bifida Association. 

Statewide Independent Living Council; 
TASH Team of Advocates for Special Kids; 
(TASK); Teacher Education Division of the 
Council for Exceptional Children; Tennessee 
Disability Coalition; Tri-State Downs Syndrome 
Society; The Ability Center of Greater 
Toledo; The American Legion; The Arc-
Jefferson, Clear Creek & Gilpin Counties; 
The Arc Arapahoe & Douglas; The Arc California; 
The Arc Cedar Valley; The Arc Michigan; 
The Arc Noble County Foundation; The 
Arc of Bristol County; The Arc of Colorado; 
The Arc of Dickinson; The Arc of Fort Bend 
County; The Arc of Greater Pittsburgh; The 
Arc of Illinois; The Arc of Iowa. 

The Arc of Massachusetts; The Arc of 
Northern Virginia; The Arc of Opportunity 
in North Central Massachusetts; The Arc of 
the U.S.; The Arc of Virginia; The Arc of 
Toombs County; The Arc Western Wayne; 
The California Institute for Mental Health; 
The Center of Rights of Parents with Disabilities; 
The Jewish Federations of North 
America; The Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. Foundation; 
The National Council on Independent 
Living; The National Center of the Blind Illinois; 
The Starkloff Disability Institute; 
Three Rivers Center for Independent Living; 
Topeka Independent Living; Resource Center; 
Touchpoint Group, LLC; Tourette Syndrome 
Association; Treatment Communities 
of America; Tri count4y ILC. 

Tri-County Association of the Deaf, Inc., 
Twin Ports Post Polio Network; United Cerebral 
Palsy; United Spinal Association; U.S. 
Business Leadership Network; United States 
International Council on Disabilities; Utah 
Assistive Technology Foundation; Vermont 
Center for Independent Living; Vermont 
Family Network; Veterans for Common 
Sense; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Veterans of 
Modern Warfare; VetsFirst, a program of 
United Spinal Association; Vietnam Veterans 
of American; Voices of the Heart Inc; 
Whirlwind Wheelchair International; Wom


ens Refugee Commission; WORK, Inc., World 
Institute on Disability; Wounded Warrior 
Project; Wyoming Institute for Disabilities. 

Mr. KERRY. Over 328 veterans and 
disability organizations, all of our veterans 
organizations, who deal with people 
with disabilities and challenges 
support this treaty and believe it will 
make a difference. 

So when the Senator says: I don’t believe 
it will make a difference, every 
working member of the disabilities 
community disagrees with the Senator. 

I would just say to him respectfully 
that the facts are clear. He said this 
ties our hands. It doesn’t tie our hands. 
Senator LEE came to the floor earlier, 
and he agreed this doesn’t require any 
change of U.S. law. 

So I would say to my friend, there is 
no tying of the hands. We understand 
the fears people have, but I think it is 
important to try to decide this on the 
basis of fact. 

I yield to the Senator on his time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. As per 
the previous request, without objection, 
it is so ordered. 

Mr. KYL. First of all, I want to say 
to my colleague from Massachusetts 
that I very much have enjoyed the conversations 
we have had, and perhaps 
more so when we have been in disagreement 
because I think we have brought 
out a number of important points on a 
variety of issues. So I always appreciate 
his views. Secondly, since the 
Senator has specifically referred to the 
points I have made, let me just respond 
in one way. 

I don’t gainsay the argument that 
people who have a deep belief in trying 
to pursue a particular human right or 
other goal believe that getting together 
in the international community 
and talking about these things is a useful 
exercise. It is hard to argue in the 
abstract with that proposition, so I can 
understand the letters that would be 
written. 

The hard reality is, however, that 
there are nation states such as China 
that do like to sign up to these organizations 
and gain the reputation for 
doing good things while, in fact, not 
doing things, as I pointed out. So to 
some extent it can serve the opposite 
goal of giving cover to countries that 
really have no intention of acting in 
good faith or in good ways that we 
have demonstrated as the United 
States, and that is one of the problems 
here. 

I do acknowledge, and I will not use 
any more of the Senator’s time, but 
when one of two things is true, either 
it is fairly meaningless or it is really 
meaningful. I don’t think that we can 
make both arguments as arguments in 
support of our signing up to the treaty. 

Mr. KERRY. Well, we obviously differ 
on that. 

Let me emphasize the importance of 
the 328 groups, and I have submitted 
that for the RECORD. 

We are going to vote in a few minutes, 
and we are going to vote on a 
treaty that I regret to say some people 


S7378 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

are making controversial when, in fact, 
it really isn’t controversial. 

What this treaty says is very simple: 
It just says that people can’t discriminate 
against the disabled. It says other 
countries have to do what we did 22 
years ago when we set the example for 
the world and passed the Americans 
with Disabilities Act. 

In four simple words, this treaty says 
to other countries that don’t respect 
the rights of the disabled: Be more like 
us. That is what we are asking people 
to do. It doesn’t require any changes to 
American law, zero. This has no tying 
of the hands of America. There isn’t 
one law in the United States that 
would be negatively affected. But it 
will push, it will leverage, it will require 
other countries by their commitment 
to be held accountable to the 
standard that we have set and take our 
gold standard and extend it to the rest 
of the world. 

There are three reasons I have heard 
that we can’t do this. When I hear 
them, I am reminded of what I learned 
when I was a prosecutor, which was 
quite a few years ago now. I learned: If 
the facts are against you, then argue 
the law. If the law is against you, then 
argue the facts. If both are against 
you, just make it up. 

Well, that is exactly what is happening 
here. Neither the law nor the 
facts support any argument that has 
been made on the other side of this 
treaty. Accordingly, we are facing an 
entirely fictitious set of arguments—on 
abortion, on homeschooling, on lame-
duck sessions. All of their arguments 
have been contradicted by the facts in 
the law, and let me document that. 

This treaty is based on the Americans 
with Disabilities Act. We passed 
that 20 years ago. 

The father of the act is sitting here, 
the Senator from Iowa. In all those 20 
years, has any child been separated 
from a parent because of the ADA? No. 
Has homeschooling been hurt? No. In 
fact it has grown and is flourishing 
across the Nation. 

How is it possible a treaty, that according 
to our Supreme Court offers no 
recourse, no change in American law, 
no access to American courts, how is it 
possible that such a treaty could 
threaten anybody in our country? The 
answer is simple: It doesn’t and it 
can’t. 

Well, let’s go through the arguments 
one by one. First, they say it would undermine 
our sovereignty. I have heard 
several people suggest that, the laws 
governing the disabled. Well, that is 
wrong. Senator LEE just admitted it 
doesn’t affect any law in the United 
States. All it does is create a committee 
on the rights of persons with 
disabilities. 

What can this committee do? All it 
can do is review reports and make a 
suggestion. Are we scared, in the 
United States of America, of someone 
making a suggestion to us about how 
we might do something? It has no recourse 
in the court, no legal standing. 

The Foreign Relations Committee 
even included language in the resolution 
of advice and consent to make it 
crystal clear. What are we afraid of? 
That the committee would give us this 
advice? 

The second misconception is that 
this will allow the Federal Government, 
acting under U.N. instructions, 
to determine what is best for children 
with disabilities. Again, that is just 
flat wrong. The treaty does not give 
the Federal Government or any State 
government any new powers with respect 
to children with disabilities. It 
doesn’t change the balance of power between 
Federal and State government. 
It doesn’t require any change to existing 
State or Federal law. 

The Justice Department, former Republican 
Attorney General Dick 
Thornburgh, testified before the Foreign 
Relations Committee that any assertion 
to the contrary is incorrect. 
Our committee even included language 
in the resolution of advice and consent 
to absolutely crystallize those limitations. 


Finally, there are those who argue 
that a lameduck session is an inappropriate 
time for Senators to consider 
this treaty. Well, my colleagues, 
please, since the 1970s alone, the Senate 
has approved treaties during lame-
duck sessions a total of 19 times. There 
is nothing special or different about a 
lameduck. It is a session of the Congress. 
Just as we are going to consider 
important fiscal matters, we should 
consider other important matters. 

Our constituents expect us to do our 
jobs. There is no difference between a 
lameduck, a dead duck, or a regular 
duck. We ought to be here doing our 
jobs. 

More than any of the straw men, 
though, that we would have to deal 
with in this debate, there is, in fact, 
something much bigger at stake. This 
treaty and this vote will say a great 
deal about who we are in the Senate 
and who we are as a country. 

In the nearly 30 years I have been 
here, I think this is the first time I 
have seen a former majority leader of 
the Senate come to the Senate floor for 
a vote. It is certainly the first time 
that I have seen it happen when he had 
every right to be at home at age 89 taking 
care of his health, but that is not 
Bob Dole. 

Almost 70 years ago, when he came 
home to Kansas from the battlefields of 
Italy in a full body cast, people said 
that Bob would never have to work another 
day in his life. That is what they 
said; he was a hero; he had made his 
contribution. But Bob Dole worked 
every single day to stand, to walk, and 
to use his arms again. He made himself 
get out of that bed, and he made himself 
a public servant and a U.S. Senator 
and the Republican nominee for President 
in 1996. But his greatest pride was 
passing the Americans with Disabilities 
Act. 

Bob Dole, why is he here? He is not 
here because he is here to advocate for 

the United Nations, and certainly this 
man who served his country is not here 
because he doesn’t want to defend the 
sovereignty of the United States of 
America. He is here because he wants 
to know that other countries will come 
to treat the disabled the way we do. 

He is here because he wants to know 
that when a disabled American veteran, 
our wounded warriors, travel 
overseas, they are treated with the 
same dignity and respect they receive 
at home. That is why an 89-year-old 
veteran, 1 week removed from Bethesda 
Naval Hospital, comes back to the Senate 
on an early December day. Because 
it matters. 

What we do in the Senate matters 
not just to us but to people all across 
the globe, and maybe some people here 
need to be reminded of that. This is not 
about politics, this is not about ideology, 
this is about people. 

This treaty helps thousands of vets, 
men and women, who paid the price of 
devotion to our country with their 
limbs—with their limbs—and they 
struggle every day to get up, button 
their shirts, get out of the house. Some 
of them struggle to be able to share in 
life as all of us are able to share in it. 

I met one of them yesterday, Army 
Afghan vet Dan Berschinski, a double 
amputee as a result of the war in Afghanistan. 
He has fought back, and he 
has recovered enough to create a small 
business. Here is what he said, this 
West Point grad of 2007: 

I’m proud to be able to walk using prosthetic 
legs. Yet obstacles that might seem 
inconsequential to the fully able-bodied, like 
sidewalk curbs and stairs, take on a whole 
new meaning for veterans like me who struggle 
to walk, or use a wheelchair. Very fortunately 
for me, the United States leads the 
world in accessibility and equality of opportunity 
for the disabled. Unfortunately, the 
advantages granted here at home—that 
allow people like me to live fulfilling, independent 
lives—don’t exist in much of the 
rest of the world. 

Eight months after being wounded in combat, 
and while still a patient at Walter Reed 
Army Medical Center, I joined— 

And I am speaking for him— 

a few friends in a trip to South Africa to 
watch the World Cup. 

There I found myself in a different country, 
with no legs, a brand-new wheelchair 
and a lot of apprehension. While I should 
have been enjoying this once-in-a-lifetime 
trip, I was constantly worried about my ability 
to get around. Would the restaurant have 
an accessible bathroom or would I have to go 
without it? Would my wheelchair be able to 
fit in the hotel doorway or would I need to be 
carried into the lobby? Those are the kinds 
of questions we take for granted here in 
America, but, unfortunately, the accessibility 
measures we enjoy here simply aren’t 
present in many other countries. 

That is why Bob Dole and CPT Dan 
Berschinski want us to approve this 
treaty. I have heard nothing from the 
other side that outweighs the reality of 
that consideration for not just veterans 
but all persons with disabilities. 

What is at stake here is big. The outcome 
here will not, despite the fear, 
change one election here in the Senate. 
It is not going to decide one of the primaries 
that I fear are distorting the 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7379 

politics of our country. But you know 
what, it will decide whether some people 
live or die in another country, 
where there is no accountability and 
only United States values and standards 
are the difference to the prospects 
of someone with a disability. 

In some countries children are disposed 
of—killed—because they have a 
disability. Our treaty can actually help 
prevent that. In some countries children 
do not get to go to school and certainly 
have no prospects of a future 
simply because they are born with a 
disability. This treaty will help offer 
hope where there is none. The United 
States could actually sit at the table 
and make the difference for people 
with disabilities because we are willing 
to push our values and hold other nations 
accountable to meet our standards—
the gold standard of the Americans 
with Disabilities Act. 

Mr. President, I have heard some of 
my Republican colleagues talk many 
times about making the rest of the 
world more like America. I hate to 
think that now, when we have an opportunity 
to do that, they will retreat 
from that core conviction and oppose a 
treaty modeled on the United States’ 
example which has no recourse in 
American courts and no effect on 
American law. 

This treaty isn’t about American behavior, 
except to the degree that it influences 
other countries to be more 
like us. This treaty is about the behavior 
of other countries and their willingness 
to raise their treatment of people 
with disabilities to our level. It is that 
simple. This treaty isn’t about changing 
America, it is a treaty to change 
the world to be more like America. 

So why join, I have heard my colleagues 
ask several times. If it doesn’t 
have recourse in the law, why join? I 
will tell you why: Because we can sit at 
the table and affect the lives of our 
citizens by pushing other countries upwards; 
because we gain credibility and 
accelerate change through our advocacy 
by being part of a process; because 
it is good for American businesses, 
which can sell products and services as 
other nations raise their standards and 
need our expertise to meet their goals. 
That is why, incidentally, the United 
States Chamber of Commerce supports 
this treaty as do a huge number of 
businesses. 

Why support it? Because George H. 

W. Bush started this process and President 
George W. Bush signed the treaty 
to participate in it. And because, in the 
end, this treaty and our participation 
in it—and this is the most important— 
can improve the quality of life for people 
with disabilities. To join it is to 
keep faith with the men and women 
who have suffered grievous disability 
in defense of our Nation, and we owe 
them nothing less. This treaty is not 
about changing America, it is about 
America changing the world. 
But a vote here is a test of this institution. 
This vote is a test of whether 
the Senate, which passed the Civil 

Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act 
and the Americans with Disabilities 
Act, is still capable of voting to change 
things, not to mention sending a message 
that could change the world. 

I ask my colleagues to do for the 
world what they have done for America, 
walk down the aisle here for millions 
everywhere who cannot walk and 
make a statement; raise your voice and 
vote for millions who are voiceless in 
their own lands; stand for those who 
cannot stand for themselves. This is 
not about the United Nations, this is 
about common humanity. This vote is 
to test to see whether the Senate will 
stand for those who cannot see or hear 
and whether Senators can hear the 
truth and see the facts. 

Please don’t let Captain Berschinski 
down. Don’t let Senator Bob Dole 
down. Most importantly, don’t let the 
Senate and the country down. Approve 
this treaty. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the Resolution 
of Advice and Consent to Ratification 
of the Convention on the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask for 
the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk called the roll. 

Mr. KYL. The following Senator is 

necessarily absent: the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. KIRK). 
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 61, 
nays 38, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 219 Ex.] 

YEAS—61 
Akaka Gillibrand Murray 
Ayotte Hagan Nelson (NE) 
Barrasso Harkin Nelson (FL) 
Baucus 
Begich 
Inouye 
Johnson (SD) 
Pryor 
Reed 
Bennet Kerry Reid 
Bingaman 
Blumenthal 
Boxer 
Brown (MA) 
Brown (OH) 
Cantwell 
Cardin 
Klobuchar 
Kohl 
Landrieu 
Lautenberg 
Leahy 
Levin 
Lieberman 
Rockefeller 
Sanders 
Schumer 
Shaheen 
Snowe 
Stabenow 
Carper 
Casey 
Collins 
Lugar 
Manchin 
McCain 
Tester 
Udall (CO) 
Udall (NM) 
Conrad McCaskill Warner 
Coons Menendez Webb 
Durbin Merkley Whitehouse 
Feinstein Mikulski Wyden 
Franken Murkowski 
NAYS—38 
Alexander Graham Moran 
Blunt Grassley Paul 
Boozman Hatch Portman 
Burr Heller Risch 
Chambliss Hoeven Roberts 
Coats Hutchison Rubio 
Coburn 
Cochran 
Corker 
Cornyn 
Crapo 
DeMint 
Enzi 
Inhofe 
Isakson 
Johanns 
Johnson (WI) 
Kyl 
Lee 
McConnell 
Sessions 
Shelby 
Thune 
Toomey 
Vitter 
Wicker 

NOT VOTING—1 

Kirk 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this 
vote, the yeas are 61, the nays are 38. 
Two-thirds of the Senators present not 

having voted in the affirmative, the 
resolution of ratification is not agreed 
to. 

The majority leader. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, we hope 
shortly after the caucuses are ended 
today that we will have a vote on final 
passage of the Defense authorization 
bill. The managers have a few more 
amendments they are going to try to 
clear, but I think very quickly after 
the caucus we will have a vote. ‘‘Very 
quickly’’ around here is kind of a relative 
term, but we hope to do it as soon 
as we can. 

Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I move to reconsider 
the vote. 

Mr. REID. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

f 

RECESS 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate stands 
in recess until 2:15 p.m. 

Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:28 p.m., 
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassembled 
when called to order by the Presiding 
Officer (Mr. WEBB). 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

f 

THE FISCAL CLIFF 

Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I 
rise to bring attention to a critically 
important piece of legislation the Senate 
has passed and the House needs to 
pass immediately. It passed the Senate 
with bipartisan support. There are 
those on both sides of the aisle in the 
House of Representatives who support 
passing it. I am here to urge, in the 
strongest terms possible, that the 
Speaker bring up this bill before the 
House and get it passed. 

Many people, because of my speaking 
in the past, may think I am referring 
to the farm bill, which I also believe we 
need to have the House take up and 
pass because of our bipartisan work. 
But I actually am referring to the fact 
that we have only 27 days until we go 
over the fiscal cliff. For middle-class 
families what this means is 27 days before 
their taxes go up on average $2,200. 

What we are talking about is the fact 
that we passed a bill. We did not just 
pass a bill, we passed a bill in July. 
July 25 of this year the Senate passed 
a bill to extend tax cuts on all income 
up to $250,000. That is for anyone. It is 
now sitting in the House and everybody 
agrees middle-class families should not 
get a tax increase. Yet they have not 
taken it up. This needs to be taken up 
and passed before the end of the year so 
we can make sure middle-class families 
do not get caught in what we are talking 
about, which is the fiscal cliff. 

For a family on a budget, $2,200 more 
in taxes means a lot of things. It means 
a lot of things as families are trying to 
figure out how to pay for Christmas 
this year. It is not an accident that we 


S7380 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

are seeing layaway becoming very popular 
again as families are trying to figure 
out how to make sure their children 
have the Christmas they want to 
give them, yet juggle their cash flow 
situation in trying to figure out how to 
pay for it and pay the bills. That $2,200 
will make a huge difference to millions 
of families. It is the difference between 
just paying the regular bills—utility 
bills, the mortgage, the rent, the car 
payment. 

There is absolutely no reason families 
should find themselves in this situation 
right now when they are worried 
about this, absolutely none. As I said 
before, we passed a bill on July 25—not 
August, not September, not October, 
July 25—to get this issue off the table. 
We know there are broader issues on 
which we have to come together. There 
has to be a balanced approach, we 
know that, on long-term deficit reduction. 
But we said in the Senate, on a 
bipartisan basis, we do not want mid-
dle-class families caught in the middle 
of that. We do not want them being 
held hostage in order to get an additional 
tax break for multimillionaires. 

It has been 132 days since the House 
Republican leadership got that bill. 
For 132 days they have been refusing to 
take it up. I commend the Democratic 
leader in the House, NANCY PELOSI, for 
now bringing forward a discharge petition 
to bring that directly to the floor. 
I think it is widely believed—I certainly 
believe—that there are enough 
votes on the floor of the House to pass 
this, to make sure middle-class families 
do not see an additional $2,200 coming 
out of their paychecks starting in 
January. 

For 132 days families have been waiting 
for their own economic certainty. 
Yet it still has not been taken up in 
the House. Christmas is 3 weeks from 
today. This is the worst possible time 
to create uncertainty for families 
across America. We also know this is 
about hurting the economy. It is a drag 
on consumer spending not to continue 
the tax cuts—consumer spending which 
makes up about 70 percent of the economy. 
So there is a direct relationship 
between what happens in growing the 
economy and what happens for middle-
class families. Now we have 27 days for 
the House to get this done. There are 27 
days to stop holding middle-class families 
hostage while we work out a larger 
agreement on what needs to be done on 
deficit reduction. All we need to do is 
to pass the Senate bill. 

Let me repeat. By extending this particular 
bill, every American will get a 
tax cut on their first 250,000 in income. 
The good news is that involves tax cuts 
for 98 percent of American families; 98 
percent of American families will be 
protected from seeing any kind of a tax 
increase—and 97 percent of small businesses, 
by the way. So if someone has 
$1 over $250,000, they would not be protected 
from a tax increase. They would 
get the first $250,000 in tax cuts, but 
they would not get additional bonus 
tax cuts on top of that. This makes 

sure 98 percent of the American people 
do not see their taxes go up, and those 
who benefited the most by the tax cuts 
in the last decade will be able to step 
up and be part of the solution on deficit 
reduction, which the vast majority 
of people in this country agree is fair. 

People in Michigan are worried about 
what is going to happen. They come to 
me in the grocery store. I received 
many e-mails and calls to my office 
and meetings, on Facebook and Twitter. 
People in Michigan understand 
that $2,200 more coming out of their 
pockets next year can be devastating. 

Terri from Lansing told me she unexpectedly 
lost her job when her company 
went out of business and had to 
struggle in foreclosure, similar to 
many people, and used her Roth IRA to 
get by. ‘‘I am part of the baby boomer 
generation and now I live paycheck to 
paycheck, just barely surviving.’’ 

Two thousand dollars makes a huge 
difference. 

Zelda from Washington writes that 
$2,200 is our groceries for 4 months; 4 
months of groceries for Zelda’s family. 
That is what we are talking about if 
the Senate bill does not get passed by 
the House. 

Carol from Michigan writes: 

I am a retired grandmother getting a State 
pension and Social Security. I also have 
three teenage grandchildren living with me. 

That is not a new story for many people—‘‘
three teenage grandchildren living 
with me.’’ 

Any increase in anything might break me. 

Thomas from Grand Rapids writes: 

I will most likely have to find a job to 
make ends meet. So much for being retired. 

Again, so many families, so many individuals 
find themselves in this situation. 
They think they have planned for 
their retirement and now cannot count 
on what they thought would be there. 
They watch this and the fact that we 
have a choice to make sure tax cuts 
continue for 98 percent of the American 
families, middle-class families, that everybody 
gets a tax cut up to $250,000 a 
year. Yet the House Republicans will 
not even bring it up for a vote because 
they want extra tax cuts for multimillionaires? 
They look at that and 
they say: What, are you crazy? This 
makes absolutely no sense. 

President Obama ran on a plan to end 
the tax breaks for millionaires; basically, 
that plan that passed the Senate, 
by the way, on a bipartisan vote. He 
ran on a plan that would say those savings 
would then be applied to deficit reduction. 
We know that is so critical. 

We saw what people thought about 
that. He was reelected by a wide margin. 
The American people want us to 
come together, to work together in a 
bipartisan way to reduce the deficit, 
and they support the approach that 
starts by making sure middle-class 
families are not once again asked to 
pay for the full burden of what needs to 
be done. They support an effort that 
says extend tax cuts for middle-class 
families and ask those at the very top 

who have gotten extra tax cuts to forgo 
those and chip in to be part of the larger 
deficit reduction solution. 

Unfortunately, yesterday Speaker 
BOEHNER ignored this when he offered a 
Republican counterproposal to the 
President’s proposal that would essentially 
raise taxes on middle-class families 
and cut Medicare for our senior 
citizens. As Senator REID said yesterday, 
‘‘It flunks the test of balance.’’ 

To get the kind of revenue to reduce 
the deficit that is needed, that we all 
agree has to be done, their plan does 
some radical things. Their idea of revenue 
is to continue the tax cuts for any 
income above $250,000 for multimillionaires 
and, instead, to get rid of tax deductions 
used by middle-class families. 
So middle-class families might not 
have a mortgage deduction on their 
home that millions of people rely on; 
the student loan deduction for middle-
class families that is allowing college 
to be more affordable; the charitable 
giving deduction that middle-class 
families rely on when they donate to 
churches and other nonprofits; the 
marriage penalty; the child credit; the 
mortgage tax relief deduction I offered 
to make sure if someone has to do a 
short sale at the bank, they do not pay 
extra taxes. 

That is important for everyone to understand; 
that we—and I am speaking 
now as a Senate majority—are not 
going to balance the budget on the 
backs of middle-class families. We are 
not going to balance the budget, reduce 
the deficit by asking middle-class families 
who had the biggest hit of anybody 
with everything that has happened in 
the recession—and I certainly can 
speak for Michigan on this—we are not 
going to put the burden on middle-class 
families one more time. That is not 
what this is about. 

On election day 60 percent of voters 
said they wanted to end the extra tax 
breaks for people making over 
$250,000—for income over $250,500. Yet 
the House Republican leadership wants 
to welcome middle-class families into 
the new year by having their taxes go 
up on average $2,200. As Zelda from 
Michigan said, that is 4 months of groceries. 
No way. There is no way I am 
going to support letting that happen. 

Thankfully, we do have Republican 
colleagues who join us wanting to get 
this passed. We did in the Senate and 
those speaking out in the House and I 
commend them. Congressman TOM 
COLE from Oklahoma stated the obvious 
last week—and I encourage and 
congratulate him for speaking out. He 
said Republicans should immediately 
extend the tax cuts for families making 
under $250,000 a year. That is what 
he said. I agree with that. His Oklahoma 
constituents praised him. His 
constituents praised him. Unfortunately, 
his leadership dismissed him. 
The Washington Post reported that 70 
percent of the calls to Congressman 
COLE’s Washington, DC, office are positive 
and that 90 percent of his calls 
back home in Oklahoma—90 percent— 
have supported his position. 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7381 

Congressman COLE knows he should 
be listening to his constituents, and he 
is. If we all listened to the people we 
represent and if the House leadership 
listens to the people of this country 
and those they represent, they will 
pass the bill we sent to them in July. 

If taxes go up for middle-class families 
on January 1, people are going to 
know who is responsible for letting 
that happen. I urge House Republican 
leadership to take up S. 3412, the Mid-
dle-Class Tax Cut Act, pass it now, so 
the overwhelming number of families 
in this country have certainty going 
into this important holiday season and 
into the new year, so they can enjoy 
the season without knowing that their 
taxes are going to be going up on January 
1. As of today we have 27 days before 
the vast majority of people in 
America—98 percent—see tax increases 
occur. It makes no sense, there is no 
reason for it to happen, and we have already 
passed a bill. If the House passes 
a bill, that is step one. Step one very 
clearly says we are all together on supporting 
the middle class continuing 
their tax cuts. We know there is more 
to do. We are fully prepared to do that. 
But step one is to make sure the middle 
class is not held hostage while the 
debate goes on about what should happen 
for the wealthiest few in this country. 


I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

f 

LEGISLATIVE SESSION 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senate 
will resume legislative session. 

f 

NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA


TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 

2013—Resumed. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the pending business. 

A bill (S. 3254) to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2013 for military activities of 
the Department of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and 
for other purposes. 

Pending: 

Kyl modified amendment No. 3123, to require 
briefings on dialogue between the 
United States and the Russian Federation on 
nuclear arms, missile defense, and long-
range conventional strike systems. 

Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I 
suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
AKAKA). The Senator from Virginia. 

Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. WEBB. Mr. President, we are 
about to wrap up the Defense bill. This 
is the sixth Defense bill I have had the 
privilege of working on as a member of 

the Armed Services Committee. It is 
also the final Defense bill I will be 
working on as a Member of the U.S. 
Senate. I want to take this opportunity 
to say what an honor and privilege it 
has been to serve as a member of that 
committee and express my thanks to 
Chairman LEVIN. 

As someone who began his time on 
Capitol Hill as a full-committee counsel 
on the House side many years ago 
and then spent 5 years in the Pen-
tagon—often working over here on the 
Hill—and now after 6 years in the Senate, 
I can say that Senator LEVIN is a 
five-star committee chairman. He is 
what one always hopes for when he or 
she serves on a committee in the U.S. 
Congress. It has been a true honor. 

This committee is an example of how 
committee work should be undertaken 
in the U.S. Congress. People like to say 
this is the 51st consecutive year we 
have, hopefully, been able to pass a Defense 
authorization bill. I would suggest 
to my colleagues that perhaps 
that example should be used more 
broadly in this body. I think it would 
make for good governance if it did. 

I want to also express my appreciation 
to Senator MCCAIN, the Senator 
from Arizona. I have known him as a 
colleague and friend for more than 30 
years. He comes from a family that has 
a long tradition of military service to 
our country that continues even until 
today. Senator MCCAIN and I have had 
occasional disagreements on the conduct 
of foreign policy, but I think it 
has been very rare that we have seen 
differently as to our views of how the 
Department of Defense should undertake 
its responsibilities. 

As the subcommittee chair of the 
personnel subcommittee, I want to express 
my appreciation to my staff, 
Gary Leeling, Jon Clark, Brie Fahrer, 
and Jennifer Knowles. They have always 
been accessible and extremely 
professional. It has been a great privilege 
to work with them. 

I also want to take a special moment 
of privilege here to recognize Gordon 
Peterson, who has been my military assistant 
throughout my time in the U.S. 
Senate. Gordon Peterson and I graduated 
from the Naval Academy in the 
same year. He was a very fine and respected 
athlete at the Naval Academy. 
He went on to become a helicopter 
pilot in combat in Vietnam. He gave 
our country 30 years of distinguished 
service as a naval officer. He was later 
the editor in chief of Seapower magazine, 
and was a special assistant to the 
Commandant of the Coast Guard. He 
has been unflagging in his attention to 
detail in everything we have worked on 
in the last 6 years. 

We were talking a few days ago about 
whether either of us would have 
thought that during the days of our 
plebe summers so many years ago we 
would be sitting on the floor of the 

U.S. Senate as stewards of the well-
being of our country and of the people 
who served it. I give a special thanks 
to Gordon Peterson as he moves on to 
other challenges in his life. 
Again, it has been my privilege to 
serve on this committee. 

With that, I yield the floor and suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. 
President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the order for the quorum call be 
rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
WEBB). Without objection, it is so ordered. 


Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. 
President, I wanted to come down and 
talk about an amendment I am working 
on to the Defense authorization 
bill. Last week Senator CORKER and I 
filed amendment No. 3049, which would 
create an open burn pit registry in the 
Defense Authorization Act. 

Our veterans and Active-Duty members 
suffering from exposure to burn 
pits should not have to wait any 
longer. The Senate Veterans’ Affairs 
Committee agrees and has passed the 
legislation after holding hearings. 
However, I understand there is currently 
opposition to passing this 
amendment via a managers’ package. 

I would note that we have already 
passed two amendments dealing with 
veterans yesterday, both the Pryor 
amendment No. 3291 dealing with veterans 
employment and training and the 
Reed of Rhode Island amendment No. 
3165 dealing with housing assistance for 
veterans. Both of these were outstanding 
amendments and help maintain 
the trust we have made to our veterans 
and our current servicemembers 
whom we have an obligation to care for 
when they have completed their service. 


In both Afghanistan and Iraq, open-
air burn pits were widely used at forward 
operating bases. Disposing of 
trash and other debris was a major 
challenge. I believe, like the rest of my 
colleagues, that if we are forever in 
debt to our veterans for their service, 
we must be asking this question: How 
did these burn pits impact the health 
of our returning heroes? This amendment 
is a step toward finding the answers 
we owe them. It is supported by 
numerous groups, including Burnpits 
360, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Association 
of the U.S. Navy, Retired Enlisted 
Association, the Uniformed Services 
Disabled Retirees, and the National 
Military Family Association. 

I am hopeful that we can pass this 
amendment No. 3049 through a unanimous 
consent agreement, but I respectfully 
request a vote at this time if no 
such agreement can be made. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Oklahoma. 

Mr. COBURN. I ask unanimous consent 
that the order for the quorum call 
be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 


S7382 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

Mr. COBURN. I just wanted to spend 
a few minutes talking about Reed 
amendment No. 3255 and to point out to 
my colleagues I know this amendment 
will pass, but I believe we ought to be 
on record as voting to add $1.7 billion 
in additional funds that our kids are 
going to pay for. 

This is paid for, but it is smoke and 
mirrors. We have used a trick in how 
we do this. Ultimately, what is going 
to happen is here is another bill that 
will require funding from the health 
account at the Pentagon, which is in 
operations and maintenance, which 
means we will not have $1.7 billion for 
naval exercises, for flight training, for 
tank training, for range training. In 
other words, out of this account is 
where it comes to all the preparedness. 

I must give President Obama credit. 
He has recommended what the committee 
recommended doing for the last 
21/2 years. Now we have an amendment 
that takes where the committee went 
to, actually, a small copay, increasing 
copay on pharmacy benefits for retirees, 
and reverses that and forces our 
veterans to have to use mail order. I 
am OK with mail order. I know we save 
a lot of money with that, but the CBO 
says as soon as we stop this one year, 
the mandate is going to go back the 
other way and the cost is going to be 
this amount of money. They have met 
the literal requirements of pay-go, but 
they haven’t met the functional requirements. 
Here we have another 
amendment that we will take out of 
the operations and maintenance account, 
and that is important. But the 
most important issue in this debate is 
we continue to want to have benefits 
for our retired military that are growing 
faster than the rate of inflation— 
certainly faster than—and not have 
them help pay for the increase in the 
benefits. 

We have $16.4 trillion worth of debt 
this morning. We have $88 trillion 
worth of unfunded liabilities, and now 
we are at this juncture where we are 
having a discussion between the Speaker 
of the House and the President on 
how we get over the fiscal cliff and 
start to solve some of these problems. 
We have an amendment put up because 
there is a very powerful force, all the 
service organizations and everything 
else, that said don’t do this. 

Everybody in our country, if we are 
to get out of the problem, is going to 
have to pay a small sacrifice. This is 
not a large amount of money, unless 
you are absolutely destitute, in terms 
of the copays. The President has recommended 
we do that, the committee 
recommended it and we are reversing it 
and using the gimmick so there can’t 
be a budget point of order on it. 

There will be a time in the not-too-
distant future when the decisions to 
control our future will be out of our 
hands in terms of the economics and 
the debt. Delaying that now, because 
we do not want to yield against the 
popular criticism, will cause us to pay 
a further great price. The very people 

who are going to be asked to contribute 
as part of fixing our country 
are going to be paying a greater price. 

I just received a book from our colleague, 
the Senator from Rhode Island, 
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE. I received it 
today, and I have already finished half 
of it. It has a wonderful introduction. I 
would recommend to all my colleagues—
I know they will get one—to 
read it. It is a collection of thoughts 
and sayings. If we read what Daniel 
Webster said, we read what Benjamin 
Franklin said, and we read what Winston 
Churchill has said about bowing 
to the public pressure rather than 
doing the best right thing, we will not 
regret it. 

This is a popular amendment. It is 
going to pass. The service organizations 
want us to do it, but it is not the 
right thing to do. We have to begin, as 
we negotiate, to increase revenues 
from the very wealthy in this country, 
declining expenses at the Defense Department; 
everybody has to share, everybody 
in America. If they don’t share 
now, they will share much more painfully 
in the future. 

I don’t have anything else to say on 
this other than I will vote against it, 
not because I want veterans to have to 
have a copay but because I want our 
country to get out of the hole we are 
in. Part of the sharing of that is a 
copay on retail pharmacy. 

I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
FRANKEN). The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I ask unanimous consent 
that the order for the quorum call 
be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 

objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. As we are wrapping up, 
I would like to tell the Senator from 
Oklahoma he is correct. 

Former Secretary of Defense Gates, 
probably the most respected Secretary 
of Defense we have had in many years, 
said, ‘‘Health care costs are,’’ in his 
words, ‘‘eating us alive.’’ 

None of us, I don’t know a single 
Member of this body, no matter where 
they are, who doesn’t want to make 
sure our veterans are cared for, the 
widows, the orphans, the veterans, as 
Abraham Lincoln described them. We 
are going to have to find ways to bring 
these costs under control and still, at 
the same time, provide our veterans 
with the benefits they have earned. 

I know of no one who joined the military 
because of TRICARE—I hear from 
all the retirees and all that—they 
joined the military because of 
TRICARE. I have not yet met a single 
18-year-old, including my own son, who 
joined the Marine Corps who said: Gee, 
I want to join the Marine Corps because 
of TRICARE. No, they joined the 
military because they want to serve 
their country. 

They understand our obligation to 
them is not to hand them a bankrupt 

Defense Department, that all the costs 
are in things such as TRICARE and retirement 
benefits and other personnel 
costs so we can’t provide them with 
what they need to fight. 

I understand the positions of the veterans 
groups in this country. I respect 
them, I love them, and I appreciate 
them. But we are going to have to get 
serious about entitlements for the 
military just as we are going to have to 
get serious about entitlements for nonmilitary. 


I admit our veterans are in a special 
category. No group of Americans has 
been willing to serve and sacrifice as 
our veterans have, although there are 
certainly other Americans who sacrifice 
and serve in many other ways. 

I say to my friend from Oklahoma, I 
look forward, perhaps next year—I 
hope the Reed amendment will not be 
proposed at this time. We need to sit 
down with the chairman, and we will 
have to have some hearings to find out 
what these future costs of health care 
will be. For example, I believe it has 
gone now from 11 percent—health care 
costs have gone from 11 percent now to 
13 percent of the entire defense budget, 
and it will continue higher. We can’t 
keep doing that. 

We adopted an amendment by Senator 
GILLIBRAND on autism services. 
The way it is written will require an 
increase of $1.7 billion over the next 10 
years and no way to pay for it. I appreciate 
the dedication of the Senator 
from New York, but her answer was: 
We would like to work with you on 
that. 

We have to do more than work on it. 
We have to solve it. All I can say is 
while we are waiting, I hope we understand 
that here it is. The DOD health 
care costs represent nearly 11 percent 
of the total budget request for DOD, 
and it will continue to rise to more 
than 13 percent. Then it will go even 
higher and higher and higher. 

There was an editorial in the Washington 
Post today that says, ‘‘Time to 
Rein in TRICARE.’’ It says, in part: 

. . . the administration plans cuts, including 
shrinking the Army and the Marine 
Corps. This is risky, given the potential 
threats the United States faces. 

Unfortunately, Congress is 
compounding the problem by protecting 
expensive items that inflate 
personnel costs without any corresponding 
payoff in defense readiness.’’ 


So I would urge my colleagues to pay 
attention to the editorial in the Washington 
Post, ‘‘Time To Rein In 
Tricare,’’ because I think it is important 
for us to understand. 

Let me quote from the article: 

Tricare’s costs have surged in recent years 
from $19 billion in fiscal year 2001 to $52.8 billion 
in fiscal 2011. 

I repeat: In 2001 TRICARE costs were 
$19 billion. In 2011 it was $52.8 billion. 

Much of the growth was driven by Congresses’ 
2001 decision to add what is essentially 
a free Medigap plan for retirees over 

65. But the main issue is the ultra-low fees 
and deductibles—which give retirees still of 

December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7383 

working age little incentive to economize or 
choose employer plans. President Obama’s 
budget plan would save $12.8 billion over five 
years by gradually increasing working-age 
retirees’ annual enrollment fees, with lower-
income retirees paying the least, and then 
adjusting them according to national health 
spending growth thereafter. 

We would not be doing any of that 
with this bill. We would not be doing 
any of that. But I would argue this is 
not the time now, as we finish with 
this bill, to add another additional cost 
that we have not found ways to pay for, 
which consumes a larger and larger 
part of the defense budget. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, in a moment 
I am going to note the absence of 
a quorum unless there is someone who 
wishes to speak. 

I want to try to work through this 
pending issue. I think it is the last 
issue we need to work through in some 
way before there will be a unanimous 
consent request that is propounded. If 
we can figure out the best way to handle 
this, and then offer a unanimous 
consent request, we will be able to 
reach the end of the bill this very day. 

So I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

Oh, I withhold that. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I would just ask my 
friend—I understand we have a managers’ 
package—is it his preference we 
have the managers’ package done at 
the same time as the UC; do that together? 


Mr. LEVIN. It is. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Hopefully, we will do 
that shortly. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
AMENDMENTS NOS. 2927, 3019, 3062, 3113, 3175, 3241, 
3242, 3277, 3285, 3226, AND 3117 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I call up a 
list of 11 amendments which have been 
cleared by myself and Senator MCCAIN: 
Kyl amendment No. 2927, as modified 
by the changes at the desk; Akaka 
amendment No. 3019; Toomey amendment 
No. 3062; Brown of Ohio amendment 
No. 3113, as modified by the 
changes at the desk; Rubio amendment 
No. 3175, as modified by the changes at 
the desk; Carper amendment No. 3241; 
Carper amendment No. 3242; Thune 
amendment No. 3277, as modified by 
the changes at the desk; Moran amendment 
No. 3285, as modified by the 
changes at the desk; Bennet amendment 
No. 3226, as modified by the 
changes at the desk; and Hatch amendment 
No. 3117, as modified by the 
changes at the desk. 

Mr. MCCAIN. These amendments 
have all been cleared on this side. 

Mr. LEVIN. I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate consider these amendments 
en bloc, the amendments be 

agreed to, and the motion to reconsider 
be laid upon the table. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 

objection? 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 
The amendments were agreed to, as 

follows: 
AMENDMENT NO. 2927, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of title XXXI, add the following: 


Subtitle D—Other Matters 

SEC. 3141. CONGRESSIONAL ADVISORY PANEL ON 
THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF 
THE NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY 
ADMINISTRATION AND ITS RELATIONSHIP 
TO OTHER FEDERAL 
AGENCIES. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established a 
congressional advisory panel (in this section 
referred to as the ‘‘advisory panel’’) to assess 
the feasibility and advisability of, and make 
recommendations with respect to, revising 
the governance structure of the National Nuclear 
Security Administration (in this section 
referred to as the ‘‘Administration’’) to 
permit the Administration to operate more 
effectively. 
(b) COMPOSITION.— 
(1) MEMBERSHIP.—The advisory panel shall 
be composed of 12 members appointed as follows: 
(A) Three by the speaker of the Committee 
on Armed Services of the House of Representatives. 
(B) Three by the minority leader of the 
House of Representatives. 
(C) Three by the majority leader of the 
Senate. 
(D) Three by the minority leader of the 
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate. 
(2) CHAIRMAN; VICE CHAIRMAN.— 
(A) CHAIRMAN.—The speaker of the House 
of Representatives and the majority leader 
of the Senate shall jointly designate one 
member of the advisory panel to serve as 
chairman of the advisory panel. 
(B) VICE CHAIRMAN.—The minority leader 
of the House of Representatives and the minority 
leader of the Senate shall jointly designate 
one member of the advisory panel to 
serve as vice chairman of the advisory panel. 
(3) PERIOD OF APPOINTMENT; VACANCIES.— 
Each member of the advisory panel shall be 
appointed for a term of one year and may be 
reappointed for an additional period lasting 
until the termination of the advisory panel, 
in accordance with subsection (f). Any vacancy 
in the advisory panel shall be filled in 
the same manner as the original appointment. 
(c) COOPERATION FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES.— 
(1) COOPERATION.—The advisory panel shall 
receive the full and timely cooperation of 
the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
Energy, and any other Federal official in 
providing the advisory panel with analyses, 
briefings, and other information necessary 
for the advisory panel to carry out its duties 
under this section. 
(2) ACCESS TO INFORMATION.—Members of 
the advisory panel shall have access to all 
information, including classified information, 
necessary to carry out the duties of the 
advisory panel under this section. The security 
clearance process shall be expedited for 
members and staff of the advisory panel to 
the extent necessary to permit the advisory 
panel to carry out its duties under this section. 
(3) LIAISON.—The Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Energy 
shall each designate at least one officer 
or employee of the Department of Defense, 
Department of State and the Department of 
Energy, respectively, to serve as a liaison officer 
between the department and the advisory 
panel. 

(d) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 120 
days after the date that each of the members 
of the advisory panel has been appointed, the 
advisory panel shall submit to the President, 
the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
Energy, the Committee on Armed Services of 
the Senate, and the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives an 
interim report on the feasibility and advisability 
of revising the governance structure 
of the Administration to permit the Administration 
to operate more effectively, to be 
followed by a final report prior to the termination 
of the advisory panel in accordance 
with subsection (f). The report shall include 
the following: 
(1) Recommendations with respect to the 
following: 
(A) The organization and structure of the 
Administration, including the roles, responsibilities, 
and authorities of the Administration 
and mechanisms for holding the Administration 
accountable. 
(B) The allocation of roles and responsibilities 
with respect to the safety and security 
of the nuclear weapons complex. 
(C) The relationship of the Administration 
to the National Security Council, the Nuclear 
Weapons Council, the Department of 
Energy, the Department of Defense, as well 
as the national security laboratories, and 
other Federal agencies, as appropriate. 
(D) The role of the Administration in the 
interagency process for planning, programming, 
and budgeting with respect to the nuclear 
weapons complex. 
(E) Legislative changes necessary for revising 
the governance structure of the Administration. 
(F) The appropriate structure for oversight 
of the Administration by congressional committees. 
(G) The length of the term of the Administrator 
for Nuclear Security. 
(H) The authority of the Administrator to 
appoint senior members of the Administrator’s 
staff. 
(I) Whether the nonproliferation activities 
of the Administration on the day before the 
date of the enactment of this Act should remain 
with the Administration or be transferred 
to another agency. 
(J) Infrastructure, rules, and standards 
that will better protect the safety and health 
of nuclear workers, while also permitting 
those workers the appropriate freedom to efficiently 
and safely carry out their mission. 
(K) Legislative or regulatory changes required 
to improve contracting best practices 
in order to reduce the cost of programs without 
eroding mission requirements. 
(L) Whether the administration should operate 
more independently of the Department 
of Energy while reporting to the President, 
through the Secretary of Energy. 
(2) An assessment of how revisions to the 
governance structure of the Administration 
will lead to a more mission-focused management 
structure capable of keeping programs 
on schedule and within cost estimates. 
(3) An assessment of the disadvantages and 
benefits of each organizational structure for 
the Administration considered by the advisory 
panel. 
(4) An assessment of how the national security 
laboratories can expand basic science 
in support of ancillary national security missions 
in a manner that mutually reinforces 
the stockpile stewardship mission of the Administration 
and encourages the retention of 
top performers. 

S7384 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

(5) An assessment of how to better retain 
and recruit personnel, including recommendations 
for creating an improved professional 
culture that emphasizes the scientific, 
engineering, and national security 
objectives of the United States. 
(6) Any other information or recommendations 
relating to revising the governance 
structure of the Administration that the advisory 
panel considers appropriate. 
(e) FUNDING.—Of the amounts authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2013 and 
made available to the Department of Defense 
pursuant to this Act, not more than 
$1,000,000 shall be made available to the advisory 
panel to carry out this section. 
(f) SUNSET.—The advisory panel established 
by subsection (a) of this section shall 
be terminated on the date that is 365 days 
after the date that each of the twelve members 
of the advisory panel has first been appointed. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3019 
(Purpose: To amend the Small Business Jobs 

Act of 2010 with respect to the State Trade 
and Export Promotion Grant Program) 
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the 

following: 

SEC. 1084. STATE TRADE AND EXPORT PROMOTION 
GRANT PROGRAM. 

Section 1207(a)(5) of the Small Business 
Jobs Act of 2010 (15 U.S.C. 649b note) is 
amended by inserting after ‘‘Guam,’’ the following: 
‘‘the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands,’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3062 
(Purpose: To require the Government Accountability 
Office to include in its annual 
report to Congress a list of the most com


mon grounds for sustaining protests relating 
to bids for contracts) 
At the end of subtitle E of title VIII, add 

the following: 

SEC. 888. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION ON COMMON 
GROUNDS FOR SUSTAINING 
BID PROTESTS IN ANNUAL GOVERNMENT 
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE REPORTS 
TO CONGRESS. 

The Comptroller General of the United 
States shall include in the annual report to 
Congress on the Government Accountability 
Office each year a list of the most common 
grounds for sustaining protests relating to 
bids for contracts during such year. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3113, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of subtitle E of title VIII, add 
the following: 

SEC. 888. SMALL BUSINESS HUBZONES. 

(a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term 
‘‘covered base closure area’’ means a base 
closure area that, on or before the date of enactment 
of this Act, was treated as a 
HUBZone for purposes of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) pursuant to section 
152(a)(2) of the Small Business Reauthorization 
and Manufacturing Assistance Act of 
2004 (15 U.S.C. 632 note). 
(b) TREATMENT AS HUBZONE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), 
a covered base closure area shall be treated 
as a hubzone the purposes of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) During the 5-
year period beginning on the date of enactment 
of this Act. 
(2) LIMITATION.—The total period of time 
that a covered base closure area is treated as 
a hubzone for purposes of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq) pursuant to this 
section and section 152(a)(2) of the Small 
Business Reauthorization and Manufacturing 
Assistance Act of 2004 (15 U.S.C. 632 note) 
may not exceed 5 years. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3175, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of subtitle E of title III, add the 
following: 

SEC. 344. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON NAVY 

FLEET REQUIREMENTS. 

It is the sense of Congress that— 

(1) the Secretary of the Navy, in supporting 
the operational requirements of the 
combatant commands, should maintain the 
operational capability of and perform the 
necessary maintenance in each cruiser and 
dock landing ship belonging to the Navy; 
(2) for retirements of ships owned by the 
navy prior to their projected end of service 
life, the Chief of Naval Operations must explain 
to the Congressional defense committees 
how the retention of each ship would degrade 
the overall readiness of the fleet and 
endanger United States National Security 
and the objectives of the combatant commanders; 
and 
(3) revitalizing the Navy’s 30-year shipbuilding 
plan should be a national priority, 
and a commensurate amount of increased 
funding should be provided to the Navy in 
the Future Years Defense Program to help 
close the gap between requirements and the 
current size of the fleet. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3241 
(Purpose: To repeal or modify certain man


dates of the Government Accountability 
Office) 
At the end, insert the following: 
Subtitle ll—GAO Mandates Revision Act 

SEC. l01. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘GAO 
Mandates Revision Act of 2012’’. 

SEC. l02. REPEALS AND MODIFICATIONS. 

(a) CAPITOL PRESERVATION FUND FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS.—Section 804 of the Arizona-
Idaho Conservation Act of 1988 (2 U.S.C. 2084) 
is amended by striking ‘‘annual audits of the 
transactions of the Commission’’ and inserting 
‘‘periodic audits of the transactions of 
the Commission, which shall be conducted at 
least once every 3 years, unless the Chairman 
or the Ranking Member of the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate or the Committee on House Administration 
of the House of Representatives, the 
Secretary of the Senate, or the Clerk of the 
House of Representatives requests that an 
audit be conducted at an earlier date,’’. 
(b) JUDICIAL SURVIVORS’ ANNUITIES FUND 
AUDIT BY GAO.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 376 of title 28, 
United States Code, is amended— 
(A) by striking subsection (w); and 
(B) by redesignating subsections (x) and (y) 
as subsections (w) and (x), respectively. 
(2) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—
Section 376(h)(2) of title 28, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘subsection 
(x)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (w)’’. 
(c) ONDCP ANNUAL REPORT REQUIREMENT.—
Section 203 of the Office of National 
Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 
2006 (21 U.S.C. 1708a) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘of each 
year’’ and inserting ‘‘, 2013, and every 3 years 
thereafter,’’; and 
(2) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding 
paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘at a frequency 
of not less than once per year—’’ and 
inserting ‘‘not later than December 31, 2013, 
and every 3 years thereafter—’’. 
(d) USERRA GAO REPORT.—Section 
105(g)(1) of the Veterans’ Benefits Act of 2010 
(Public Law 111–275; 38 U.S.C. 4301 note) is 
amended by striking ‘‘, and annually thereafter 
during the period when the demonstration 
project is conducted,’’. 
(e) SEMIPOSTAL PROGRAM REPORTS BY THE 
GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE.—Section 2 of 
the Semipostal Authorization Act (Public 
Law 106–253; 114 Stat. 636; 39 U.S.C. 416 note) 
is amended— 
(1) by striking subsection (c); and 
(2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) 
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively. 
(f) EARNED IMPORT ALLOWANCE PROGRAM 
REVIEW BY GAO.—Section 231A(b)(4) of the 
Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (19 
U.S.C. 2703a(b)(4)) is amended— 
(1) by striking subparagraph (C); and 
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as 
subparagraph (C). 
(g) AMERICAN BATTLE MONUMENTS COMMISSION’S 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDITS.— 
Section 2103(h) of title 36, United States 
Code, is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘of paragraph 
(2) of this subsection’’ and inserting 
‘‘of section 3515 of title 31’’; 
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘(1)’’; and 
(3) by striking paragraph (2). 
(h) SENATE PRESERVATION FUND AUDITS.— 
Section 3(c)(6) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2004 (2 U.S.C. 2108(c)(6)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘annual audits of the 
Senate Preservation Fund’’ and inserting 
‘‘periodic audits of the Senate Preservation 
Fund, which shall be conducted at least once 
every 3 years, unless the Chairman or the 
Ranking Member of the Committee on Rules 
and Administration of the Senate or the Secretary 
of the Senate requests that an audit 
be conducted at an earlier date,’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3242 
(Purpose: To intensify efforts to identify, 

prevent, and recover payment error, waste, 
fraud, and abuse within Federal spending) 
(The amendment is printed in the 

RECORD of Thursday, November 29, 2012, 
under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’) 
AMENDMENT NO. 3277, AS MODIFIED 
At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. lll. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING 
SPECTRUM. 

It is the sense of Congress that— 

(1) the Nation’s mobile communications industry 
is a significant economic engine, by 
one estimate directly or indirectly supporting 
3,800,000 jobs, or 2.6 percent of all 
United States employment, contributing 
$195,500,000,000 to the United States gross domestic 
product and driving $33,000,000,000 in 
productivity improvements in 2011; 
(2) while wireless carriers are continually 
implementing new and more efficient technologies 
and techniques to maximize their 
existing spectrum capacity, there is a pressing 
need for additional spectrum for mobile 
broadband services, with one report predicting 
that global mobile data traffic will 
increase 18-fold between 2011 and 2016 at a 
compound annual growth rate of 78 percent, 
reaching 10.8 exabytes per month by 2016; 
(3) as the Nation faces the growing demand 
for spectrum, consideration should be given 
to both the supply of spectrum for licensed 
networks and for unlicensed devices; 
(4) while this additional demand can be 
met in part by reallocating spectrum from 
existing non-governmental uses, the long-
term solution must include reallocation and 
sharing of Federal Government spectrum for 
private sector use; 
(5) recognizing the important uses of spectrum 
by the Federal Government, including 
for national and homeland security, law enforcement 
and other critical federal uses, existing 
law ensures that Federal operations 
are not harmed as a result of a reallocation 
of spectrum for commercial use, including 
through the establishment of the Spectrum 
Relocation Fund to reimburse Federal users 
for the costs of planning and implementing 
relocation and sharing arranagements and, 
with respect to spectrum vacated by the Department 
of Defense, certification under section 
1062 of P.L. 106–65 by the Secretaries of 
Defense and Commerce and the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff that replacement 
spectrum provides comparable technical 

December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7385 

characteristics to restore essential military 
capability; 

(6) given the need to determine equitable 
outcomes for the Nation in relation to spectrum 
use that balances the private sector’s 
demand for spectrum with national security 
and other critical federal missions, all interested 
parties should be encouraged to continue 
the collaborative efforts between industry 
and government stakeholders that 
have been launched by the National Telecommunications 
and Information Administration 
to assess and recommend practical 
frameworks for the development of relocation, 
transition, and sharing arrangements 
and plans for 110 megahertz of federal spectrum 
in the 1695–1710 MHz and the 1755–1850 
MHz bands. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3285, AS MODIFIED 
In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted, 
insert the following: 

SEC. 1064. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE 
UNITED STATES REPORT ON DEPARTMENT 
OF DEFENSE SPENDING 
FOR CONFERENCES AND CONVENTIONS. 


Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report 
setting forth an assessment of Department 
of Defense spending for conferences 
and conventions. The report shall include, at 
a minimum, an assessment of the following: 

(1) The extent to which Department spending 
for conferences and conventions has been 
wasteful or excessive. 
(2) The actions the Department has taken 
to control spending for conferences and conventions, 
and the efficacy of those actions. 
(3) Any fees incurred for the cancellation 
of conferences or conventions and an evaluation 
of the impact of cancelling conferences 
and conventions. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3226, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of subtitle F of title V of division 
A, add the following: 

SEC. 561. TROOPS-TO-TEACHERS PROGRAM ENHANCEMENTS. 


(2) MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT.—The Secretary 
of Defense and the Secretary of Education 
shall enter into a memorandum of 
agreement pursuant to which the Secretary 
of Education will undertake the following: 
(A) Disseminate information about the 
Troops-to-Teachers Program to eligible 
schools (as defined in section 2301(3) of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 (20 U.S.C. 6671(3)), as added by subsection 
(b)(2)). 
(B) Advise the Department of Defense on 
how to prepare eligible members of the 
Armed Forces described in section 2303(a) of 
such Act to become participants in the Program 
to meet the requirements necessary to 
become a teacher in an eligible school. 
(C) Advise the Department of Defense on 
how to identify teacher preparation programs 
for participants in the Program. 
(D) Inform the Department of Defense of 
academic subject areas with critical teacher 
shortages. 
(E) Identify geographic areas with critical 
teacher shortages, especially in high-need 
schools (as defined in section 2301(4) of such 
Act, as added by subsection (b)(2)). 
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 2301 of the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 (20 U.S.C. 6671) is amended— 
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through 
(5) as paragraphs (5) through (8), respectively; 
and 
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: 
‘‘(2) CHARTER SCHOOL.—The term ‘charter 
school’ has the meaning given that term in 
section 5210. 

‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE SCHOOL.—The term ‘eligible 
school’ means— 

‘‘(A) a public school, including a charter 
school, at which— 

‘‘(i) at least 30 percent of the students enrolled 
in the school are from families with 
incomes below 185 percent of poverty level 
(as defined by the Office of Management and 
Budget and revised at least annually in accordance 
with section 9(b)(1) of the Richard 

B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1758(b)(1)) applicable to a family of 
the size involved; or 
‘‘(ii) at least 13 percent of the students enrolled 
in the school qualify for assistance 
under part B of the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act; or 

‘‘(B) a Bureau-funded school as defined in 
section 1141 of the Education Amendments of 
1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021). 

‘‘(4) HIGH-NEED SCHOOL.—Except for purposes 
of section 2304(d), the term ‘high-need 
school’ means— 

‘‘(A) an elementary school or middle school 
in which at least 50 percent of the enrolled 
students are children from low-income families, 
based on the number of children eligible 
for free and reduced priced lunches under the 
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), the number of 
children in families receiving assistance 
under the State program funded under part 
A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 

U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the number of children eligible 
to receive medical assistance under 
the Medicaid program, or a composite of 
these indicators; 
‘‘(B) a high school in which at least 40 percent 
of enrolled students are children from 
low-income families, which may be calculated 
using comparable data from feeder 
schools; or 

‘‘(C) a school that is in a local educational 
agency that is eligible under section 
6211(b).’’. 

(c) PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION.—Section 2302 
of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6672(b)) is amended by 
striking subsections (b) through (e) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(b) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary 
may carry out a program (to be known as the 
‘Troops-to-Teachers Program’) to assist eligible 
members of the Armed Forces described 
in section 2303(a) to obtain certification 
or licensing as elementary school 
teachers, secondary school teachers, or vocational 
or technical teachers to meet the requirements 
necessary to become a teacher in 
an eligible school. 

(d) YEARS OF SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.—Section 
2303(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
6673(a)(2)(A)(i)) is amended by striking ‘‘6 or 
more years’’ and inserting ‘‘4 or more years’’. 
(e) PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT.— 
(1) AMENDMENT.—Section 2304 of the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 (20 U.S.C. 6674) is amended— 
(A) by striking paragraph (1) of subsection 
(a) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An eligible member of 
the Armed Forces selected to participate in 
the Program under section 2303 and to receive 
financial assistance under this section 
shall be required to enter into an agreement 
with the Secretary in which the member 
agrees— 

‘‘(A) within such time as the Secretary 
may require, to obtain certification or licensing 
as an elementary school teacher, 
secondary school teacher, or vocational or 
technical teacher to meet the requirements 
necessary to become a teacher in an eligible 
school; and 

‘‘(B) to accept an offer of full-time employment 
as an elementary school teacher, secondary 
school teacher, or vocational or tech


nical teacher for not less than 3 school years 
in an eligible school, to begin the school year 
after obtaining that certification or licensing.’’; 
and 

(B) by striking subsection (f) and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(f) REIMBURSEMENT UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.—
A participant who is paid a 
stipend or bonus shall be subject to the repayment 
provisions of section 373 of title 37, 
United States Code under the following circumstances: 


‘‘(1) FAILURE TO OBTAIN QUALIFICATIONS OR 
EMPLOYMENT.—The participant fails to obtain 
teacher certification or licensing or to 
meet the requirements necessary to become 
a teacher in an eligible school or to obtain 
employment as an elementary school teacher, 
secondary school teacher, or vocational 
or technical teacher as required by the participation 
agreement. 

‘‘(2) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.—The 
participant voluntarily leaves, or is terminated 
for cause from, employment as an elementary 
school teacher, secondary school 
teacher, or vocational or technical teacher 
during the 3 years of required service in violation 
of the participation agreement. 

‘‘(3) FAILURE TO COMPLETE SERVICE UNDER 
RESERVE COMMITMENT AGREEMENT.—The participant 
executed a written agreement with 
the Secretary concerned under section 
2303(e)(2) to serve as a member of a reserve 
component of the Armed Forces for a period 
of 3 years and fails to complete the required 
term of service.’’. 

(f) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by subsections (b) through (e) shall 
take effect on the first day of the first 
month beginning more than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3117, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of subtitle C of title III, add the 
following: 

SEC. 322. RATING CHAINS FOR SYSTEM PROGRAM 
MANAGERS. 

The Secretary of the Air Force, in managing 
system program management responsibilities 
for sustainment programs not assigned 
to a program executive officer or a direct 
reporting program manager, shall comply 
with the Department of Defense instructions 
regarding assignment of program responsibility. 


Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. 
SHAHEEN). The clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the only additional 
first-degree amendment remaining 
in order to the bill be the following: 
McCain amendment No. 3262, on Syria, 
as modified with changes that are at 
the desk; that there be 20 minutes 
equally divided in the usual form on 
the amendment; that any remaining 
time prior to 4:30 p.m. be equally divided 
between the chairman and ranking 
member for general debate on the 
bill; that at 4:30 p.m., all postcloture 
time be considered expired; that the 
Senate proceed to votes in relation to 
the McCain amendment, as modified; 
that no amendments be in order to the 
amendment prior to the vote; that 


S7386 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

upon disposition of the McCain amendment, 
the Senate agree to the pending 
Kyl amendment, which is a Kyl-Kerry 
amendment, No. 3123, as modified; that 
upon disposition of the Kyl amendment, 
the Senate proceed to a vote on 
passage of S. 3254, as amended; that 
upon passage of S. 3254, the Armed 
Services Committee be discharged from 
further consideration of H.R. 4310 and 
the Senate proceed to its consideration; 
that all after the enacting clause 
be stricken and the text of S. 3254, as 
amended and passed by the Senate, be 
inserted in lieu thereof; that H.R. 4310, 
as amended, be read a third time, 
passed, and the motion to reconsider be 
laid upon the table; that the Senate insist 
on its amendment, request a conference 
with the House on the disagreeing 
votes of the two Houses and 
that the Chair be authorized to appoint 
conferees on the part of the Senate, 
with the Armed Services Committee 
appointed as conferees; that no points 
of order be considered waived by virtue 
of this agreement, all with no intervening 
action or debate; and finally 
that the bill be printed as passed by 
the Senate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I 
thank all of our colleagues. 

Madam President, I ask unanimous 
consent that I be added as a cosponsor 
of the McCain amendment and that 
Senator COONS also be added as a cosponsor 
of the McCain amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
The Senator from Arizona. 
AMENDMENT NO. 3262, AS MODIFIED 
Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I call 
up amendment No. 3262, as modified. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 

clerk will report. 

The bill clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Arizona [Mr. MCCAIN] 

roposes an amendment numbered 3262, as 
modified. 
The amendment is as follows: 
AMENDMENT NO. 3262, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of subtitle C of title XII, add 
the following: 

SEC. 1233. REPORT ON MILITARY ACTIVITIES TO 
DENY OR SIGNIFICANTLY DEGRADE 
THE USE OF AIR POWER AGAINST CIVILIAN 
AND OPPOSITION GROUPS IN 
SYRIA. 

(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90 
days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report identifying the 
limited military activities that could deny 
or significantly degrade the ability of President 
Bashar al-Assad of Syria, and forces 
loyal to him, to use air power against civilians 
and opposition groups in Syria. 
(b) NATURE OF MILITARY ACTIVITIES.— 
(1) PRINCIPAL PURPOSE.—The principal purpose 
of the military activities identified for 
purposes of the report required by subsection 
(a) shall be to advance the goals of President 
Obama of stopping the killing of civilians in 
Syria and creating conditions for a transition 
to a democratic, pluralistic political 
system in Syria. 
(2) ADDITIONAL GOALS.—The military activities 
identified for purposes of the report 
shall also meet the goals as follows: 
(A) That the United States Armed Forces 
conduct such activities with foreign allies or 
partners. 
(B) That United States ground troops not 
be deployed onto Syrian territory. 
(C) That the risk to civilians on the ground 
in Syria be limited. 
(D) That the risks to United States military 
personnel be limited. 
(E) That the financial costs to the United 
States be limited. 
(c) ELEMENTS ON POTENTIAL MILITARY AC-
TIVITIES.—The report required by subsection 
(a) shall include a comprehensive description, 
evaluation, and assessment of the potential 
effectiveness of the following military 
activities, as required by subsection (a): 
(1) The deployment of air defense systems, 
such as Patriot missile batteries, to neighboring 
countries for the purpose of denying 
or significantly degrading the operational 
capability of Syria aircraft. 
(2) The establishment of one or more no-fly 
zones over key population centers in Syria. 
(3) Limited air strikes to destroy or significantly 
degrade Syria aircraft. 
(4) Such other military activities as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to achieve 
the goals stated in subsection (b). 
(d) ELEMENTS IN DESCRIPTION OF POTENTIAL 
MILITARY ACTIVITIES.—For each military activity 
that the Secretary identifies in subsection 
(c), the comprehensive description of 
such activities under that subsection shall 
include, but not be limited to, the type and 
the number of United States military personnel 
and assets to be involved in such activities, 
the anticipated duration of such activities, 
and the anticipated cost of such activities. 
The report shall also identify what 
elements would be required to maximize the 
effectiveness of such military activities. 
(e) NO AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF MILITARY 
FORCE.—Nothing in this section shall be construed 
as a declaration of war or an authorization 
for the use of force. 
(f) The report required in subsection (a) 
shall be delivered in classified form. 
Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I believe 
the Senator from Kentucky is 
here to speak on the amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Kentucky. 

Mr. PAUL. Madam President, the 
amendment before us requires that the 
President submit a plan for a no-fly 
zone for Syria. I want to compliment 
the authors for including in this 
amendment a clause that says nothing 
in this amendment shall be construed 
as a declaration of war or an authorization 
for the use of force. I think it is 
very important in our Nation today 
that we are not saying we are starting, 
beginning, or getting involved in a new 
war. 

However, I do think this amendment 
is ill-advised for two reasons. No. 1, I 
don’t think I know with certainty 
whether the Syrian rebels will be freedom-
loving, tolerant, constitution-
toting believers in a republican form of 
government or whether they will institute 
an Islamic republic that will have 
no tolerance for Christians and no tolerance 
for people of any other faith. 

It still remains to be seen whether a 
secular government will be established 
in Libya, Tunisia, or Egypt. There is 
the question of whether al-Qaida is 

more or less of a threat in Libya today 
since the rebels have won the civil war. 
I don’t think we know for certain what 
a rebel government in Syria will do 
with the 1 million Christians who live 
in Syria. 

Since the Iraq war, hundreds of thousands 
of Christians have fled Iraq and 
gone to Syria. Even after the war, apparently 
Syria was seen as more of a 
tolerant nation than Iraq. Will a rebel 
Islamic government in Syria tolerate 
or persecute Christians? Will a rebel Islamic 
government institute the death 
penalty for blasphemy, for conversion, 
or for apostasy? Will they have a true 
democracy, a secular government, or 
will they have a Syrian rebel government 
that is less tolerant than what 
they currently have? In many ways the 
Arab spring has become the Arab winter. 


In Egypt we have a leader from the 
Muslim Brotherhood who recited amen 
when a radical cleric stood up and said: 
Death to Israel. As a radical cleric 
said: Death to Israel and anyone who 
supports them, this Muslim Brotherhood 
leader of Egypt that came out of 
the Arab spring is nodding his head in 
assent and seemed to be chanting 
amen. 

Will they seek peace with Israel or 
war? Will the Syrian rebels seek a secular 
government or one ruled by 
Shari’a? I think there are many unknowns 
we need to be asking ourselves 
before we involve ourselves in a civil 
war. 

Secondly, I think it is a bad idea to 
discuss contingency plans for war. 
While I am in favor of the Senate retaining 
our prerogative to declare war, 
I believe that the details of the execution 
of war are in the purview of the 
Executive. In other words, we do have 
the power to begin or to not begin a 
war. That is the power the Constitution 
gave us, but I don’t think the Constitution 
intended to have 535 generals. 
I don’t think it intended to have us explicitly 
talking about every contingency 
plan for every possible war in 
every corner of the globe. 

Our Defense Department, no doubt, 
has contingency plans for a ballistic 
missile attack on the United States, a 
conventional land invasion, naval or 
air encounters throughout the world, 
but we don’t necessarily openly discuss 
them or encourage them. I don’t think 
it is best to openly discuss these plans 
for defending against an attack and especially 
not for involving ourselves in 
a civil war. 

Our Nation and our soldiers are 
weary of war. Our Nation yearns for 
leaders who will strive to keep us out 
of war. Our Nation yearns for leaders 
who are reluctant to begin a new war 
or get involved in a new war. I hope my 
colleagues today will not encourage a 
rush to war by publicly clamoring for a 
plan to become involved in Syria’s civil 
war. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Delaware. 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7387 

Mr. COONS. Madam President, I rise 
today to speak in favor of amendment 
No. 3262, which I am honored to cosponsor 
with Senators MCCAIN and LEVIN. I 
thank the Senators for their disciplined, 
diligent, and very strong leadership 
of this year’s NDAA process. 
This is an authorization bill that has 
been taken up and considered by the 
Senate for 52 years, and despite a lot of 
challenges and a lot of difficulties we 
had getting to bills, getting past objections, 
getting to reasonable processes 
and amendments, these two fine Senators 
have led admirably in a very difficult 
environment. 

This amendment does what I think 
we need to do next, to put before the 
Senate in an appropriate classified setting 
useful information about the possibilities 
before us and before our allies 
in a very difficult and very complex region 
that is, as Senator PAUL has 
noted, currently undergoing dramatic 
conflict. 

Let me speak to a few points that 
persuaded me to join Senator MCCAIN 
and Senator LEVIN in cosponsoring this 
amendment. 

First, despite the comments from my 
colleague from Kentucky, these plans 
will be delivered to the Senate in classified 
form. They will not be accessible 
to the general public, and they will not 
be broadcast to our opponents or those 
who might seek to learn about America’s 
plans. They will only be delivered 
in classified form. 

Second, and I think most important, 
it is explicit in this amendment that 
nothing in this section shall be construed 
as a declaration of war or an authorization 
for the use of force. Senator 
PAUL’s repeated concerns that we 
are rushing headlong into an over-
engagement in a civil war that is best 
left to the people of Syria is reflected 
clearly and in plain language in that 
provision within this amendment. 

Earlier today we took up and voted 
on the Convention on the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities. I spoke to 
this issue as well. Despite the plain 
language of that convention that would 
prevent it from having any of the noxious 
impacts it would have on families 
in the United States, despite the plain 
language of that convention and the 
various restrictions and reservations 
that were added to it, it would have no 
impact on homeschooling and no impact 
on reproductive rights in the 
United States. It would have no impact 
on any of the variety of things that 
were cast about on the floor of the Senate 
today. So, too, here we should not 
allow—despite this plain language— 
Senators to mislead our colleagues into 
thinking that somehow secretly embedded 
within this is an authorization 
for the use of force. 

So what is this? This is asking that 
the United States, in consultation between 
the Department of Defense and 
this Senate, make reasonable assessments 
of what our path forward in 
dealing with the tragic situation in 
Syria might be. This amendment is 

clear that it will not consider ground 
troops being deployed onto Syrian territory. 
It will only look at a means 
that might be used by the United 
States or our allies to stop Assad’s 
reckless, relentless criminal use of air-
power to murder his own civilians and 
his own citizens. 

I have been heartbroken as I have 
read account after account of jets and 
helicopters being used to stray from 
red lines, being used to bomb hospitals 
and schools, and of the thousands of innocents 
who have died. 

The Syrian civil war is a very complex 
conflict. Senator PAUL asked what 
I really think is the central question. 
He said: How can we be confident that 
the opposition will be tolerant, inclusive, 
peaceful, and that it will not prosecute 
or persecute Christians; that 
they will be an ally to Israel and not 
impose the sorts of threats and difficulties 
he cited from Libya, Egypt, and 
other countries? That is exactly the 
core question at issue for us going forward: 
Should the United States stand 
on the sidelines as Bashar al-Assad 
massacres tens of thousands more of 
his civilians or should we consider 
what ways we can be involved through 
providing humanitarian assistance? 

Should we support our regional allies, 
Turkey and Jordan, through multilateral 
engagement, supporting Turkey’s 
request to NATO for defensive 
material? Should we better learn and 
understand what the opposition on the 
ground is inclined to do and set clear 
standards for how, if they demonstrate 
they are reliable partners in pursuing 
peace and if they commit themselves 
to the elements of the national coalition 
and the Free Syrian Army and to 
being exactly what Senator PAUL 
would hope—tolerant, inclusive, pro-
democracy—why would we stand on the 
sidelines of history and allow Islamic 
extremists to instead write the future 
of the Syrian people? 

For these and many reasons I am 
grateful for the opportunity to join 
with Senators MCCAIN and LEVIN in cosponsoring 
this amendment. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senator 
from Connecticut be allowed 4 minutes, 
the Senator from Michigan be allowed 
3 minutes, and I be allowed 2 minutes 
before the vote. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from Connecticut. 

Mr. LIEBERMAN. Madam President, 
I am honored to rise to support this 
amendment and just to make a few 
points. The first is to assure all of our 
colleagues that this is just an amendment 
that asks the Pentagon to conduct 
a study. It is nothing more than 
that. I want to particularly say that to 
reassure anyone who is concerned that 
somehow this is an authorization for 
the use of military force. Look at the 
wording. That is just not the case. 

All we are debating and voting on is 
whether the Pentagon should be asked 
to do a study of the possibility of how 

we might stop Bashar al-Assad’s air 
force from committing acts of murder 
against his own people. In my way of 
thinking, to tell the truth, it is two 
things: One, this amendment is simply 
a way of saying that we in the Senate 
are concerned and care about the 
slaughter that is going on in Syria and 
agitated that the United States and 
the rest of the world is not doing more 
to come to the assistance of those who 
are fighting for their freedom and lives 
in Syria. 

I want to point out that there are a 
lot of options for the Pentagon to 
study. One is a traditional no-fly zone. 
We know a lot of people in the Pentagon 
are concerned that to carry out a 
traditional no-fly zone with our aircraft, 
we need to spend a lot of time 
and energy and assume risks to knock 
out the Syrian air defenses. Well 
enough. 

But there are other ways to achieve 
the goal of keeping Assad’s aircraft 
from destroying Syria’s people. One is 
to use Patriot antimissile batteries to 
keep Syrian planes—placed in Turkey 
and Jordan—out of the air. The second, 
of course, that I can think of is to fire 
precision guided missiles from offshore 
to hit the Syrian Air Force on the 
ground so it cannot take off. 

All of those should be considered as 
part of this study, as the most obvious, 
which is to make sure that the freedom 
fighters on the ground have their own 
antiaircraft weapons to fire from the 
ground at Assad’s aircraft so they can 
protect their own lives. 

The truth is, in supporting this 
amendment, I come to say that I continue 
to be troubled, deeply, by why 
the United States and so much of the 
rest of the civilized world is standing 
by and letting this happen. To me—and 
I speak only personally, and I do so 
with respect—getting involved in this 
on behalf of the opposition in Syria has 
been now for 18 months as close to a 
no-brainer as America ever has the opportunity 
to get involved in in foreign 
policy. 

I say that because from the beginning 
we knew which side was fighting 
for freedom and which side was against 
it. And America is supposed to be on 
the side of the freedom fighters. Secondly, 
this has developed into a humanitarian 
disaster: 40,000 people 
killed. And, third, we have not just humanitarian 
interests here and values 
interests, we have strategic interests 
because Assad’s government is the No. 
1 friend of our No. 1 enemy in the 
world, which is the Islamic Republic of 
Iran. If he goes down, Iran and its radical 
regime suffers a body blow. If we 
continue to stand back, we run the risk 
of terrible sectarian conflict in Syria, 
which runs the risk of spreading beyond, 
between Sunni and Shia, also between 
secular and religious modernizers 
and people who do not want to 
modernize. 

We have every good reason to come 
to the aid of these people in need, and 
I do not see an argument for not at 


S7388 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

least studying how we might better do 
that. 

I thank my colleagues. I am proud to 
support the amendment. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from Mississippi. 

Mr. WICKER. Madam President, I 
wonder if I might be able to proceed for 
1 minute before we begin the votes. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that 1 minute be 
added and that the Senator from Mississippi 
be recognized for that 1 
minute. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 

objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from Mississippi. 

Mr. WICKER. Madam President, I 
thank my colleagues for allowing me 
to breeze in here at the last moment. 

I would like to speak today about a 
Department of Defense policy that has 
an impact on American jobs and is in 
urgent need of greater transparency. 
Until recently, this policy picked industry 
winners and losers. We must ensure 
that the Federal Government’s 
adopted standards for green buildings 
are consensus-based, fair, and established 
by sound science. 

Before last year’s Defense authorization 
bill was signed into law, the Department 
of Defense exclusively recognized 
or showed preference for a single 
green building rating system. 

The U.S. Green Building Council’s 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design—or LEED—became 
DOD’s adopted benchmark for green 
building. 

This raised concerns, primarily because 
LEED standards are not developed 
in a transparent manner and do 
not allow meaningful input from all affected 
stakeholders. 

For example, for some reason LEED 
standards are unreasonably biased 
against American timber. 

Obtaining the highest LEED certifications 
often requires green buildings 
to exclude domestic wood. Instead, the 
use of bamboo, often shipped from 
overseas, is favored over more cost-efficient 
local timber. 

The next version of LEED threatens 
to eliminate the use of other approved 
materials and proven products that are 
currently used to achieve true energy 
savings. 

It makes sense to anticipate that a 
blanket adoption of LEED by the Department 
of Defense would have a significant 
impact on American industry. 

To put the scope of DOD’s green 
building policies into perspective: DOD 
has more than 500,000 facilities, covering 
more than 2 billion square feet. If 
we combined all of the nearly 5,000 
Wal-Mart buildings in America, it 
would make up about a third of DOD’s 
real estate. 

That is why I fought for language— 
included in the 2012 Defense authorization 
conference report—requiring DOD 
to conduct a cost-benefit analysis of 
various green building rating systems. 

Last year’s Defense authorization 
conference report prohibited the use of 
funds to implement LEED standards. 

This year, the Armed Services Committee 
accepted language I offered to 
extend the prohibition of funds for 
LEED until 6 months after the cost-
benefit study is reported to Congress. 

I look forward to the findings of this 
study but remain concerned about 
DOD’s adoption of any green building 
standards that are not transparent and 
consensus-based. 

I have yet another amendment that 
would direct DOD to utilize green 
building standards that are driven by 
consensus as determined by the American 
Nationa Standards nstitute, and 
include sufficient input from all affected 
stakeholders. 

My amendment also would support 
green building standards that consider 
the full environmental benefits provided 
by a building material throughout 
its lifetime. Life Cycle Assessment 
is a science-based approach used to 
measure these benefits. 

Together, I believe these provisions 
would create a level playing field for 
materials to compete for green building 
and energy savings in DOD construction. 


The Federal Government should be in 
the business of choosing winners and 
losers, Adoption of LEED only—or/any 
other green building standard not developed 
by consensus—would discriminate 
against American-made products, 
reduce transparency, impact jobs, and 
ultimately undermine energy savings 
and sustainability sought using taxpayer 
dollars. 

Although I am going to withhold my 
amendment, I will continue to closely 
monitor this issue to ensure that fair 
competition is part of DOD’s construction 
of green buildings. 

I want to thank the chairman, ranking 
member, and all the members of 
the committee. 

In conclusion, as we have learned, 
there is more than one way to have 
green building standards. The Defense 
Department has tilted toward the 
LEED standards in the past. I think we 
have authorized now a scientific analysis 
of other methods that is proceeding 
apace. I had planned to offer 
yet another amendment which would 
be withdrawn directing that the Department 
of Defense utilize green 
building standards that are driven by 
consensus as determined by the American 
National Standards Institute. As I 
say, I am withholding that amendment. 


I do appreciate the language that is 
in the bill now, and I think we will end 
up with green building standards that 
save energy and serve the purposes of 
national defense and do not tilt toward 
one industry over the other. 

I thank the Presiding Officer for her 
indulgence, I thank my colleagues on 
the committee, and I yield the floor. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3262, AS MODIFIED 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I very 
much support the amendment offered 
by Senator MCCAIN and thank him for 
it. 

The suffering of the Syrian people 
and, increasingly, the people of the region 
continues to grow daily. This 
amendment tells the Secretary of Defense 
and the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs that we want a classified assessment 
of the effectiveness of various 
military solutions to the problems that 
are there in Syria and in the region. 

This information is going to help inform 
Congress on the challenges and 
the obstacles to various solutions, including 
the very challenges and questions 
which were identified by Senator 
PAUL. Those are the kinds of questions—
not the total list, but the kinds 
of questions—which this assessment 
will help us to address. It will also help 
inform us about the budget and the 
policy decisions that the congressional 
defense committees make in the upcoming 
fiscal year. 

The principal purpose of this amendment, 
as is stated in the amendment, is 
‘‘to advance the goals of President 
Obama of stopping the killing of civilians 
in Syria and creating conditions 
for a transition to a democratic, pluralistic 
political system in Syria.’’ 
That is what is on the mind, I believe, 
of all of us. 

This report—an assessment, to use 
the word in the amendment—is critically 
important to Congress, and I very 
much support the effort of Senator 
MCCAIN and thank him for it. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I 
would point out again that section 
(d)(e) of this amendment says: 

NO AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF MILITARY 
FORCE.—Nothing in this section shall be construed 
as a declaration of war or an authorization 
for the use of force. 

And it will be in ‘‘classified form.’’ 

Yesterday, this was the front-page 
headline of the Washington Post: 
Obama Sternly Warns Syria. There is 
no doubt that as this conflict has 
dragged on and on, the risk of a wider 
conflict and terrible consequences can 
ensue. It is well known that Bashar 
Assad has a very large inventory of 
chemical weapons, including sarin gas, 
which is a deadly nerve agent. 

I am not predicting that the United 
States has to be involved, but there is 
very little doubt in anyone’s mind that 
as this conflict escalates, the risk of 
spreading, the risk of greater jihadist 
involvement, the greater risk of problems 
on the borders of Lebanon, of 
Iraq, of Jordan increase. 

And if military action has to be 
taken in order, for example, to prevent 
sarin gas to be used, the Congress of 
the United States has to be involved. 
We have a thing called the War Powers 
Act. The War Powers Act expressly 
calls that Congress make decisions. 
The Congress needs to be informed. I 
believe all this amendment does is informs, 
in a classified manner, the Defense 
committees so that we will have 
the information necessary to understand 
the various eventualities that 
could result in this terribly, terribly 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7389 

escalating and deteriorating situation 
in Syria. 

As my friend from Connecticut said, 
40,000 people have already been slaughtered. 
I think the U.S. Congress needs 
to be made aware not of what we 
should do but what we can do in case of 
that eventuality. I urge my colleagues 
to vote for the amendment. 

I thank my colleagues. I thank the 
Senator from Connecticut, the Senator 
from Delaware, and, of course, the 
chairman of the committee. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, all postcloture time 
is expired and the question occurs on 
agreeing to McCain amendment No. 
3262, as modified. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I ask 
for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

Mr. DURBIN. I anounce that the Senator 
from West Virginia (Mr. ROCKEFELLER) 
is necessarily absent. 

Mr. KYL. The following Senator is 
necessarily absent: the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. KIRK). 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber desiring 
to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 92, 
nays 6, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 220 Leg.] 

YEAS—92 
Akaka Gillibrand Moran 
Ayotte Graham Murkowski 
Barrasso Grassley Murray 
Baucus Hagan Nelson (NE) 
Begich 
Bennet 
Harkin 
Hatch 
Nelson (FL) 
Portman 
Bingaman 
Blumenthal 
Heller 
Hoeven 
Pryor 
Reed 
Blunt 
Boozman 
Boxer 
Brown (MA) 
Brown (OH) 
Burr 
Cantwell 
Cardin 
Carper 
Casey 
Chambliss 
Inhofe 
Inouye 
Isakson 
Johanns 
Johnson (SD) 
Johnson (WI) 
Kerry 
Klobuchar 
Kohl 
Kyl 
Landrieu 
Reid 
Risch 
Roberts 
Rubio 
Sanders 
Schumer 
Sessions 
Shaheen 
Shelby 
Snowe 
Coats 
Coburn 
Cochran 
Lautenberg 
Leahy 
Levin 
Stabenow 
Tester 
Thune 
Collins Lieberman Toomey 
Conrad 
Coons 
Lugar 
Manchin 
Udall (CO) 
Udall (NM) 
Corker McCain Vitter 
Cornyn McCaskill Warner 
Crapo McConnell Webb 
Enzi Menendez Whitehouse 
Feinstein Merkley Wicker 
Franken Mikulski Wyden 
NAYS—6 
Alexander Durbin Lee 
DeMint Hutchison Paul 

NOT VOTING—2 

Kirk Rockefeller 

The amendment (No. 3262), as modified, 
was agreed to. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I 
move to reconsider, and I move to lay 
that motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

KYL AMENDMENT NO. 3213, AS MODIFIED 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, amendment No. 
3123, as modified, is agreed to. 

EXPORT CONTROLS REFORM 

Mr. BENNET. Madam President, I 
rise to engage the chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee in a colloquy. 


Mr. LEVIN. I would be happy to have 
a colloquy with the Senator from Colorado. 


Mr. BENNET. Earlier this year, I introduced 
a bill that reforms export 
controls on satellites and their related 
items. Under the current law, satellites 
must be subject to the most restrictive 
export controls regardless of whether 
they are sensitive, militarily significant, 
or widely available outside of the 

U.S. This has both diminished our Nation’s 
economic competitiveness and 
our national security. In fact, the 
State and Defense departments recently 
concluded that the ‘‘current law 
forces the U.S. Government to continue 
to protect commonly available 
satellites and related items on the 
USML, thus impeding the U.S. ability 
to work with partners and putting U.S. 
manufacturers at a disadvantage, but 
providing no noticeable benefit to national 
security.’’ 
My bill reforms our export control 
laws so that the executive branch has 
the discretion to determine the appropriate 
level of export controls for satellites 
and related items. The executive 
branch currently has such discretion 
for all other types of items whether the 
item serves a military or a dual-use 
purpose. The bill also prohibits the 
transfer of such items to China, North 
Korea, and state sponsors of terrorism. 

Last week, I filed an amendment to 
the defense authorization bill that mirrors 
my legislation. Senators RUBIO, 
WARNER, MARK UDALL, and CARDIN cosponsored 
the measure. While I had 
hoped to offer and pass our amendment, 
it is my understanding that the 
chairman intends to address these reforms 
in conference. Is my understanding 
correct? 

Mr. LEVIN. I first want to thank the 
Senator from Colorado for his work on 
reforming our Nation’s export control 
laws. The House version of the National 
Defense Authorization Act includes 
provisions addressing these 
issues. I support his efforts in this area 
and I intend to work with the House of 
Representatives to address these reforms 
in conference. 

Mr. BENNET. I thank the chairman 
for his support and assurance. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3054 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I rise 
to explain the scope of, and intent behind, 
my amendment on naval vessel 
naming. Amendment No. 3054, as modified, 
to the National Defense Authorization 
Act for fiscal year 2013 is a direct 
response to recent criticism that 
the Secretary of the Navy has, in some 
instances, politicized the ship naming 
process. 

Since its establishment, the U.S. 
Navy has developed a rich tradition of 

vessel naming. Traditional sources for 
vessel names customarily encompassed 
categories such as geographic locations 
in the United States; historic sites, 
battles, and ships; naval and military 
heroes and leaders; and, other noted individuals 
who have made distinguished 
contributions to the Navy or our Nation’s 
national security. The name the 
Navy selects for a vessel should reflect 
the very best of our Nation’s and our 
Navy’s great heritage. It should impart 
a sense of honor and serve as an inspiration 
for the vessel’s crew. It should 
not, in any way, be tarnished by controversy. 
Unfortunately, controversy 
and criticism have surrounded some of 
the Secretary’s recent vessel naming 
choices. 

This amendment seeks to avoid similar 
controversy in the future. It sets 
forth necessary and appropriate standards, 
grounded in historical practice, 
to guide the Secretary of the Navy’s 
decisions on vessel naming. It requires 
that the Secretary assure the Senate 
and House Committees on Armed Services 
that the proposed vessel name 
comports with those standards 30 days 
before announcing or assigning a vessel’s 
name. 

Under the procedure established by 
my amendment, I fully intend and expect 
that the Navy will not move forward 
with any vessel naming proposal, 
unless the Congressional defense committees 
approve. Much as the Department 
of Defense seeks prior approval 
for reprogramming requests, the Secretary 
of the Navy should secure the 
prior approval of the Congressional defense 
committees before announcing or 
implementing a vessel naming proposal. 


I take no joy or pride in this amendment, 
but believe it is necessitated by 
the spate of controversies over the last 
few years. I sincerely hope the amendment 
helps the U.S. Navy preserve the 
high standards it has traditionally employed 
for vessel naming. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2943 

Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I was 
very pleased that the Senate adopted 
last night an amendment to improve 
the Law Enforcement Officers Safety 
Act, LEOSA. I was pleased to join Senator 
WEBB, a member of the Senate 
Armed Services Committee, as a cosponsor 
to strengthen a policy that is 
important to our Nation’s law enforcement 
community. I thank Chairman 
LEVIN and Senator WEBB for their efforts. 


The amendment we adopt today will 
place military police and civilian police 
officers within the Department of 
Defense on equal footing with their law 
enforcement counterparts across the 
country when it comes to coverage 
under LEOSA. The LEOSA law permits 
active and qualified retired law enforcement 
officers to carry a concealed 
firearm across State lines. This law, 
which has been in place since 2004, 
gives our law enforcement officers, 
should they choose, the peace of mind 
that they are protected wherever they 
may be. 


S7390 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

One of the qualifications required of 
active or retired officers to be covered 
by the LEOSA law is that they must 
have ‘‘statutory arrest authority’’. 
Some law enforcement personnel within 
the Department of Defense do have 
such statutory arrest authority. Others 
do not. For example, civilian police officers 
that conduct law enforcement 
activities on military bases or installations 
derive their authority from the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice. This 
authority, while statutory, is ‘‘apprehension’’ 
authority. Due to that difference 
between the LEOSA law’s specific 
enumerated requirements, and the 
authority pursuant to which civilian 
police in the military operate, these 
law enforcement officers have not been 
able to obtain the law’s benefits. 

To remedy this, the amendment we 
have adopted will expressly include 
within the LEOSA statute currently 
non-covered civilian police officers and 
military police. It will do so by adding 
a statutory citation within Title 18 of 
the United States Code to the relevant 
portion of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice. This will provide legal 
certainty for the Department of Defense, 
and will provide the needed 
LEOSA coverage for currently non-covered 
law enforcement personnel within 
the military. 

The Senate has agreed unanimously 
to extend LEOSA to the law enforcement 
officers that serve within our 
military who are currently not eligible 
for coverage under LEOSA. They are 
no less deserving or worthy of this 
privilege and I am very pleased we have 
acted to equalize their treatment under 
the Federal law. Given the productive 
discussions we have had with the Department 
of Defense Office of Law Enforcement 
Policy and Support, and 
with Chairman LEVIN in developing 
this amendment. I expect that it will 
be implemented without delay so that 
those intended to be covered may gain 
the law’s benefit quickly. These police 
officers, who largely perform the same 
duties as their counterparts elsewhere 
in the Federal Government and at the 
State and local level, deserve the equal 
treatment this amendment will provide. 


Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, today I 
wish to discuss what more we can do to 
prevent the scourge of suicides among 
our servicemembers. I have been concerned 
for quite some time about the 
physical and psychological challenges 
facing the men and women who serve 
in our military, including the unique 
challenges faced by members of the National 
Guard and Reserve. 

Despite a variety of programs to address 
the rate of suicide among National 
Guard and Reserve personnel, 
current statistics raise ongoing concerns 
about what more we can do to address 
this serious issue. In 2011, 165 Ac-
tive-Duty soldiers and 118 Guard and 
Reservists took their lives, and the 
Army is on track to meet or surpass 
the same number of suicide related 
deaths again this year. 

I appreciate that the Armed Services 
Committee has included Section 512 in 
the fiscal year 2013 National Defense 
Authorization Act, which establishes a 
suicide prevention and resiliency program 
specifically for the reserve component 
of the military. In order for 
these programs to succeed, all members 
of a community must work together 
and watch out for one another. 
This includes involving the private sector 
and universities, who can contribute 
valuable resources. I would 
note that the Department’s Office of 
Suicide Prevention, in carrying out 
Section 512 and 722 of this bill, must 
work with private sector and university 
partners to develop and implement 
suicide prevention training for community-
based organizations, including 
schools, hospitals, religious organizations 
and employers, to raise awareness 
and provide tools for intervention 
to members of the National Guard and 
Reserve and their families. Universities 
and researchers, including those 
throughout Pennsylvania, have explored 
this issue and stand ready to 
support our returning servicemembers. 

This is a national challenge and Congress 
must work hand in hand with the 
Departments of Defense and Veterans 
Affairs as well with State and local 
community leaders to end this terrible 
epidemic. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3232 

Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I 
would first like to take this time to 
thank my colleagues Senator MENENDEZ 
and Senator KIRK for putting forth 
a comprehensive plan to arm the administration 
with the tools they need 
to put a stop to Iran’s rogue nuclear 
program and for working to put together 
the final text of this amendment. 


Look, time’s a-wasting, so we need to 
ratchet up the sanctions now. 

And rest assured—this is a powerful 
package that will paralyze the Iranian 
economy. 

I believe that when it comes to Iran, 
we should never take the military option 
off the table. But I have long argued 
that economic sanctions are the 
preferred and probably most effective 
way to choke Iran’s nuclear ambitions. 

It should come as no surprise that 
today the head of International Atomic 
Energy Agency, IAEA, suggested that 
his inspectors in Iran are coming under 
increased duress amid fears that the 
Iranian regime might be aspiring to 
make atomic arms. And according to 
published reports, Iran could have at 
least one workable nuclear weapon by 
next year and another maybe 6 months 
after that. This cannot be allowed! 

Additionally, the IAEA has reported 
that Iran possesses a highly organized 
program dedicated to acquiring the 
skills necessary to produce and test a 
nuclear bomb. 

Earlier this year, Director of National 
Intelligence Jim Clapper told 
the Senate Intelligence Committee 
that Iran’s leaders seem prepared to attack 
U.S. interests overseas. 

Just last year we saw U.S. authorities 
successfully thwart an Iranian plot 
to assassinate the Saudi ambassador in 
this very city. 

So by giving the administration the 
capability to tighten their crippling 
sanctions on Iran should they continue 
with their nuclear weapons program, 
the Senate is continuing to address the 
very real threat Iran poses to the 
United States and our allies, particularly 
Israel. 

And make no mistake—after Hamas 
initiated their bloody rocket attacks 
against innocent civilians in Israel last 
month, who did they thank afterwards? 
They actually thanked Iran for their 
support in helping make ‘‘Israel scream 
with pain.’’ Iran sends rockets to terrorist 
groups to kill innocent civilians. 
That is just one out of many reasons 
why the international community just 
cannot allow Iran to have a nuclear 
weapons capability. 

This bill will do several important 
things to strangle Iran’s ability to continue 
with its illegal nuclear program. 

First, it designates Iran’s energy, 
port, shipping, and shipbuilding sectors 
as ‘‘entities of proliferation concern’’ 
due to the role they play in supporting 
Iran’s proliferation activities. 

Secondly, it blocks and prohibits all 
transactions in property in the United 
States by any person who is part of 
Iran’s energy, port, and shipping sectors. 


Additionally, it sanctions the sale, 
supply, and transfer of certain materials 
and precious metals to Iran. 

And importantly, this bill sanctions 
foreign financial institutions for knowingly 
conducting transactions on behalf 
of any sanctioned Iranian person. 

Mr. President, I believe my colleagues 
Senator MENENDEZ and Senator 
KIRK have done an excellent job ensuring 
that the administration has the 
tools they need to put a stop to Iran’s 
rogue nuclear program. 

I strongly urge my colleagues to support 
this amendment. 

Mrs. HAGAN. Madam President, as 
we conclude our work on S. 3254, the 
fiscal year 2013 National Defense Authorization 
Act, I would like to draw 
attention to yet another important 
role my State is playing in our national 
defense. 

North Carolina is home to the two 
major lithium suppliers in the United 
States. Not only are these important 
employers in my State, but they are 
serving our defense industry with critical 
materials that are vital to our Nation’s 
defense capabilities both now 
and in the future. 

The Defense Department has recognized 
through its Defense Production 
Act Title III office that ‘‘Li Ion batteries 
are extremely attractive to military 
customers with the most demanding 
set of requirements such as the 
space/satellite communities for spacecraft 
applications and the Special Operation 
forces.’’ 

Lithium metal is an important component 
in a wide range of defense applications. 
For over a decade, the US 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7391 

military has been widely using non-rechargeable—
primary—lithium batteries 
to provide power for mines, missiles, 
torpedoes, sonobuoys, guided artillery, 
fuses, communication devices, 
countermeasure devices, global positioning 
systems, and guidance systems. 
Presently, primary lithium batteries 
are the power source of choice for a 
majority of devices that a servicemember 
uses in combat and realistic training 
operations. An infantryman on a 
72-hour mission in Afghanistan carries 
around 30 pounds of batteries. Lithium 
metal used in these defense applications 
affords today’s Armed Forces 
fluid movement on the battlefield and 
in remote areas. 

We need to remain vigilant to the 
world’s lithium supply situation. Offshore 
suppliers of lithium are poised to 
expand their capacity at the risk of domestic 
U.S. lithium production capability. 
It will be essential to our future 
national defense needs that we are able 
protect and enhance our domestic supply 
chain of battery-grade lithium 
metal. 

Mr. President, I recognize the importance 
of this industry to our Nation’s 
defense. I am proud that over 600 men 
and women in my State are dedicated 
to creating these critical materials for 
our Armed services and urge that we 
continue to recognize the essential role 
this industry plays in our future defense 
strategies. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3291 

Mr. PRYOR. Madam President, I 
want to thank Chairman LEVIN and 
Ranking Member MCCAIN for the work 
they have done on the National Defense 
Authorization and for working 
with me on this amendment. 

This bipartisan amendment, the 
Helping Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans 
Return to Employment, HIRE, at 
Home Act, introduced by myself and 
Senator JOHANNS encourages states to 
consider the training servicemembers 
receive during active duty when determining 
eligibility for State licenses 
and certifications. 

This amendment will encourage 
States to consider the specialized military 
training and experience service-
members acquire on active duty as filling 
all or some of the State certification 
and licensing requirements. 
Specifically, the amendment will apply 
to individuals seeking employment as 
commercial truck drivers, certified 
nursing assistants or emergency medical 
technicians. 

By eliminating the expensive and 
time consuming hurdles servicemembers 
often face, this amendment will 
help ensure our returning veterans 
come home to new job opportunities 
and help lower the high unemployment 
rate among our young veterans. 

Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I 
rise in support of the National Defense 
Authorization Act, NDAA, for Fiscal 
Year 2013. I wish to commend Senator 
LEVIN and Senator MCCAIN for their 
leadership in bringing this legislation 
to the floor. The Senate has passed the 

NDAA every year for over one-half century. 
Senators LEVIN and MCCAIN have 
played a key role on NDAA over the 
past several years, and I am grateful 
for their dedication and concern for the 
men and women of our Armed Forces 
and the defense of the Nation. 

I am pleased that NDAA, as amended, 
includes three of my amendments, including 
a sense of the Senate resolution 
regarding conflict-induced displacements 
in Afghanistan. As Afghan 
refugees are being pushed into faster 
repatriation, they are often forced into 
returning to a country where they have 
little or no hope. In particular, Pakistan, 
which has hosted Afghan refugees 
for more than 30 years, plans to cancel 
refugee status for the 3 million Afghans 
at the end of this year. Forcing 
these refugees back into Afghanistan 
would only exacerbate the crisis for a 
country that is still struggling with an 
ongoing insurgency, an economy dependent 
on U.S. foreign assistance, and 
the impending withdraw of NATO 
troops in 2014. 

According to the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees, 
UNHCR, more than 5.7 million refugees 
have returned to Afghanistan since 
2002, increasing the population of the 
country by approximately 25 percent. 
In both urban and rural areas, however, 
more than 40 percent of the returnees 
have not integrated into their home 
communities. In addition to difficulties 
returning refugees face, internal displacement 
has been dramatically on 
the rise. 

The conflict-induced displaced Afghans 
face numerous challenges due to 
continuing violence, tribal conflicts, 
lack of land tenure and housing, limited 
opportunities to earn a livelihood, 
and reduced access to public services 
and water. As winter approaches, I am 
especially concerned for the children 
who will be vulnerable to the harsh 
weather and illnesses likely to occur 
from living in such severe conditions. 
Last winter, there were many reports 
of children freezing to death in settlement 
camps and other temporary shelters. 


The sense of the Senate resolution 
not only expresses these concerns for 
the dramatic rise in conflict-induced 
displacements in Afghanistan and the 
corresponding humanitarian needs; it 
also recommends that the Department 
of State’s Bureau of Population, Refugees 
& Migration and the Special Representative 
for Afghanistan and Pakistan 
jointly develop a comprehensive 
strategy to address these displacement 
issues. 

I am also pleased that the Senate 
passed my two amendments to add the 
Coast Guard to the current baseline 
NDAA sections addressing military diversity 
and military hazing. Nearly 2 
years ago, the Military Leadership Diversity 
Commission issued a report 
with 20 recommendations to the Armed 
Forces, including the Coast Guard. The 
Commission found that the services’ 
leadership does not reflect the diver


sity of the enlisted members they lead 
or the American population they fight 
to protect. While the Coast Guard has 
made strides in addressing its lack of 
diversity among women and minorities, 
it still has significant obstacles to 
overcome. For instance, of the 91 graduates 
of the Coast Guard’s Officer Candidate 
School last year, only five were 
African-American, four were Asian, 
and nine were Hispanic. The Coast 
Guard can and must do better to enhance 
diversity among its senior leadership, 
which will have a positive impact 
for generations to come. And like 
other branches of the Armed Forces, 
the Coast Guard continues to suffer 
from hazing incidents. Just last year, 
seven members of the Coast Guard 
were found to have tied down their fellow 
crew members and performed sexual 
hazing on them. 

I am also pleased that the Senate 
adopted the Feinstein amendment, 
which restricts the ability of the U.S. 
Government to detain without charge 
or trial U.S. citizens or lawful permanent 
residents suspected of carrying 
out terrorist activities. The role our civilian-
led military plays within the 
borders of the United States has always 
been balanced with the protections 
of civil liberties, civil rights, and 
the due process of law. 

On the subject of detainees, however, 
I am disappointed that the Senate approved 
the Ayotte amendment, which 
prohibits the use of funds for transferring 
or releasing detainees from the detention 
facilities at Guantanamo Bay, 
Cuba, for prosecution and trial in the 
United States. In my view, any provision 
that extends the life of detention 
facilities at Guantanamo Bay unnecessarily 
sullies America’s human rights 
record. The Ayotte amendment also 
represents a significant cost burden 
going forward for the U.S. Government, 
as it would force the Guantanamo Bay 
detention facility to remain open indefinitely. 
The Ayotte amendment also 
handicaps our Federal courts. Our Federal 
courts—unlike military tribunals—
have an excellent track record of 
trying and convicting the most dangerous 
criminals and terrorists in the 
world, and Congress should not tie the 
hands of our law enforcement and intelligence 
agencies to use our Article 
III courts. Our Federal prison system 
can also securely hold for life those 
convicted of terrorism offenses. 

When it comes to personnel issues, I 
support the baseline NDAA bill, which 
will improve the quality of life for our 
men and women in uniform and their 
families. The bill provides a 1.7-percent 
pay increase for all Active, Reserve, 
and Guard servicemembers. The bill 
prevents the Department of Defense 
from increasing TRICARE deductibles 
and annual catastrophic caps and levying 
enrollment fees for TRICARE 
Standard and TRICARE for Life. Also, 
the bill further advances service opportunities 
for women by directing the 
Secretary of Defense to make further 
regulatory and statutory changes in 


S7392 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

combat-related restrictions. Finally, I 
want to commend the Senate Armed 
Services Committee for authorizing 
veterans to participate in the Transition 
Assistance Program for 1 year 
after their discharge so that they can 
be better prepared to lead a productive 
civilian life. 

On another crucial personnel matter, 
however, I am deeply disappointed that 
the Senate defeated my amendment to 
prevent an across-the-board cut to the 
Defense civilian workforce that could 
lead to an additional 36,000 government 
job losses in the coming years. These 
cuts—on top of cuts that already will 
occur—would be made without consideration 
to required workload, mission, 
or funding as currently required by 
law. The Senate version of NDAA, if 
unchanged, will force an arbitrary, sequestration-
type of cut in the DOD’s 
civilian workforce, injuring the defense 
industrial base and undermining economic 
recovery. There is a better way 
to make judicious personnel decisions 
in the Department of Defense than the 
bill’s section 341. I hope the NDAA conferees 
will heed the administration’s 
deep concerns with regard to section 
341, which the House NDAA—H.R. 
4310—does not include. 

A bill this large and complex won’t 
please everybody entirely. I have just 
outlined some of the provisions I support 
and some of the provisions I don’t 
support. I will vote to pass NDAA to 
advance it to conference. H.R. 4310, like 

S. 3254, has good and bad provisions, in 
my estimation. For instance, it contains 
provisions that further restrict 
the transfer of Guantanamo detainees 
into the United States or foreign countries, 
and it limits the administration’s 
ability to implement the New START 
Treaty or to set U.S. nuclear weapon 
policy to further nuclear force reduction. 
But, on the other hand, it doesn’t 
contain section 341. I hope the legislation 
the conferees report will be something 
I can support. 
Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I will 
be very brief. I feel so grateful and so 
proud that the tradition of our committee 
and this Senate has been maintained 
on our 51st consecutive Defense 
authorization bill, a bill that is so vitally 
important to the Nation. I am 
grateful to all of our colleagues for 
working on a bipartisan basis through 
the normal and open legislative process 
to produce this bill. I am grateful to 
stand here with my partner, Senator 
MCCAIN—we worked together on this 
bill—to all of the members of the committee, 
to our staff and the floor and 
cloakroom staff. We passed over 100 
amendments. It was a process that allowed 
us to be just as accommodating 
as we humanly could. 

One person I wish to single out as 
someone who has worked for the committee 
for 41 years—this will be her 
last year—is Chris Cowart. She is our 
chief clerk, and I would like to take an 
additional 2 seconds to mention her 
name as a symbol of the staff for whom 
we are so grateful. 

I don’t know if Senator MCCAIN is 
here, but I know that I speak for him 
about our staffs and about our colleagues 
on the committee. 

I yield the floor. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
for a third reading and was read the 
third time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill 
having been read the third time, the 
question is, Shall it pass? 

Mr. BAUCUS. I ask for the yeas and 
nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the 
Senator from West Virginia (Mr. 
ROCKEFELLER) is necessarily absent. 

Mr. KYL. The following Senator is 
necessarily absent: the Senator from 
Illinois (Mr. KIRK). 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
CASEY). Are there any other Senators 
in the Chamber desiring to vote? 

The result was announced—yes 98, 
nays 0, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 221 Leg.] 

YEAS—98 
Akaka Franken Mikulski 
Alexander Gillibrand Moran 
Ayotte Graham Murkowski 
Barrasso Grassley Murray 
Baucus 
Begich 
Bennet 
Hagan 
Harkin 
Hatch 
Nelson (NE) 
Nelson (FL) 
Paul 
Bingaman Heller Portman 
Blumenthal 
Blunt 
Boozman 
Boxer 
Brown (MA) 
Brown (OH) 
Burr 
Cantwell 
Cardin 
Carper 
Casey 
Chambliss 
Coats 
Hoeven 
Hutchison 
Inhofe 
Inouye 
Isakson 
Johanns 
Johnson (SD) 
Johnson (WI) 
Kerry 
Klobuchar 
Kohl 
Kyl 
Landrieu 
Pryor 
Reed 
Reid 
Risch 
Roberts 
Rubio 
Sanders 
Schumer 
Sessions 
Shaheen 
Shelby 
Snowe 
Coburn 
Cochran 
Collins 
Lautenberg 
Leahy 
Lee 
Stabenow 
Tester 
Thune 
Conrad Levin Toomey 
Coons Lieberman Udall (CO) 
Corker Lugar Udall (NM) 
Cornyn Manchin Vitter 
Crapo McCain Warner 
DeMint McCaskill Webb 
Durbin McConnell Whitehouse 
Enzi Menendez Wicker 
Feinstein Merkley Wyden 

NOT VOTING—2 

Kirk Rockefeller 

The bill (S. 3254), as amended, was 
passed. 

(The bill will be printed in a future 
edition of the RECORD.) 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Committee on 
Armed Services is discharged from further 
consideration of H.R. 4310, and the 
Senate will proceed to the consideration 
of the measure, which the clerk 
will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 4310) to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2013 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities 
of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 

military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, all after the enacting 
clause is stricken, and the text of 

S. 3254 as passed is inserted in lieu 
thereof. 
The clerk will read the title of the 
bill for the third time. 
The amendment was ordered to be 
engrossed and the bill to be read a 
third time. 

The bill was read the third time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, H.R. 4310, as amended, 
is passed, and the motion to reconsider 
is considered made and laid upon 
the table. 

Under the previous order, the Senate 
insists on its amendment, requests a 
conference with the House, and the 
Chair appoints the following conferees: 

Mr. LEVIN, Mr. LIEBERMAN, Mr. REED 
of Rhode Island, Mr. AKAKA, Mr. NELSON 
of Nebraska, Mr. WEBB, Mrs. 
MCCASKILL, Mr. UDALL of Colorado, 
Mrs. HAGAN, Mr. BEGICH, Mr. MANCHIN, 
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. 
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. INHOFE, 
Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. CHAMBLISS, Mr. 
WICKER, Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts, 
Mr. PORTMAN, Ms. AYOTTE, Ms. COLLINS, 
Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. CORNYN, and Mr. 
VITTER. 

f 

RUSSIA AND MOLDOVA JACKSON-

VANIK REPEAL ACT OF 2012—MO


TION TO PROCEED 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I now move 
to proceed to calendar No. 552, H.R. 
6156, which is the Russia-Moldova trade 
agreement. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the motion. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

Motion to proceed to calendar No. 552, H.R. 
6156, an act to authorize the extension of 
nondiscriminatory treatment (normal trade 
relations treatment) to products of the Russian 
Federation and Moldova and to require 
reports on the compliance of the Russian 
Federation with its obligations as a member 
of the World Trade Organization, and for 
other purposes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I wish to 
thank the chairman for his patience in 
allowing this legislation to be completed. 
I would note that there were 145 
amendments and many recorded votes 
and good debate and discussion over 
very important issues. 

I also wish to say thank you to the 
majority leader. 

I wish to note the good work of the 
staff, showing again that work release 
programs can be successful. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, if I could 
say a word, I was looking for an opportunity 
to express my appreciation to 
the two managers of this bill. 

This has been hard, but they have 
done an excellent job. There is nothing 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7393 

more important we do here than make 
sure that our fighting men and women 
have the resources to do what they 
need to do for our country, and there 
are no two better managers that we 
could have on this bill than these two 
fine Senators. I appreciate very much 
their hard work. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, while the 
leader is here, I would add my thanks 
to the majority leader. This could not 
have happened without the willingness 
of the majority leader to take a little 
bit of risk at this time of year with so 
few days left. 

Senator MCCAIN and I told the majority 
leader that we thought we could do 
it in 3 days, and I want you to know 
that we did it in 3 days. We don’t count 
half days. If we counted half days, it 
took us more than 3 days, I must confess 
to the majority leader. But, nonetheless, 
the majority leader was willing 
to let us start down this road. And we 
did it in a unanimous way. I think it is 
only the second time in 51 years that 
there has been a unanimous vote on a 
Defense authorization bill, and it is because 
of the willingness and determination 
of our leadership that we proceed 
with this bill and that we allow the 
kind of process to occur that we did 
and to take the time we did, and I am 
very grateful. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I took no 
risk, because Senator LEVIN from 
Michigan and Senator MCCAIN from Arizona 
said, We will finish the bill in 3 
days. So I had no risk because I knew 
that is what they would do. We may 
have spilled over a few hours, but basically 
they held to their agreement. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Again, I thank the majority 
leader and my friend from Michigan. 


I do want to thank our staff who 
worked many long hours, long after we 
had shut down regular business. They 
continued to work through a total of 
392 amendments that were filed on this 
legislation. I appreciate the hard work 
and the cooperative spirit that enabled 
us not only to dispose of the amendments, 
but also I heard no complaint 
from any Member that their amendment 
did not get the consideration 
they felt it deserved. I think that is 
pretty remarkable, and I thank them. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Connecticut. 

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I 
want to join in thanking the chairman 
of the Armed Services Committee, Senator 
LEVIN, and the distinguished ranking 
member, Senator MCCAIN, for the 
extraordinary bipartisan work they 
have done on this measure, and also 
the accommodation and consideration 
they have given to all of us who have 
proposed amendments, as well as to 
their staff and the majority leader. 

On behalf of Connecticut, which produces 
many of the key products that 
are affected by this bill, such as the 
Joint Strike Fighter, our submarines, 
and the Sikorsky helicopter, we have a 

great deal of pride in the support that 
the U.S. Senate has given today to our 
national defense and the production of 
these products. 

f 

ANIMAL FIGHTING SPECTATOR 
PROHIBITION ACT 

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Agriculture, 
Nutrition and Forestry Committee 
be discharged from further consideration 
of S. 1947, and that the Senate 
proceed to its consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the bill by title. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

A bill (S. 1947) to prohibit attendance of an 
animal fighting venture, and for other purposes. 


There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. I ask unanimous 
consent that the Blumenthal amendment, 
which is at the desk, be agreed 
to and that the bill, as amended, be 
read a third time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment (No. 3309) was agreed 
to, as follows: 

On page 2, line 21, insert ‘‘knowingly’’ before 
‘‘cause’’. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
for a third reading and was read the 
third time. 

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I 
recognize that the hour is late. I wish 
to take a very brief moment to thank 
my colleagues, beginning with Senator 
KIRK and Senator BROWN—my distinguished 
colleagues from Illinois and 
Massachusetts—who have done such 
great work on this measure over many 
months, as well as Senator CANTWELL 
of Washington and other colleagues 
who have cosponsored this measure, including 
Senators COLLINS, FEINSTEIN, 
GILLIBRAND, KERRY, LANDRIEU, 
MERKLEY, MIKULSKI, MURRAY, VITTER, 
and WYDEN. They are all tireless advocates 
for animals. 

This bill is about ending animal 
fighting which, plainly and simply, is a 
blood sport. It is cruel and inhumane. 
It leaves animals scarred and disabled. 
And, it is associated with many other 
criminal activities. People who attend 
animal fights are often also engaged in 
drug dealing, extortion, assault, and a 
variety of other crimes, and the enabling 
activity is animal fighting. 

That is why this bill increases the 
penalties for knowingly attending an 
animal fight with a child and, indeed, 
makes it a crime to knowingly attend 
an animal fight. These stricter penalties 
are contingent upon a purposeful 
support for this cruel and inhumane 
sport. 

Very simply, this legislation provides 
new tools to law enforcement for eliminating 
not only animal fighting, but 
also the activities that may be attendant 
to them. 

Animal fighting is a Federal matter, 
and it requires a Federal response. This 
is particularly important because an 

animal fighting ring often involves 
players from many different States. 
Under current law, a county sheriff or 
a local prosecutor simply lacks the authority 
to root out, apprehend, and effectively 
prosecute such an operation. 

This bill has the support of many law 
enforcement organizations whom 
thank, including the Federal Law Enforcement 
Officers Association and 
Fraternal Order of Police. County sheriffs 
from across the country have also 
signed on as supporters, along with the 
American Veterinary Medical Association 
and the Humane Society of the 
United States. I hope it will have support 
from this Chamber. 

Mr. President, I ask for a voice vote. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
further debate? 
If not, the question is on passage of 
the bill. 
The bill (S. 1947), as amended, was 
passed, as follows: 
S. 1947 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Animal 
Fighting Spectator Prohibition Act of 2011’’. 

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON ATTENDING AN ANIMAL 

FIGHT OR CAUSING A MINOR TO AT


TEND AN ANIMAL FIGHT. 

Section 26 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 

U.S.C. 2156) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) in the heading, by striking ‘‘SPONSORING 
OR EXHIBITING AN ANIMAL IN’’ and inserting 
‘‘SPONSORING OR EXHIBITING AN ANIMAL 
IN, ATTENDING, OR CAUSING A MINOR TO 
ATTEND’’; 
(B) in paragraph (1)— 
(i) in the heading, by striking ‘‘IN GENERAL’’ 
and inserting ‘‘SPONSORING OR EXHIBITING’’; 
and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘paragraph (2)’’ and inserting 
‘‘paragraph (3)’’; 
(C) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
(3); and 
(D) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(2) ATTENDING OR CAUSING A MINOR TO ATTEND.—
It shall be unlawful for any person 
to— 

‘‘(A) knowingly attend an animal fighting 
venture; or 
‘‘(B) knowingly cause a minor to attend an 
animal fighting venture.’’; and 

(2) in subsection (g), by adding at the end 
the following new paragraph: 
‘‘(5) the term ‘minor’ means a person under 
the age of 18 years old.’’. 

SEC. 3. ENFORCEMENT OF ANIMAL FIGHTING 
PROHIBITIONS. 

Section 49 of title 18, United States Code, 
is amended— 

(1) by striking ‘‘Whoever’’ and inserting 
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Whoever’’; 
(2) in subsection (a), as designated by paragraph 
(1) of this section, by striking ‘‘subsection 
(a),’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection 
(a)(1),’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following new 
subsections: 
‘‘(b) ATTENDING AN ANIMAL FIGHTING VEN-
TURE.—Whoever violates subsection (a)(2)(A) 
of section 26 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 

U.S.C. 2156) shall be fined under this title, 
imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both, 
for each violation. 
‘‘(c) CAUSING A MINOR TO ATTEND AN ANIMAL 
FIGHTING VENTURE.—Whoever violates 


S7394 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

subsection (a)(2)(B) of section 26 (7 U.S.C. 
2156) of the Animal Welfare Act shall be fined 
under this title, imprisoned for not more 
than 3 years, or both, for each violation.’’. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Iowa. 

Mr. HARKIN. First of all, I commend 
and compliment my friend from Connecticut 
for sponsoring this bill and 
pushing it through. Animal fighting is 
a despicable thing to be engaged in. To 
think people take their kids there, and 
families. It is something we should not 
be doing and I thank the Senator for 
his leadership on that issue, getting 
the bill passed. 

CONVENTION ON THE RIGHTS OF PERSONS WITH 
DISABILITIES 

I want to take the floor for a few moments. 
I know others want to speak. 
They were kind enough to let me get in 
front of them. I want to comment for a 
couple of minutes on the vote today on 
the Convention on the Rights of Persons 
With Disabilities. I said off the 
floor that this was a shameful day for 
the Senate, and I meant it. Today was 
a shameful day for the Senate. To turn 
our backs on a convention, a treaty 
which was based upon the Americans 
With Disabilities Act in our own country 
that is now 22 years old and has 
done so much to enhance opportunities 
for people with disabilities and their 
families, to turn our backs on that for 
no real reason is something I have a 
hard time comprehending, and I have 
been in the Senate a long time now. 

There are reasons people can come up 
with a vote this way or that on certain 
things and most times they are very legitimate. 
People might have some legitimate 
concerns about a bill or an 
amendment. I could find no legitimate 
concerns about the Convention on the 
Rights of People With Disabilities—legitimate 
concerns. We heard all this 
talk about home schoolers, people who 
are homeschooling their kids, the U.N. 
was going to come in and take them 
away—nonsense, utter, sheer nonsense. 

What happened today was the triumph 
on the Senate floor of fear. Unfounded, 
unreasonable fear triumphed 
over experience—the experience we 
have had with the Americans With Disabilities 
Act, reasoned, rational 
thought—unfounded fears that somehow, 
someplace, somebody is going to 
do something. Out of the U.N. they are 
going to come in and take over or 
something. But we proved beyond any 
shadow of a doubt that none of our 
laws had to be changed. This gave the 

U.N. no authority over our country or 
our laws or anything. Yet this unfounded 
fear took hold to the point 
where people who were sponsors of the 
bill voted against it. Sponsors of it now 
turned around and voted against it. 
Again, for what reason? Unfounded 
fear. 
What message did we send today to 
the rest of the world? A message that, 
OK, we are pretty good. We did a lot of 
good stuff in terms of passing legislation 
to uphold the rights of people with 
disabilities, to break down barriers, 

give people with disabilities opportunities 
the same as everyone else. We have 
become a better country for it, a better 
Nation. 

Other countries have come to us over 
the intervening last 22 years to find 
out how we did it, what they could do. 
So here the United Nations said we 
would come up with a convention, a 
treaty for all countries, and put it up 
for them to sign it, encouraging them 
to emulate what we did. This would be 
giving us a seat at the table helping 
other countries to bring their laws 
more up to what ours are in terms of 
the rights of people with disabilities. 

But we turned our backs on that. 
There are a lot of things that make 
America a shining city on a hill, but 
there is one thing that no one can dispute 
that does put America as a shining 
city on a hill and that is the Americans 
With Disabilities Act and what it 
has done to our society, like our Civil 
Rights Act, what it has done to break 
down the barriers and to show that 
people with disabilities can contribute 
to society if only given the chance and 
the opportunity. 

You would think we would want to 
then say, yes, we will be a part of a 
worldwide effort to break down those 
barriers against people with disabilities. 
We want to be part of a worldwide 
effort to say it is not all right, it 
is not OK to leave a baby on the side of 
the road to die simply because that 
baby has Down Syndrome. You would 
think we would want to be part of a 
global effort that says it is not all 
right to keep kids out of school and 
away from education because they 
have a physical disability—they use a 
wheelchair—or have an intellectual 
disability. You would think we would 
want to be part of an effort such as 
that, that says it is not OK to put people 
in cells, chained in cells, people 
whose only crime is that they are disabled. 
You would think we would want 
to be part of that effort. 

We have done that in this country. 
We have done wonderful things. Yet 
there is some fear, some unfounded fear 
that the United Nations is going to 
come in with a black helicopter or 
something, I don’t know what, and say 
you cannot homeschool your kids. 

The Americans With Disabilities Act, 
we had it for 20 years. Did it stop home 
schooling? Of course not. Did it lead to 
more abortions? Of course not. 

After this vote, after it was defeated, 
I walked out into the reception room, 
the Senate reception room. There was 
a throng, a number of people in the disability 
community. They were crushed, 
just crushed. They could not understand 
this. How could it be? Every disability 
community in America, every 
disability organization supported this. 
We had 21 veterans organizations, everything 
from the American Legion to 
the VFW, AMVETS, Disabled American 
Veterans, Disabled Veterans of America—
21. Every veterans group supported 
this. 

I ask, were these veterans groups so 
dumb, so blind, so misled to support 

something that is going to give the 

U.N. the right to come in and take kids 
out of your home? That is what people 
were saying. They do not get it, veterans 
groups? Is that what they were 
saying, that they do not understand 
this? 
Of course they understood it. They 
know those were unfounded fears. Walk 
out and see Yoshiko Dart out there, 
holding Justin Dart’s hat; Justin Dart, 
God love him. A man in a wheelchair, 
used it almost every day in his life; a 
man who traveled throughout this 
country day after day to get people organized 
to support the Americans With 
Disabilities Act, Justin Dart. He has 
since passed on, but his widow carries 
his hat around. She had his hat there 
and they were just crushed by this 
vote. How could we turn our backs on 
something so important to our country 
and the world? Pat Wright—others. 

Before we had the vote we had a wonderful 
ceremony honoring Bob Dole. 
Yesterday was the International Disability 
Rights Day, so they wanted to 
honor Bob Dole for all he had done, 
Senator Dole. It was a wonderful event. 
I saw people over there honoring Bob 
Dole for all the work he had done on 
disability rights who voted against the 
bill today. 

Mr. LEAHY. That is right. 

Mr. HARKIN. I said, wait a minute, 
they are there to honor all the work 
Bob Dole had done on disability and 
Bob Dole was one of the strongest supporters 
of the CRPD, as it is called. He 
came over here today in his wheelchair 
with his wife, former Senator Elizabeth 
Dole. Yet people voted against it. I do 
not get it. 

Veterans? There was a young veteran 
sitting in the gallery today. I met him 
yesterday for the first time. Senator 
KERRY spoke at length about him. His 
name is Dan Berschinski. I ask unanimous 
consent to have his op-ed printed 
in the RECORD at the conclusion of my 
speech. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(See exhibit 1.) 

Mr. HARKIN. I met him yesterday, a 
young man 25 years old. He said for the 
first 25 years of my life I was an able-
bodied American and played football 
and soccer, even ran a few marathons. 

He graduated from West Point and 
went to Afghanistan and had both of 
his legs blown off. He walks on prosthetic 
legs now and talks about going 
to South Africa on a trip and the fear 
gripped him because of the fact he 
couldn’t get around. In the hotel they 
had curbs. He had the kind of problems 
he doesn’t have here. 

I saw him out here in the reception 
room after the vote. He had been sitting 
in the gallery. He came down. I 
went up to him and I said: Dan, what 
can I say? I am sorry. I am sorry. But, 
I said, we will come back again. We are 
going to come back at this thing. But, 
I said, I am sorry. 

You know what he said to me? He 
said: You know, Senator, watching this 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7395 

and seeing this makes me want to get 
just about as far away from politics as 
I can. 

Is that the message we send to young 
veterans, young heroes like this? 

I don’t want to take any more time. 
Others want to speak. As I said, it is a 
shameful day. I do say we will be back. 
Senator KERRY will be back, Senator 
MCCAIN. Again, I give them the highest 
plaudits for what they did. Senator 
MCCAIN and Senator KERRY did a magnificent 
job, and Senator LUGAR, in 
carrying this bill forward. I know they 
do not want to give up either. I was 
hoping we would pass it before Senator 
LUGAR leaves the Senate. It would have 
been wonderful that Senator LUGAR did 
this during his time here in the Senate. 
But I guess that is not to be. 

We will be back in January or February. 
Senator KERRY is committed to 
doing that, bringing it back to the 
committee, so we will be back again. I 
hope over the Christmas break and 
New Year’s those who did not vote to 
support this will search their conscience, 
search their soul, think more 
about our being involved in this and 
having a seat at the table, helping the 
rest of the world change their laws. I 
hope when we come back we will have 
some reconsiderations and people recognize 
that maybe the first vote was 
not the right vote and change their 
vote and maybe we can get it passed 
then. That is my hope. I hope we can 
get to that when we come back after 
the first of the year. 

EXHIBIT 1 
[Dec. 4, 2012] 
LEADING ON DISABILITY BEYOND OUR BORDERS 
(By Dan Berschinski) 

For the first 25 years of my life I was as an 
able-bodied American. I played football and 
soccer and even ran a few marathons. All of 
that changed three years ago. Having graduated 
from West Point, I was serving my 
country as an Army infantry officer in Afghanistan 
when I was seriously wounded: I 
stepped on the unseen trigger of an improvised 
explosive device, and both my legs 
were instantly torn from my body. From 
that moment on, my life has, been drastically 
different. 

Today, after three year’s of hard effort, I’m 
proud, to be able to walk using prosthetic 
legs. Yet obstacles that might seem inconsequential 
to the fully able-bodied, like sidewalk 
curbs and stairs, take on a whole new 
meaning for people like me who struggle to 
walk, or who use a wheelchair. Fortunately, 
the United States leads the world in accessibility 
and equality of opportunity for the 
disabled. Unfortunately, the advantages we 
take for granted here at home—the policies 
that allow people like me to live fulfilling, 
independent lives—don’t exist in much of the 
rest of the world. 

Eight months after being wounded in combat, 
and while still a patient at Walter Reed 
Army Medical Center, I joined a few friends 
in a trip to South Africa to watch the World 
Cup. There I found myself in a different 
country, with no legs, a brand-new wheelchair 
and a lot of apprehension. While I 
should have been enjoying this once-in-a-
lifetime trip, I was constantly worried about 
my ability to get around. South Africa had 
done a fairly good job on accessibility, but 
there were still plenty of curbs that had to 
be jumped, ditches that had to be crossed, 

and flights of stairs that had to be, well, hobbled 
up. As a disabled Anierican at home, I 
can depend on accessible accommodations; 
as a disabled tourist abroad, I had to hope 
for the best while preparing for the worst. 

Today, the United States has an opportunity 
to show leadership and reduce the 
challenges that millions of disabled people 
around the world face every day: The Senate 
can vote to join the U.N. treaty on rights for 
people with disabilities. By encouraging 
other nations to strengthen their own accessibility 
laws, we can improve the lives of our 

56.7 million disabled U.S. citizens, including 
5.5 million disabled veterans like me, when 
we travel and work abroad. Many of those 
opposing this treaty claim to support military 
veterans, but a vote against ratifying 
this treaty undercuts that support. 
I am honored to join fellow veterans, Republicans 
and Democrats, including Sens. 
John Kerry and John McCain and former 
Sen. Robert J. Dole, to say that the case is 
clear-cut: Only by voting in favor of the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
can the Senate truly honor the sacrifice 
of those disabled while answering this 
nation’s call. I am proud to have served my 
country; I am proud of how my country has 
taken care of me. And I will be proud when 
we extend our leadership on disability issues 
beyond our borders. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Vermont. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, while the 
Senator from Iowa is on the floor—and 
I will be very brief because there are 
others waiting to speak—I am so 
moved and touched by what he had to 
say. I had the privilege of being in that 
room with the Senator from Iowa, Senator 
HARKIN, and Senator Dole—both 
Senators Dole, Senator Bob Dole and 
Senator Elizabeth Dole. 

The Senator referred to Justin Dart’s 
widow and his hat was there. My colleague 
and I saw him wearing that hat 
the day the disability legislation was 
signed into law on the White House 
lawn. In fact I have a photograph I 
took of the Senator standing there. 

PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES TREATY 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I have 
had the privilege of serving in this 
body every day that TOM HARKIN has 
been here. Nobody has spoken more 
eloquently for the needs of the disabled 
than Senator HARKIN. He learned sign 
language so he could communicate 
with his brother. I have seen him with 
members of the disabled community. 
He is loved and respected. 

This was not the Senate’s finest day. 
It was not ‘‘Profiles in Courage’’ to see 
what happened. I am glad the Senator 
mentioned the veterans, as though any 
of them would stand for something 
that would take over our country. 
Many of them lost limbs fighting for 
this country and fighting for the security 
of this country. They represent 
people who died fighting for this country. 


So this is one Senator who will be 
here next year. I pledge to the Senator 
from Iowa and to Senator KERRY, my 
seatmate—actually, I have both Senators 
on either side of me—that I will 
be here, and I will support the Senators 
every step of the way. 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I thank 
my good friend and former chairman 

with whom I have served all of these 
years in the Senate for his very kind 
remarks and kind words. More than 
that, I thank my friend for his many 
kindnesses that he has shown me and 
for upholding the finest traditions of 
the Senate. 

I say to PAT LEAHY, through the 
Chair, when we think about a Senator 
and what a Senator should do and how 
a Senator should conduct himself or 
herself, we have to think about PAT 
LEAHY. He has just been a stalwart. He 
is always willing to work with people, 
always willing to give someone the 
benefit of the doubt, always willing to 
help move legislation through the Senate. 
That is the way the Senate used to 
be. It used to be that way. Thank God, 
we still have people here like PAT 
LEAHY. 

I yield the floor and suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. 
MCCASKILL). The Senator from Rhode 
Island. 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

MIDDLE-CLASS TAX CUTS 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
tens of millions of middle-class 
families face the distinct possibility of 
higher tax rates in January. With so 
many Americans who are still struggling 
to find their economic footing 
after the deepest recession of our lifetimes, 
these looming tax hikes would 
be hard for those middle-class families, 
and they are completely unnecessary. 

Newspaper stories day after day on 
the so-called fiscal cliff often omit that 
the Senate has passed legislation to 
shield 98 percent of families and 97 percent 
of small businesses from the income 
tax part of this so-called fiscal 
cliff. 

We passed the Middle Class Tax Cuts 
Act on July 25 of this year. We sent the 
measure to the House of Representatives. 
Did Speaker BOEHNER and the 
Republicans in the House promptly 
pass this popular bill and send it to 
President Obama for his signature? Did 
they move to protect 98 percent of mid-
dle-class families from this tax hike in 
January? No. They decided to hold the 
middle-class tax cuts passed by the 
Senate hostage in an attempt to push 
for tax cuts for the folks they care 
about the most, the top 2 percent of 
the highest earning households. 

Republicans fighting for millionaires 
and billionaires is not a new story. In 
2001 President George W. Bush decided 
to spend a large portion of the surpluses 
he inherited from President 
Clinton to cut tax rates. Many Democrats 
opposed him then because the tax 
cuts were unfair by favoring the highest 
income Americans. To overcome 
that obstacle, the Republicans resorted 


S7396 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

to a parliamentary technique of budget 
reconciliation, a maneuver that allowed 
for passage of their tax cuts but 
forced them to expire after 2010, at the 
end of the 10-year budget window. 

So we scroll forward to 2010. As 2010 
ended, President Obama and many 
Democrats in Congress, including myself, 
wanted to extend the tax cuts for 
middle-class families but let rates on 
income above $200,000 for an individual 
and $250,000 for a family revert to the 
Clinton-era levels. Our Senate Republican 
friends filibustered that effort, 
refusing to allow the middle-class tax 
cut without a tax cut for the highest 
incomes as well. Their hostage strategy 
worked that time, and the President 
and Senate Democrats reluctantly 
agreed to extend the tax cuts for 2 
more years. 

Now the 2 years is up and these tax 
rates are again set to expire. That is 
why Senate Democrats passed the Middle 
Class Tax Cut Act in July. This 
measure balanced our desire to keep 
tax rates low for middle-class families 
against the urgency of addressing our 
national budget deficits. By keeping 
tax rates low for 98 percent of Americans 
and letting the tax rates go up 
very modestly for families earning over 
$250,000 a year, the Democrat plan 
would cut the deficit by as much as $1 
trillion over the next decade. Now, that 
alone doesn’t cure our budget imbalance, 
but along with fair and sensible 
tax reforms and smart cuts in spending, 
it is part of the solution. 

Let’s be clear about one thing: the 
Middle Class Tax Cut Act would still 
benefit high-end taxpayers. Families 
making over $250,000 a year would pay 
lower tax rates on their first $250,000. 
So if a family made $255,000, they 
would only see an increase on the top 
$5,000, and only to the Clinton-era rates 
that were in effect during the 1990s, 
when, as we all recall, our economy 
was thriving. Under the Senate-passed 
plan, a family earning $255,000 a year 
would pay an extra $150 in taxes. 

In opposing the Middle Class Tax Cut 
Act, Republicans claim that it would 
hurt the economy to raise tax rates on 
the top 2 percent of income earners. 
Speaker BOEHNER reiterated that line 
last week saying: It’ll hurt small businesses. 
It’ll hurt the economy. 

Well, that is vintage Republican political 
theory, but it is just not supported 
by the facts. In a recent report, 
the nonpartisan Congressional Budget 
Office estimated that extending the 
middle-class tax cuts would boost our 
national GDP, gross domestic product, 
by 1.25 percent next year. It said the 
economic effects of extending only the 
middle-class rates are similar to those 
of extending all of the rates. Why? Because 
upper income taxpayers are less 
likely to spend their tax savings and 
put it back into the economy. 

In other words, CBO reports we would 
get virtually no economic bang for our 
Federal buck by extending the upper 
income tax cuts for which the Republicans 
are fighting. CBO’s analysis is 

confirmed by the experience of real-
world businesspeople. 

Madam President, I ask unanimous 
consent to enter into the RECORD at 
the conclusion of my remarks an op-ed 
by former Stride Rite CEO Arnold 
Hiatt entitled ‘‘Smite the myth that 
tax cuts create jobs.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

(See exhibit 1.) 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, 
Arnold Hiatt founded a successful 
small business before selling it to 
Stride Rite and then becoming CEO. He 
says: 

As every good businessman knows . . . the 
soundness of a company and its ability to 
create jobs do not rest on lower taxes or tax 
avoidance—for the company or its senior 
management. 

He continues: 

It is a fiction, pure and simple, that taxing 
so-called ‘‘job creators’’ will have an adverse 
effect on the economy. 

Mr. Hiatt goes on to explain: 

In the years we were creating so many 
jobs, my federal income taxes on the top 
slice of my income were sometimes as high 
as 70 percent, but these rates never discouraged 
me or anyone else from hiring workers 
or growing a company. Today we’re paying 
about half of that on the top portion of salaries 
and fees, and a meager 15 percent on the 
big chunk of our income that comes from investments. 
That’s why I . . . and many other 
millionaires pay a lower income-tax rate 
than many working American families. 

He continues: 

Many millionaires never create any jobs at 
all. Those who do will create them regardless 
of the tax rate, and certainly won’t be dissuaded 
by the small increase of about 5 percentage 
points that the president has proposed. 


He concludes this way: 

The myth of millionaires as job creators 
being turned off by higher taxes is the creation 
of some members of the U.S. House and 

U.S. Senate who are funded by these same 
millionaires. They know little of what 
makes companies successful. 
That is the CEO of Stride Rite shoes. 

If we extend the upper income tax 
cuts for another year, it would add 
over $49 billion to the deficit. Even in 
Washington, $49 billion is real money, 
money that would have to be borrowed 
and would add to our debt problem. Believe 
it or not, Republicans who voted 
to turn Medicare into a voucher program 
in the name of deficit reduction 
support adding to the deficit with high-
end tax cuts. In Rhode Island, at least, 
those are lousy priorities when it 
comes to deficit reduction. We should 
let the tax cuts at the top expire for 
reasons also of fairness. Loopholes and 
special provisions allow many super-
high income earners to pay lower tax 
rates than many middle-class families. 

According to the nonpartisan Congressional 
Research Service, 65 percent 
of individuals earning $1 million or 
more annually pay taxes at a lower 
rate than median income taxpayers 
making $100,000 or less. Sixty-five percent—
nearly two-thirds—of individuals 
earning over $1 million a year actually 

pay a lower tax rate than median income 
taxpayers. That is a tax system 
that is turned upside down and needs to 
be fixed. 

Earlier this year a majority of Senators 
voted to advance my Paying a 
Fair Share Act, the Buffett rule bill to 
ensure that multimillion-dollar earners 
pay at least a 30-percent effective 
Federal tax rate. The rate they are 
supposed to pay is 35 percent under the 
income tax laws. But because of all 
these loopholes and special rates, IRS 
statistics show the top 400 taxpayers in 
2008 who earned, by the way, an average 
of $270 million each that year, paid 
the same 18.2 percent effective tax rate 
as paid by, for instance, a truckdriver 
in Rhode Island. The single biggest factor 
driving this inequality is the special 
low rate for capital gains that allows, 
for instance, hedge fund billionaires, 
through the carried interest 
loophole, to pay taxes at lower rates 
than their secretaries and chauffeurs. 
If we let the tax cuts at the top expire, 
those rates revert to 20 percent instead 
of 15 percent. Twenty percent is still a 
low rate for someone making $100 million 
a year, but it is closer to what a 
middle-class family is expected to pay. 

In short, allowing the Bush-era tax 
cuts to expire for income above $250,000 
is the fiscally responsible thing to do 
and the fair and proper thing to do. 
Why, then, hasn’t Speaker BOEHNER 
called a vote on the Senate-passed Middle 
Class Tax Cuts Act? Because 
threatening middle-class families with 
higher taxes is their strategy, to push 
for breaks for millionaires and billionaires—
the hostage strategy—with the 
middle class as the hostages as Republicans 
fight for whom they truly care 
about. 

If Speaker BOEHNER continues to ignore 
the Senate-passed bill, I urge 
President Obama to stand firm on his 
opposition to extending the upper income 
tax cuts. The American people 
support that approach, and we should 
not cave in to pressure. 

I would also urge the President and 
congressional leaders to work to include 
the Buffett rule principles in any 
deficit deal. Letting the upper income 
tax cuts expire and ensuring multimillion-
dollar earners pay a fair share 
will assure the American people we are 
working for them and not the special 
interests as we allocate the burden of 
addressing our deficits. 

EXHIBIT 1 

[From the Providence Journal] 

SMITE THE MYTH THAT TAX CUTS CREATE 

JOBS 

PROVIDENCE JOURNAL EDITION 

(by Arnold Hiatt) 

As every good businessman knows—including 
former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, 
with whom I had been associated as a 
limited partner at Bain Capital Ventures— 
the soundness of a company and its ability 
to create jobs do not rest on lower taxes or 
tax avoidance—for the company or its senior 
management. 

If the now defeated presidential candidate 
Romney and congressional Republicans continue 
to insist on renewing the special Bush 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7397 

tax cuts that go only to the wealthiest 2 percent 
of Americans like me, it will do nothing 
to create jobs. It is a fiction, pure and simple, 
that taxing so-called ‘‘job creators’’ will 
have an adverse effect on the economy. 

Just the reverse is true. Instead of spending 
nearly $1 trillion on tax cuts to make 
millionaires even richer, those tax dollars 
can be used more constructively to retain 
teachers, police officers and firefighters, and 
repair roads and bridges. These are all essential 
services that will rebuild our economy 
and maintain a civil society. In addition, 
these tax dollars will contribute to deficit 
reduction. 

The son of a Lithuanian immigrant to this 
land of now diminishing equal opportunity, I 
had the good fortune to start a small company 
that enjoyed a measure of success and 
that was eventually acquired by Stride Rite 
Corp. Twelve months later I was asked to become 
president of Stride Rite. 

Throughout the last 10 years of my tenure, 
the company’s return on investment was in 
the top 1 percent of all companies listed on 
the New York Stock Exchange. We created 
thousands of new jobs. By the time I left, we 
had over 5,000 employees. Our success rested 
on the quality of the product and service 
provided to consumers. It was a reflection on 
the quality of the workforce as well as the 
management. My success could not have 
been possible without the people whom we 
continued to hire and to train as we grew. I 
depended on them as much as they depended 
upon me. 

In the years we were creating so many 
jobs, my federal income taxes on the top 
slice of my income were sometimes as high 
as 70 percent, but these rates never discouraged 
me or anyone else from hiring workers 
or growing a company. Today we’re paying 
about half that on the top portion of salaries 
and fees, and a meager 15 percent on the big 
chunk of our income that comes from investments. 
That’s why Governor Romney and I 
and many other millionaires pay a lower income-
tax rate than many working American 
families. 

Many millionaires never create any jobs at 
all. Those who do will create them regardless 
of the tax rate and certainly won’t be dissuaded 
by the small increase of about 5 percentage 
points that the president has proposed. 


The myth of millionaires as job creators 
being turned off by higher taxes is the creation 
of some members of the U.S. House and 

U.S. Senate who are funded by these same 
millionaires. They know little of what 
makes companies successful. 
Romney knows better. It is a matter of 
record that during the time tax rates, both 
corporate and personal, were so much higher, 
our economy was booming. Conversely, the 
slowest job growth since World War II took 
place between the Bush tax cuts for millionaires 
and the 2008 economic meltdown. 

A few months ago, every Republican in the 
House and Senate, along with 19 House 
Democrats and two Senate Democrats, voted 
against a bill ending the Bush tax breaks for 
the richest 2 percent, but extend them for 98 
percent of Americans and 97 percent of small 
businesses. I hope they will take a fresh look 
at the facts. That’s why I joined with over 
100 other millionaires in signing a Voices for 
Progress letter to all members of Congress, 
appealing to them not to renew these tax 
breaks. Allowing the richest 2 percent to 
withhold tax dollars robs children of health 
and education. It is not only immoral, it is 
bad economics. They are the future of our 
country, which has begun to fall behind our 
competitors. It is also destroying the American 
Dream, which brought my father to this 
country alone at the age of 15. 

Both he and the Founding Fathers would 
agree that the future of this nation should 

not be compromised by the shortsightedness 
of those so well off in the present. These are 
not the values that made this country great. 

Arnold Hiatt is a former chief executive of 
Stride Rite Corp., based in Lexington, Mass. 
This article previously appeared in The Boston 
Globe. 

I thank the Chair. I yield the floor, 
and I note the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
I ask unanimous consent that the 
Senate proceed to a period of morning 
business, with Senators permitted to 
speak therein for up to 10 minutes 
each. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO MAYOR BILL PAXTON 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I rise today to pay tribute to my good 
friend the mayor of Paducah, KY, Mr. 
Bill Paxton. Mayor Paxton has been a 
vital partner of mine in our efforts to 
bring economic development to the Paducah 
region, improve the quality of 
life for its residents, and represent 
their interests in public service. Paducah 
could not ask for a finer mayor 
than Bill Paxton. 

Now it’s my sad duty to report to my 
colleagues that after 12 years in office, 
Mayor Paxton is retiring. And although 
Kentuckians will miss his 
steady hand at the helm of leadership, 
no one can say Bill Paxton has not 
given more than his share of dedication 
and commitment to the people of his 
city. And we all certainly wish him the 
very best as he leaves the mayor’s office 
and moves on to his next endeavors, 
where I am sure he will find much 
success just as he has in public service. 

It would take too long for me to describe 
everything we’ve worked on together 
over the years, but I’ll mention 
a few. For several years we worked together 
to bring economic growth to 
downtown Paducah with a new riverfront 
marina development. After a long 
road marked by the occasional setback, 
the Paducah Riverfront and Marina 
groundbreaking ceremony took place 
last month. The new riverfront will 
spur job creation and serve as a public 
space for all of Paducah’s residents to 
enjoy. 

For years, Mayor Paxton has been indispensable 
on a host of issues affecting 
the Paducah gaseous diffusion 
plant and its hard-working employees. 

Bill has also been crucial in efforts to 
create the Paducah River Discovery 
Center, improve the Paducah Area 
Transit System, and upgrade local law-

enforcement and safety resources such 
as the Public Safety Mobile Data System, 
which allows police and other 
emergency personnel to share and coordinate 
information. 

And I can’t forget Bill’s leading role 
in designating the National Quilt Museum, 
located two blocks from the Ohio 
River in downtown Paducah, as the National 
Quilt Museum of the United 
States. As one of the most popular 
tourist attractions in the Bluegrass 
State, it regularly brings over 100,000 
visitors yearly from all 50 States and 40 
countries. 

One of Bill’s biggest successes over 
the last 12 years is the Lower Town revitalization 
project. Lower Town, a Paducah 
neighborhood that is rich with 
history but had become dilapidated 
with neglect, became the focus of renewal 
for city government under the 
mayor’s vision. 

Revitalization efforts focused on creating 
an awareness of Lower Town as a 
cultural center for the arts and an accessible 
retail environment friendly to 
local businesses. Now, a decade later, 
this project has been successful, yielding 
much renovation of local historic 
buildings and new construction, luring 
more than 75 new artists and businesses 
to Lower Town, and bringing 
over $30 million in private investment 
in the area. 

Bill was born and raised in Paducah. 
Prior to serving three terms as mayor, 
he was elected to Paducah’s city commission 
in 1998. It was a family tradition, 
as his father, William F. Paxton 
Jr., had also served on the city commission. 
As a private citizen, Bill 
worked for 30 years in the banking industry. 
Bill is also one of the few mayors 
in Kentucky to serve two terms as 
head of the League of Cities, proving 
his talents are appreciated not just in 
Paducah but across Kentucky. 

I have been pleased to get to know 
both Bill and his wife, Lucy, over the 
years and am proud to call them close 
friends. I am sure that Lucy; their two 
children, Christina Paxton Cassetty 
and William F. Paxton IV; and many 
other beloved friends and family members 
join me and Elaine in saying we 
are proud of Bill Paxton’s record of accomplishment 
as mayor, and we wish 
him the best in his well-earned retirement. 
He is one of Kentucky’s most 
distinguished citizens and public servants. 


f 

TRIBUTE TO DR. RUSSELL 
DOHNER 

Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I 
want to recognize ‘‘a wonderful life.’’ 
Much like the movie starring Jimmy 
Stewart, it is the story of a small town 
boy who dreamed of big adventures in a 
big city, but who discovered his life’s 
calling not far from home. 

For nearly 60 years, Dr. Russell 
Dohner has dedicated his life to providing 
affordable healthcare to residents 
of Rushville—a rural community 
in western Illinois. 


S7398 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

Dr. Dohner grew up on a farm, not far 
from Rushville, one of seven children. 
He experienced seizures as a small boy, 
and it was his family doctor who 
stayed by his side and inspired him to 
enter the medical field. After high 
school, Dr. Dohner served in the Army 
during World War II, attended Western 
Illinois University, and then worked 
his way through Northwestern University 
Medical School. 

Although he hoped to move to a big 
city and work as a cardiologist, he 
knew Rushville, a city of just 3,200 people, 
needed a doctor. In 1955 he opened 
an office there hoping to stay just a 
few years. That was 57 years ago. 
Today, little has changed in his Rush-
ville office—the nurses, the furniture, 
and the price of a visit. He charges patients 
just $5 a visit. 

He does not take health insurance, 
but at only $5 most of his patients can 
afford the visit. Even if someone cannot 
pay, he still helps them. 

Dr. Dohner barely makes enough 
money to pay his nurses, and he relies 
on income from his family’s farm to 
make ends meet. However, one thing 
that helps keep the office overhead low 
is the lack of technology. There is no 
computer, no fax machine, and no answering 
machines. Five decades of 
records are kept on handwritten, 4-by-
6 index cards. 

Dr. Dohner keeps his office open 7 
days a week. On Sundays he stops in 
before going to church. He starts his 
day making rounds at Culbertson Memorial 
Hospital in Rushville, he then 
takes patients at his office, and he ends 
the day with another round at the hospital. 
He may see as many as 120 patients 
a day. He works with patients on 
a first-come, first-serve basis. But, if it 
is an emergency Dr. Dohner lets them 
use the back door. And if patients are 
too sick to make the trip in, he will 
make a house call. 

Although he has no children of his 
own, he has delivered more than 3,500 
babies. This happens to be more people 
than the population of Rushville. 

Dr. Dohner puts patients before himself. 
He has never been on a vacation 
and cannot remember ever taking a 
day off. The only time he has closed 
down his office was when he suffered a 
heart attack and he himself needed 
medical care. Dr. Dohner has said, ‘‘I 
have to take care of my patients first.’’ 

At age 87 and after nearly 60 years on 
the job, Dr. Dohner continues to provide 
the rural area with selfless service, 
hard work, and affordable 
healthcare. He does not seem to be 
slowing down much, and for that, the 
community is grateful. 

Dr. Russell Dohner is as a wonderful 
example of how one person’s life can 
have a big impact on a small town. 

f 

VOTE EXPLANATION 
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, 
because of an important meeting with 
business and government leaders in Oregon 
on Monday morning, I was forced 

to miss votes on Paul William Grimm’s 
nomination as U.S. district judge, and 
for the motion to invoke cloture on S. 
3254, the National Defense Authorization 
Act. I wish to record for the 
RECORD that had I been present, I 
would have voted ‘‘aye’’ on each vote. 

f 

RECOGNIZING WILDLIFE 
CONSERVATION DAY 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
as cochairs of the International 
Conservation Caucus, Senator TOM 
UDALL and I stand together on Wildlife 
Conservation Day, December 4th, to 
emphasize the need for governments, 
organizations, and individuals to protect 
the world’s endangered species, 
which face threats from poaching, illicit 
trade, pollution, and improper 
land use. 

The International Conservation Caucus 
has focused attention this Congress 
on poaching and the illegal wildlife 
trade, a lucrative and illicit global 
market worth anywhere from $5 to $20 
billion annually. This trade threatens 
biodiversity, stability, and the rule of 
law. 

New initiatives proposed by the U.S. 
State Department are needed to protect 
wildlife, combat trafficking, and 
reduce demand. We applaud the State 
Department’s commitment to 
strengthening a global system of wildlife 
enforcement and the work of the 

U.S. Agency for International Development 
to strengthen regional 
antitrafficking networks. 
In addition, we and our allies should 
investigate and prosecute wildlife 
crime more aggressively, but we should 
not see the seizure of ivory, rhino 
horns, and other wildlife products as 
the sole measure of success. We must 
also reduce demand, take down trafficking 
kingpins through international 
law enforcement efforts, and protect 
wildlife populations to prevent environmental 
devastation. Advanced technologies 
and modern forensics can aid 
these efforts. 

On the diplomatic front, our Ambassadors 
must increase the pressure on 
countries to ensure members of their 
militaries and law enforcement agencies 
do not look the other way or participate 
in trafficking of wildlife and 
that enforcement is rigorous. Public 
education programs both abroad and 
here in the United States must be expanded 
to reduce demand for trafficked 
wildlife and products. 

We look forward to continuing to 
promote policies that protect natural 
resources and wildlife. Wildlife conservation 
is vital to maintaining biodiversity, 
global stability, and economic 
vitality across the world. 

f 

REMEMBERING JONATHAN MICKLE 
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, 
today I wish to honor the military 
service of Jonathan Mickle. Jonathan 
died on October 30 in Rye, NH. He is remembered 
as a dedicated servicemem


ber who served in the U.S. Army and 
deployed to Iraq in support of Operation 
Iraqi Freedom from January 2006 
to February 2007. 

Jonathan was born August 19, 1985 in 
Portsmouth, NH. He graduated from 
Portsmouth High School in 2003 and 
went on to attend Southern New Hampshire 
University where he received high 
academic honors and made the dean’s 
list. 

Jonathan joined the U.S. Army after 
graduating college. He became a Fire 
Direction Specialist with Charlie Battery, 
2nd Battalion, 3rd Field Artillery 
Regiment. For his service during the 
war in Iraq, he was awarded numerous 
medals, including the Army Commendation 
Medal, the Army Achievement 
Medal and the Army Good Conduct 
Medal. 

Jonathan took pride in his service to 
his country. After returning from Iraq, 
he became a member of the Emerson 
Hovey Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 
#168, supporting and being supported 
by fellow veterans and continuing to 
stay involved in the Army. He was also 
a dedicated New England Sports fan. 

There are no words to adequately 
thank this brave New Hampshire son 
for his commitment to our country. I 
hope that, during this hard time, Jonathan’s 
friends and family can find comfort 
knowing that Americans everywhere 
share a deep and profound appreciation 
for their Jonathan’s willingness 
to answer the call to defend America 
and our way of life. 

Sadly, Jonathan’s mother, Katie 
Mickle, passed away suddenly in 2000 
from pancreatic cancer at the age of 39. 
Jonathan is survived by his father Warren 
of Portsmouth, his brothers, Robert 
and Matthew and his wife, Kristy, 
of Kittery, ME; his sister Whitney 
Mickle and her fiance´ Michael Foley of 
Eliot; and niece Marlee Jane Mickle. 

I ask my colleagues and all Americans 
to join me in honoring the life and 
service of this dedicated servicemember 
and brave young American, Jonathan 
Mickle. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO FLIGHT 93 
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I would 
like to include the remarks made by 
Mr. Gordon Felt, former President of 
the Families of Flight 93, for the 
RECORD in honor of the Congressional 
tribute held earlier this morning. I 
want to extend my gratitude to Mr. 
Felt and the Families of Flight 93 for 
their tireless commitment to honoring 
the heroic sacrifice of their loved ones. 
There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
Good morning. Mrs. Toomey, Mrs. Casey, 
the entire host committee and members of 
the House and Senate joining us today, to 
our partners at the National Park Service 
and National Park Foundation and to those 
family members in attendance, I stand before 
you with an overwhelming sense of pride 
knowing that this building, this symbol of 
our nation’s great democracy, perhaps would 
have been destroyed were it not for the selfless 
actions of 40 brave men and women 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7399 

aboard United Flight 93. For without their 
courageous stand taken on September 11, 
2001, our Capitol building and many of those 
serving within, perhaps some of you, may 
have been further victims of the terrorism 
that fundamentally changed our lives and 
our country on that dark day. With each 
visit to the Capitol I make time to pass 
through the Rotunda and view the magnificent 
plaque dedicated to the actions of the 
passengers and crew of United Flight 93. 
While the traumatic repercussions of September 
11, 2001 have been deeply felt by each 
and every family member that lost a loved 
one that day, and by the community of Somerset 
County whose lives and way of life have 
been forever changed, I appreciate the conscious 
awareness of those serving in this 
building of the fact, that as tragic as that 
day was to our country, it could have been 
significantly worse. 

As family members that lost loved ones 
aboard United Flight 93, we struggle continually 
with our loss. Our lives over the past 
eleven years have all taken differing paths 
with one common factor that will forever 
bind us together. Our family of Flight 93, 
forged in tragedy and thrust into the public 
domain has provided an avenue by which we 
can advocate for those family members that 
will forever remain alive in our hearts and 
minds. This journey has not been easy for 
any and more difficult for some. 

For some families and individuals, withdrawal 
into their personal lives at home, or 
fresh new starts beyond the reach of the 
media and chaos of September 11th have 
been an avenue of survival. Others have 
joined in community with family members 
suffering similar loss and have found comfort 
with the understanding that comes from 
shared tragedy. And there are others that 
have continued to move forward masking 
their grief as they approach life one day at a 
time . . . surviving. Within our families 
there are others that have made a conscious 
decision to serve as advocates, representing 
the interests of the Families of Flight 93 
through the Flight 93 National Memorial 
Partnership. No avenue of healing is proper 
and correct for all, just as no closure will 
ever be felt for those experiencing such great 
loss. 

Our families are spread out across the 
globe and represent a unique diversity in culture. 
Yet, when we gather together each year 
on the anniversary of September 11th, we are 
one. Somerset County, Pennsylvania has become 
an extension of our homes and the 
community has welcomed us into their 
hearts unconditionally even as they struggle 
daily with the impact of events set in motion 
on September 11, 2001. Their lives have been 
impacted in ways that they are still coming 
to understand. Yet there is a strength and 
wholesomeness in the people of Somerset 
County that provides great comfort to our 
families. They proudly stand as Ambassadors 
working hand in hand with the National 
Park Service ready to tell the story of our 
loved ones to any and all that visit the memorial. 


The Flight 93 National Memorial is more 
than a tribute to 40 heroes. Its existence 
serves our country in a far greater capacity 
than just as a place marker for history. Over 
these past 11 years we have come to realize 
that the Flight 93 National Memorial has a 
quality within similar to that of Gettysburg 
or Pearl Harbor. A strong sense of purpose, 
of loss, yet triumph permeates the entire 
site and only becomes more intense as visitors 
approach and gaze upon our Sacred 
Ground. The memorial was designed to honor 
40 heroes, but also serves in the short term 
to help heal a generation of Americans deeply 
affected by the traumatic effects of September 
11th and stands to preserve a piece of 

our cultural heritage in order to educate and 
inspire future generations. 

‘‘Do what is right, not what is easy.’’ Since 
September 11th this mantra has guided so 
many within our Flight 93 National Memorial 
partnership and our extended Flight 93 
National Memorial Family. Whether it is in 
the halls of Congress, Harrisburg, Somerset, 
or Shanksville, Pennsylvania, this project 
has been joined by all that appreciate the 
personal, political, cultural and historical 
impact September 11th has had on our country 
and freedom loving peoples around the 
world. On one of the bleakest days in our history, 
the trial of 40 individuals helped us remember 
that we are strong with an unquenched 
thirst for freedom and that no person 
or ideology will ever cause us to waver 
from a course that was set in motion by our 
forefathers. 

In those defining 22 minutes when our 
loved ones experienced a horror beyond comprehension, 
they collectively chose to act. 
Not as individuals, but as a force ignited by 
the love of family, love of freedom and a superiority 
in spirit unwilling to sit back and 
allow an evil so incarnate to suppress their 
dreams and desires. They were thrust together 
by events not caused by individual 
existences, but by social, political, and religious 
forces that sought to break our spirit 
through terror. How can we not stand in 
awe? How can we not celebrate their spirit? 
How can we not honor those 40 individuals 
that have been woven into the fabric of our 
nation’s proud history? The Flight 93 National 
Memorial will ensure that their efforts, 
their actions and their spirit will not 
be forgotten. 

f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

TRIBUTE TO MAJOR D. LEIGH 
HASSON 

S Mr. BEGICH. Mr. President, I wish to 
recognize my 2012 defense legislative 
fellow, MAJ D. Leigh Hasson. Major 
Hasson served my office with distinction. 
From her first town hall in Fairbanks, 
AK, to her final days spent on 
the floor of the United States Senate 
as the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2013 was being considered, 
she demonstrated honor, integrity, 
leadership and professionalism. 

Major Hasson received her commission 
from the United States Air Force 
Officer Training School in January 
2000. As a navigator with over 1,000 
combat flight hours, she has deployed 
in support of Operations Northern 
Watch, Southern Watch, Enduring 
Freedom and Iraqi Freedom. She has 
experience establishing and supporting 
major commands including the International 
Security Assistance Force 
Joint Command headquarters and 
Joint Forces Command. Major Hasson 
has been selfless in her service and sacrifice 
throughout her career. 

Her family has supported her through 
these deployments and her tenure in 
the Air Force. Her husband David, son 
Samuel and daughter Alexis have been 
by her side through it all. It is for 
them she serves our Nation—to protect 
what they have and to protect their future. 
I would like to thank David, Samuel 
and Alexis for their sacrifices in 
support of Major Hasson. 

Hailing from Trapper Creek, AK, 
Leigh embodies Alaska values. She is 
independent, inquisitive, a self-starter 
and actively involved in her work and 
community. While in my office, Leigh 
completed the Truman National Security 
Project Security Scholars program. 
She was the office’s liaison to 
the Alaska State Society, she taught 
Bible study at her church and somehow 
she still found the time to train and 
run the Army Ten-Miler in support of 
our troops. 

As a defense legislative fellow, she 
contributed greatly to the State of 
Alaska and the Nation. She led the 
charge on Arctic issues because she 
recognized the increasing importance 
of the region. Due to her work, I was 
successful in securing report language 
to accompany the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 
on appropriately resourcing the Arctic. 
She staffed me at numerous hearings 
and provided vital insight on a number 
of pressing national security issues. 

As a member of my team, Leigh approached 
each day with a positive attitude. 
Despite working in an environment 
where one can easily become discouraged 
by politics, Leigh never failed 
to smile and press forward in the best 
interest of the Nation. 

It has been a pleasure to host Major 
Hasson in my office. I wish her the best 
in her future endeavors and thank her 
for her service.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO CHIEF JUDGE 

ROBERT M. BELL 
S Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, 
today I wish to recognize the Honorable 
Robert M. Bell, Chief Judge of the 
Maryland Court of Appeals, for his outstanding 
contributions as a jurist, administrator, 
and justice advocate. His 
work on the bench has transformed the 
Maryland judicial system. His success 
in Maryland has provided leadership 
for national initiatives. And Chief 
Judge Bell has secured his place in history 
as a civil rights leader, both in 
Maryland and nationally. 

Chief Judge Bell has served as the 
Chief Judge of the Maryland Court of 
Appeals and the head of Maryland’s Judiciary 
for the past 15 years. But before 
Chief Judge Bell took the bench, I want 
to bring to the attention of my colleagues 
in the Senate that Chief Judge 
Bell was already involved with our 
State’s judicial system. As a high 
school student, he was a civil rights 
protestor who engaged in civil disobedience 
in Baltimore, and his case ultimately 
reached the U.S. Supreme 
Court. 

The Maryland State Archives has 
used the Bell v. Maryland case as part 
of its series on ‘‘Teaching American 
History in Maryland’’. According to 
the account by the Archives, in 1960, 
the majority of restaurants in downtown 
Baltimore were still segregated 
and blacks were not served at all-white 
dining establishments. Students from 
Dunbar High School and Morgan State 


S7400 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

College were recruited by the Civic Interest 
Group to enter all-white restaurants 
and demand service. On June 
17, 1960, a group of students entered 
Hooper’s Restaurant, located at 
Charles and Fayette Streets, and asked 
to be served. They were told to leave, 
but 12 of the students, including 16-
year-old Robert Mack Bell from Dunbar 
High School, refused. They were 
each charged with trespassing, found 
guilty, and fined $10. The case was appealed, 
and one of the students’ lawyers 
was Thurgood Marshall from the 
National Association for the Advancement 
of Colored People, NAACP, who 
went on to become the first African-
American Justice on the United States 
Supreme Court. The students and their 
attorneys argued that the use of the 
State’s trespassing laws to support segregation 
of public accommodations violated 
the Fourteenth Amendment, 
which guarantees the ‘‘equal protection 
of the laws’’ to all persons. 

In 1962, the Maryland Court of Appeals 
upheld the students’ convictions 
and the decision of the lower court, and 
the case was appealed to the U.S Supreme 
Court. In the summer of 1964, 
the United States Senate finally overcame 
a filibuster and passed the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964, which prohibited 
segregation and discrimination in public 
accommodations. The State of 
Maryland also passed a public accommodations 
law. Shortly after this action 
by Congress, the Supreme Court 
remanded the case back to the Maryland 
Court of Appeals. On April 9, 1965, 
the convictions were reversed, the students 
were cleared of all charges, and 
the City of Baltimore was ordered to 
pay court costs to the students. 

Robert Mack Bell went on to graduate 
from Morgan State in Baltimore 
and then Harvard Law School, and was 
admitted to the Maryland Bar in 1969. 
After working in private practice for 
several years, he was appointed as a 
Baltimore City District Court judge, 
which handles misdemeanors. In 1980, 
he was elevated to the Baltimore City 
Circuit Court, which handles felony 
cases and jury trials. In 1984, he was 
elevated again to the Court of Special 
Appeals, our intermediate appellate 
court. In 1991, Judge Bell was appointed 
to the Maryland Court of Appeals, 
our State’s top court. Finally, he 
was appointed as Chief Judge of the 
Maryland Court of Appeals in 1996, becoming 
the first African-American to 
serve in that capacity. He is one of the 
few judges to serve at all four levels of 
the Maryland judiciary during his career. 
And Chief Judge Bell also has the 
rare distinction of serving on and then 
running a court that had previously 
ruled against him. 

During his 2 decades on the bench, 
Chief Judge Bell has been a moving 
force on committees and commissions 
that have looked at ways to provide 
greater access to justice, to better incorporate 
the advantages of technology, 
and to enhance legal training 
and compensation. 

In 2002, Chief Judge Bell appointed a 
Commission on Racial and Ethnic Fairness 
in the Judicial Process to evaluate 
outcomes and recommend ways to reduce 
or eliminate unequal access to or 
treatment by the court system. In 2008, 
he created the Access to Justice Commission 
to develop, consolidate, coordinate, 
and implement policy initiatives 
to expand access to and enhance the 
quality of justice in civil legal matters. 
He sought ways to find non-traditional 
methods to help solve the problems of 
crime by promoting Alternative Dispute 
Resolution, ADR, programs 
throughout Maryland. He promoted the 
growth of drug treatment courts in 
Maryland and established the Standing 
Committee on Problem-Solving Courts 
to coordinate these efforts. He used 
technology to provide more accurate 
and uniform data critical to the enforcement 
of domestic violence and 
peace orders, and launched an ongoing 
effort to prepare Maryland judges to 
adjudicate cases involving science and 
biotechnology. And when the housing 
crisis hit Maryland, he called Maryland’s 
legal community together to 
provide pro bono assistance to homeowners 
faced with foreclosure. As a result 
of those efforts, the Maryland General 
Assembly passed legislation to 
better protect homeowners. 

Time and time again, when Chief 
Judge Bell has faced challenges, he has 
seized the opportunity to find solutions. 
He has done so with grace and 
intellect and compassion. He has rallied 
the legal community and expanded 
opportunities for those with few options 
and no voice. 

From Robert Bell’s days as a high 
school student, long before he even 
went to law school, he has strived to 
promote justice and equality for all 
Americans. The Preamble to the Constitution 
provides that ‘‘We the People 
of the United States, in Order to form 
a more perfect Union, establish Justice 
do ordain and establish this Constitution 
for the United States of America.’’ 
Just like Thurgood Marshall, a fellow 
Baltimorean and legal giant, Chief 
Judge Bell has played a large part in 
upholding and defending our Constitution 
in Maryland, and in helping our 
State and nation move toward ‘‘establishing 
justice’’ and creating a ‘‘more 
perfect union.’’ I urge my colleagues to 
join me in thanking Chief Judge Robert 
Bell for his civil rights leadership, 
contributions to the legal community, 
and inspirational life as he retires after 
an outstanding career of public service.
S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO LEE SACHS 
S Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, 
today I wish to recognize the contributions 
of Lee Norman Sachs, one of 
America’s outstanding first-responders 
and human beings whose contribution 
of time, talent, and leadership span 
over 31/2 decades. Lee graduated from 
the University of Pennsylvania and the 
University Of Maryland School Of Law, 

and began practicing law in 1967, concentrating 
on family law and real estate 
matters. But his desire to do more 
for his community led him to take 
Emergency Medical Technician, EMT, 
training and join the Pikesville Volunteer 
Fire Department. Over the years, 
Lee took more and more training, first 
to qualify as a paramedic and then as a 
firefighter, fire driver/operator and 
lastly a fire instructor. 

Lee’s dedication, training, and leadership 
skills have resulted in his election 
to many volunteer fire positions, 
most notably as president of the Pikes-
ville Volunteer Fire Department, the 
Baltimore County Volunteer Firemen’s 
Association, and the Maryland State 
Firemen’s Association. He has been inducted 
into the Baltimore County Volunteer 
Firemen’s Association Hall of 
Fame, named Executive Officer of the 
Year, and received the organization’s 
President’s Award. He was recognized 
by the Maryland State Firemen’s Association 
as EMS Provider of the Year 
and recipient of the Gladhill-Thompson 
Trophy. 

At the same time Lee was performing 
all of this public service, he was also 
working as a well-respected attorney, 
volunteering time at the Women’s Law 
Center and the Maryland Bar Association, 
and providing pro bono legal services 
to clients referred by the Maryland 
Volunteer Lawyers Service. 

Lee Sachs has led a life dedicated to 
serving his community. I hope all Senators 
will join me in thanking him for 
his commitment to public service and 
his efforts to ensure the health and 
safety of his fellow Marylanders.S 

f 

MEASURES PLACED ON THE 
CALENDAR 

The following bill was read the second 
time, and placed on the calendar: 

H.R. 6429. An act to amend the Immigration 
and Nationality Act to promote innovation, 
investment, and research in the United 
States, to eliminate the diversity immigrant 
program, and for other purposes. 
f 

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
and were referred as indicated: 

EC–8401. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology 
and Logistics), transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the Defense Environmental Programs 
Annual Report for fiscal year 2011; to 
the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–8402. A communication from the Associate 
Director, Office of Foreign Assets Control, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Cuban Assets Control Regulations’’ 
(31 CFR Part 515) received in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 29, 
2012; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–8403. A communication from the Chairman 
and President of the Export-Import 
Bank, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to a transaction involving U.S. 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7401 

exports to South Korea and China; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–8404. A communication from the Chairman 
and President of the Export-Import 
Bank, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to a transaction involving U.S. 
exports to the United Arab Emirates (UAE); 
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–8405. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Export Administration, 
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Editorial 
Corrections to the Commerce Control 
List of the Export Administration Regulations’’ 
(RIN0694–AF62) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
29, 2012; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–8406. A communication from the Director 
for Internal Control and Management 
Systems, National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Removal 
of Obsolete Regulation’’ (RIN2700–AD78) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 29, 2012; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–8407. A communication from the Assistant 
Regional Director, Fish and Wildlife 
Service, Department of the Interior, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Subsistence Management Regulations 
for Public Lands in Alaska—2012–13 and 
2013–14 Subsistence Taking of Wildlife Regulations’’ 
(RIN1018–AX33) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
30, 2012; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–8408. A communication from the Chief 
of the Permits and Regulations Branch, Fish 
and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Migratory Bird Permits; 
Delegating Falconry Permitting Authority 
to Seven States’’ (RIN1018–AZ16) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 30, 2012; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–8409. A communication from the Chief 
of the Listing Branch, Fish and Wildlife 
Service, Department of the Interior, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife 
and Plants; Revised Critical Habitat for 
the Riverside Fairy Shrimp’’ (RIN1018–AX15) 
received in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 30, 2012; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–8410. A communication from the Chief 
of the Listing Branch, Fish and Wildlife 
Service, Department of the Interior, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife 
and Plants; Designation of Critical Habitat 
for the Southern Selkirk Mountains Population 
of Woodland Caribou’’ (RIN1018– 
AX38) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 30, 2012; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–8411. A communication from the Chief 
of the Listing Branch, Fish and Wildlife 
Service, Department of the Interior, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Endangered and Threatened Wildlife 
and Plants; Designation of Revised Critical 
Habitat for the Northern Spotted Owl’’ 
(RIN1018–AX69) received in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 30, 
2012; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–8412. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, certification of 

proposed issuance of an export license pursuant 
to section 36(d) of the Arms Export Control 
Act (Transmittal No. RSAT 12–2912); to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–8413. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, certification of 
proposed issuance of an export license pursuant 
to section 36(d) of the Arms Export Control 
Act (Transmittal No. DDTC 12–145); to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–8414. A communication from the Chief 
of the Trade and Commercial Regulations 
Branch, Customs and Border Protection, Department 
of Homeland Security, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Informal Entry Limit and Removal of 
a Formal Entry Requirement’’ (RIN1515– 
AD69) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 29, 2012; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–8415. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Branded Prescription 
Drug Fee; Guidance for the 2013 Fee 
Year’’ (Notice 2012–74) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
30, 2012; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–8416. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Tier 2 Rates for 
2013’’ received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 30, 2012; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–8417. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘2013 Standard Mileage 
Rates’’ (Notice 2012–72) received in the 
Office of the President of the Senate on November 
30, 2012; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–8418. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘2013 Section 1274A 
CPI Adjustments’’ (Rev. Rul. 2012–33) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 30, 2012; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–8419. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘2012 Base Period T-
Bill Rate’’ (Rev. Rul. 2012–22) received in the 
Office of the President of the Senate on November 
30, 2012; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–8420. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations and Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Uniform Compliance Date 
for Food Labeling Regulations’’ (Docket No. 
FDA–2000–N–0011) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 30, 
2012; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–8421. A communication from the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Uniform Resource Locator 
(URL) address for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs 2012 Performance and Accountability 
Report; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–8422. A communication from the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Department of Veterans 
Affairs’ Semiannual Report of the Inspector 
General for the period from April 1, 2011 

through September 30, 2012; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–8423. A communication from the Secretary 
of Labor, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the Department of Labor’s Semiannual 
Report of the Inspector General for the period 
from April 1, 2011 through September 30, 
2012; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–8424. A communication from the Vice 
Chairman of the Board of Governors, U.S. 
Postal Service, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the Office of Inspector General’s Semiannual 
Report and the Postal Service management 
response to the report for the period 
of April 1, 2012 through September 30, 
2012; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–8425. A communication from the Chairman, 
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
Board’s fiscal year 2012 Performance and Accountability 
Report; to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 


EC–8426. A communication from the Chief 
Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge 
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the Office of Inspector General’s Semiannual 
Report for the period of April 1, 2012 through 
September 30, 2012; to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 


f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. BEGICH: 

S. 3651. A bill to amend title II of the Social 
Security Act and the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to make improvements in the 
old-age, survivors, and disability insurance 
program, to provide for cash relief for years 
for which annual COLAs do not take effect 
under certain cash benefit programs, and to 
provide for Social Security benefit protection; 
to the Committee on Finance. 
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself and Mr. 
COONS): 

S. 3652. A bill to allow acceleration certificates 
awarded under the Patents for Humanity 
Program to be transferable; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr. 
BOOZMAN, Mr. FRANKEN, and Mr. 
PRYOR): 

S. 3653. A bill to improve the training of 
child protection professionals; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. REID: 

S. 3654. A bill to create equal footing for 
tribal economic development; to the Committee 
on Indian Affairs. 
By Mr. LAUTENBERG (for himself, 
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. LIEBERMAN): 


S. 3655. A bill to provide enhanced disaster 
unemployment assistance to States affected 
by Hurricane Sandy and Tropical Storm 
Sandy of 2012, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Finance. 
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and 
Mr. WICKER): 

S. 3656. A bill to repeal an obsolete provision 
in title 49, United States Code, requiring 
motor vehicle insurance cost reporting; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

S7402 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND 

SENATE RESOLUTIONS 
The following concurrent resolutions 
and Senate resolutions were read, and 
referred (or acted upon), as indicated: 
By Mr. UDALL of New Mexico (for 
himself, Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts, 
Mr. BEGICH, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. 
BINGAMAN, and Ms. MURKOWSKI): 

S. Res. 608. A resolution supporting the establishment 
of a President’s Youth Council; 
to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 
f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 1423 

At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the 
name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1423, a bill to clarify the orphan 
drug exception to the annual fee on 
branded prescription pharmaceutical 
manufacturers and importers. 

S. 2207 

At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the 
name of the Senator from New Hampshire 
(Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2207, a bill to require the 
Office of the Ombudsman of the Transportation 
Security Administration to 
appoint passenger advocates at Category 
X airports to assist elderly and 
disabled passengers who believe they 
have been mistreated by TSA personnel 
and for other purposes. 

S. 2247 

At the request of Mr. LEE, the name 
of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2247, a bill to amend the Federal Reserve 
Act to improve the functioning 
and transparency of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System 
and the Federal Open Market Committee, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 3477 

At the request of Mrs. BOXER, the 
name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 3477, a bill to ensure that 
the United States promotes women’s 
meaningful inclusion and participation 
in mediation and negotiation processes 
undertaken in order to prevent, mitigate, 
or resolve violent conflict and 
implements the United States National 
Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security. 


S. 3626 

At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the 
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
BEGICH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
3626, a bill to provide financing assistance 
for qualified water infrastructure 
projects, and for other purposes. 

S. 3628 

At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the 
name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 3628, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act to raise awareness 
of, and to educate breast cancer patients 
anticipating surgery regarding, 
the availability and coverage of breast 
reconstruction, prostheses, and other 
options. 

S. 3647 

At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Ms. MIKULSKI) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 3647, a bill to amend title 10, 
United States Code, to improve and enhance 
the capabilities of the Armed 
Forces to prevent and respond to sexual 
assault and sexual harassment in 
the Armed Forces, and for other purposes. 


S.J. RES. 45 

At the request of Mrs. HUTCHISON, the 
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of 

S.J. Res. 45, a joint resolution amending 
title 36, United States Code, to designate 
June 19 as ‘‘Juneteenth Independence 
Day’’. 
AMENDMENT NO. 2930 

At the request of Mrs. MCCASKILL, 
the name of the Senator from West 
Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a 
cosponsor of amendment No. 2930 intended 
to be proposed to S. 3254, an 
original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2013 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3004 

At the request of Ms. AYOTTE, the 
name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 3004 intended to be 
proposed to S. 3254, an original bill to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2013 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of 
the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such 
fiscal year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3054 

At the request of Mr. MCCAIN, the 
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr. 
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 3054 proposed to S. 
3254, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2013 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3196 

At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 3196 proposed to S. 
3254, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2013 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3249 

At the request of Mr. BEGICH, the 
name of the Senator from Texas (Mrs. 
HUTCHISON) was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 3249 intended to be proposed 
to S. 3254, an original bill to au


thorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2013 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of 
the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such 
fiscal year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3262 

At the request of Mr. LEVIN, his name 
and the name of the Senator from 
Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added as cosponsors 
of amendment No. 3262 proposed 
to S. 3254, an original bill to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 
2013 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of 
the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such 
fiscal year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3285 

At the request of Ms. AYOTTE, her 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 3285 proposed to S. 
3254, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2013 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

f 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mr. LEAHY (for himself and 
Mr. COONS): 

S. 3652. A bill to allow acceleration 
certificates awarded under the Patents 
for Humanity Program to be transferable; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, our intellectual 
property system in the United 
States is the envy of the world and the 
engine of economic growth. By granting 
inventors exclusive rights in their 
discoveries for a limited time, the patent 
system incentivizes research and 
development by independent inventors 
and large multinational companies. 
Consumers benefit from new technologies, 
and our economy benefits 
from continued investment. 

I am introducing legislation today 
that will encourage patent holders to 
apply their intellectual property to address 
global humanitarian needs. This 
has long been an interest of mine. In 
2006, I introduced legislation that 
would have created a statutory license 
to manufacture and export life saving 
medicines to eligible, developing countries. 


Today’s legislation, rather than creating 
a statutory license, improves on 
a program created by United States 
Patent and Trademark Office, PTO, 
earlier this year. The PTO’s ‘‘Patents 
for Humanity’’ Program provides rewards 
to selected patent holders who 
apply their technology to a humanitarian 
issue that significantly affects 
the public health or quality of life of 
an impoverished population. Those who 
receive the award are given a certificate 
to accelerate certain PTO processes. 



December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7403 

Following a Judiciary Committee 
hearing in June, I asked Director 
Kappos whether the program would be 
more effective, and more attractive to 
patent owners, if the acceleration certificate 
were transferable to a third 
party. He responded that it would, particularly 
for small businesses. The Patents 
for Humanity Program Improvement 
Act of 2012 simply makes these 
acceleration certificates transferable. 

Director Kappos described the Patents 
for Humanity Program as one that 
provides business incentives for humanitarian 
endeavors. All Senators 
should support both the approach and 
the objective. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill be printed 
in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the text of 
the bill was ordered to be printed in 
the RECORD, as follows: 

S. 3652 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Patents for 
Humanity Program Improvement Act of 
2012’’. 

SEC. 2. TRANSFERABILITY OF ACCELERATION 
CERTIFICATES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—A holder of an acceleration 
certificate issued pursuant to the Patents 
for Humanity Program (established in 
the notice entitled ‘‘Humanitarian Awards 
Pilot Program’’, published at 77 Fed. Reg. 
6544 (February 8, 2012)), or any successor 
thereto, of the United States Patent and 
Trademark Office, may transfer (including 
by sale) the entitlement to such acceleration 
certificate to another person. 
(b) REQUIREMENT.—An acceleration certificate 
transferred under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to any other applicable limitations 
under the notice entitled ‘‘Humanitarian 
Awards Pilot Program’’, published at 77 Fed. 
Reg. 6544 (February 8, 2012), or any successor 
thereto. 
By Mr. REID: 

S. 3654. A bill to create equal footing 
for tribal economic development; to 
the Committee on Indian Affairs. 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the text of the bill 
be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the text of 
the bill was ordered to be printed in 
the RECORD as follows: 

S. 3654 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. GAMING ACTIVITIES. 

Section 207 of Public Law 100–89 (25 U.S.C. 

737) is repealed. 
f 

SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS 

SENATE RESOLUTION 608—SUP


PORTING THE ESTABLISHMENT 

OF A PRESIDENT’S YOUTH COUN-

Mr. UDALL of New Mexico (for himself, 
Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts, Mr. 
BEGICH, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. BINGAMAN, 

and Ms. MURKOWSKI) submitted the following 
resolution; which was referred 
to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions: 

S. RES. 608 
Whereas the unique perspectives and insights 
of young people, especially young people 
who have participated in a public policy-
related program, outreach initiative, internship, 
fellowship, or congressionally sponsored 
youth advisory council, are essential 
to ensure that investments made by the Federal 
Government in youth services are effective 
and efficient; 
Whereas existing outreach and engagement 
mechanisms of the Federal Government are 
often designed in ways that inhibit participation 
by, and lead to the under-representation 
of, young people in the policy-making 
process; and 
Whereas numerous Members of Congress, 
Governors, State legislatures, mayors, and 
city councils have created youth councils 
that have proven to be an effective means of 
receiving input from young people, which 
leads to more effective and efficient investments 
in youth services: Now, therefore, be 
it 
Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) supports the establishment with private 
funds of a President’s Youth Council to— 
(A) advise the President and the executive 
branch on the perspectives of young people; 
(B) suggest ways to make investments by 
the Federal Government in youth services 
more effective and efficient; and 
(C) provide recommendations on issues 
that will affect the long-term future of the 
United States; 
(2) recommends that the members of the 
President’s Youth Council be young people 
who— 
(A) are appointed by the President, the majority 
leader and minority leader of the Senate, 
and the Speaker and minority leader of 
the House of Representatives; 
(B) are between 16 and 24 years of age; 
(C) have participated in a public policy-related 
program, outreach initiative, internship, 
fellowship, or congressionally sponsored 
youth advisory council; 
(D) can constructively contribute to policy 
deliberations; 
(E) can conduct outreach to solicit the 
views and perspectives of peers; and 
(F) have backgrounds that reflect the racial, 
socioeconomic, and geographic diversity 
of the United States; and 
(3) recommends that the President’s Youth 
Council as a whole undertake activities to 
solicit the unique views and perspectives of 
young people and bring those views and perspectives 
to the attention of Congress and 
the head of each department or agency of the 
Federal Government. 
f 

AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND 
PROPOSED 

SA 3309. Mr. BLUMENTHAL submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill S. 1947, to prohibit attendance of 
an animal fighting venture, and for other 
purposes. 

f 

TEXT OF AMENDMENTS 
SA 3309. Mr. BLUMENTHAL submitted 
an amendment intended to be 
proposed by him to the bill S. 1947, to 
prohibit attendance of an animal fighting 
venture, and for other purposes; as 
follows: 
On page 2, line 21, insert ‘‘knowingly’’ before 
‘‘cause’’. 

AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO 

MEET 

COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND 
TRANSPORTATION 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
be authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on December 
4, 2012, at 2:30 p.m. in room 253 of the 
Russell Senate Office Building. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Select Committee 
on Intelligence be authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate 
on December 4, 2012, at 2:30 p.m. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

INTERNATIONAL PARENTAL CHILD 
ABDUCTION 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
I ask unanimous consent that the 
Senate proceed to the immediate consideration 
of Calendar No. 528, S. Res. 
543. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 543) to express the 
sense of the Senate on international parental 
child abduction. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution, 
which had been reported from the Committee 
on Foreign Relations, with 
amendments in the nature of a substitute 
to the preamble and the resolutions 
as follows: 

[Strike the parts shown in boldface 
brackets and insert in lieu thereof the 
parts shown in italic.] 

S. RES. 543 

Whereas international parental child abduction 
is a tragic and common occurrence; 

Whereas the abduction of a child by one parent 
is a heartbreaking loss for the left-behind 
parent and deprives the child of a relationship 
with 2 loving parents; 

Whereas, according to the Report on Compliance 
with the Hague Convention on the Civil 
Aspects of International Child Abduction of the 
United States Department of State from April 
2010, research shows that abducted children are 
at risk of significant short- and long-term problems, 
including ‘‘anxiety, eating problems, 
nightmares, mood swings, sleep disturbances, 
[and] aggressive behavior’’; 

Whereas, according to that report, left-behind 
parents may also experience substantial psychological 
and emotional issues, including feelings 
of ‘‘betrayal, sadness over the loss of their children 
or the end of their marriage, anger toward 
the other parent, anxiety, sleeplessness, and severe 
depression’’, as well as financial strain 
while fighting for the return of a child; 

Whereas, since 1988, the United States, which 
has a treaty relationship under the Convention 
on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, 
done at The Hague October 25, 1980 
(TIAS 11670) (referred to in this preamble as the 
‘‘Hague Abduction Convention’’) with 69 other 
countries, has agreed with its treaty partners to 
follow the terms of the Hague Abduction Convention; 



S7404 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 4, 2012 

Whereas the Hague Abduction Convention 
provides a legal framework for securing the 
prompt return of wrongfully removed or retained 
children to the countries of their habitual 
residence where competent courts can make 
decisions on issues of custody and the best interests 
of the children; 

Whereas, according to the United States Department 
of State, the number of new cases of 
international child abduction from the United 
States increased from 579 in 2006 to 941 in 2011; 

Whereas, in 2011, those 941 cases involved 
1,367 children who were reported abducted from 
the United States by a parent and taken to a 
foreign country; 

Whereas, in 2011, more than 660 children who 
were abducted from the United States and taken 
to a foreign country were returned to the United 
States; 

Whereas 7 of the top 10 countries to which 
children from the United States were most frequently 
abducted in 2011 are parties to the 
Hague Abduction Convention, including Mexico, 
Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Ecuador, 
Brazil, and Colombia; 

Whereas Japan, India, and Egypt are not parties 
to the Hague Abduction Convention and 
were also among the top 10 countries to which 
children in the United States were most frequently 
abducted in 2011; 

Whereas, in many countries, such as Japan 
and India, international parental child abduction 
is not considered a crime, and custody rulings 
made by courts in the United States are not 
typically recognized by courts in those countries; 
and 

Whereas Japan is the only member of the 
Group of 7 major industrialized countries that 
has not yet become a party to the Hague Abduction 
Convention: Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, 

That— 

(1) the Senate— 
(A) condemns the international abduction of 
all children; 
(B) urges countries identified by the United 
States Department of State as noncompliant or 
demonstrating patterns of noncompliance with 
the Convention on the Civil Aspects of International 
Child Abduction, done at The Hague 
October 25, 1980 (TIAS 11670) (referred to in this 
resolution as the ‘‘Hague Abduction Convention’’) 
to fulfill their commitment under international 
law to expeditiously implement the provisions 
of the Hague Abduction Convention; 
(C) calls on all countries to become a party to 
the Hague Abduction Convention and to 
promptly institute measures to equitably and 
transparently address cases of international parental 
child abduction; and 
(D) calls on all countries that have not become 
a party to the Hague Abduction Convention 
to develop a mechanism for the resolution 
of current and future cases of international parental 
child abduction that occur before those 
countries become a party to the Hague Abduction 
Convention in order to facilitate the prompt 
return of children abducted to those countries to 
the children’s countries of habitual residence; 
and 
(2) it is the sense of the Senate that the United 
States should— 
(A) vigorously pursue the return of each child 
abducted by a parent from the United States to 
another country through all appropriate means, 
facilitate access by the left-behind parent if the 
child is not returned, and, where appropriate, 
seek the extradition of the parent that abducted 
the child; 
(B) take all appropriate measures to ensure 
that a child abducted to a country that is a 
party to the Hague Abduction Convention is returned 
to the country of habitual residence of 
the child in compliance with the provisions of 
the Hague Abduction Convention; 
(C) continue to use diplomacy to encourage 
other countries to become a party to the Hague 
Abduction Convention and to take the necessary 
steps to effectively fulfill their responsibilities 
under the Hague Abduction Convention; 
(D) use diplomacy to encourage countries that 
have not become a party to the Hague Abduction 
Convention to develop an institutionalized 
mechanism to transparently and expeditiously 
resolve current and future cases of international 
child abduction that occur before those countries 
become a party to the Hague Abduction 
Convention; and 
(E) review the advisory services made available 
to United States citizens by the United 
States Department of State, the United States 
Department of Justice, and other United States 
Government agencies— 
(i) to improve the prevention of international 
parental child abduction from the United States; 
and 
(ii) to ensure that effective and timely assistance 
is provided to United States citizens who 
are parents of children abducted from the 
United States and taken to foreign countries. 
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
I further ask unanimous consent 
that the committee-reported amendment 
be agreed to and the Senate proceed 
to a voice vote on adoption of the 
resolution, as amended. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute was agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
further debate? 

If not, the question is on agreeing to 
the resolution, as amended. 

The resolution (S. Res. 543), as 
amended, was agreed to. 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
I further ask unanimous consent 
that the committee-reported amendment 
to the preamble be agreed to, the 
preamble, as amended, be agreed to, 
the motions to reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table, with 
no intervening action or debate, and 
that any statements relating to the 
measure be printed in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute was agreed to. 

The preamble, as amended, was 
agreed to. 

f 

ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY, 
DECEMBER 5, 2012 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
I ask unanimous consent that 
when the Senate completes its business 
today, it adjourn until 9:30 a.m., on 
Wednesday, December 5, 2012; that following 
the prayer and pledge, the Journal 
of proceedings be approved to date, 
the morning hour be deemed expired, 
and the time for the two leaders be reserved 
for their use later in the day; 
that following leader remarks, the Senate 
be in a period of morning business 
for up to 4 hours, with Senators permitted 
to speak therein for up to 10 
minutes each, except where noted 
below and the time be divided as follows: 
the majority controlling the first 
30 minutes, the Republicans controlling 
the next 30 minutes, Senator 
GRASSLEY controlling the next 45 minutes, 
the majority controlling the next 
45 minutes, the Republicans controlling 
the next 45 minutes, and the majority 
controlling the following 45 minutes; 
and that following morning business, 
the Senate proceed to the consideration 
of H.R. 6156, the Russia trade 
bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

PROGRAM 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
I am informed that we expect to 
complete action on the Russia trade 
bill during tomorrow’s session of the 
Senate. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M. 
TOMORROW 

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, 
if there is no further business to 
come before the Senate, I ask unanimous 
consent that it adjourn under the 
previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 6:30 p.m., adjourned until Wednesday, 
December 5, 2012, at 9:30 a.m. 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1865 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

STEM JOBS ACT OF 2012 

SPEECH OF 

HON. BRAD SHERMAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Friday, November 30, 2012 

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, hundreds of 
millions of hard-working people who are citizens 
of foreign nations want to become Americans. 
That is a testament to the greatness of 
our country. 

America can only accept a limited number 
of those who wish to move to our shores each 
year. Accordingly, we should provide visas in 
a manner that reflects they are a valuable 
asset to be allocated carefully. 

I do not believe the Diversity Visa Lottery is 
a good way to allocate the inherently limited 
number of immigrant visas. I believe that a rational, 
well-designed immigration system 
would not include the Diversity Visa Lottery. 

Given the political climate and legislative 
rules that we face, the passage of the bill before 
us on Friday, November 30, 2012, was 
not a step toward enacting a well-designed, 
rational immigration system. Nor was the 
Democratic Motion to Recommit likely to be 
the basis of a bipartisan reform bill. In any 
case, the bill will not be acted on by the Senate. 


Some of the visas we allocate should go to 
those who can provide the investment capital 
to create jobs within the United States. Some 
of the visas should go for family unification 
and for the humane treatment of refugees and 
persecuted persons. And some visas should 
go to those who have talents and skills that 
our economy needs. However, we need a better 
system than the one provided in this bill. 

I look forward to creating a rational immigration 
system in 2013. 

f 

HONORING UNITED STATES AIR 
FORCE VETERANS 

HON. FREDERICA S. WILSON 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and honor our veterans. 

There are no words that can express the 
gratitude that the American people owe all of 
the men and women who choose to serve the 
United States of America in the armed services. 
We are all humbled by the sacrifice they 
make—knowingly putting themselves in harm’s 
way while also leaving loved ones behind. 
This commitment is the mark of America’s finest 
citizens and those who answer to a higher 
calling. Allow me to honor, from the Air Force: 

Willie H. Duckworth, William Frank 
Kornegay, Lexxie Neloms, Jr., Henry David 
Cunningham. Jr., David A. Bell, Jimmie L. 
Brown, Ronald E. Green, Charles K. Bronson, 
Clarles Flower, Charles Ronnye Johnson, Sr., 

Rolland James, Elizabeth Meyers, George 
Morris, Lee Miller Brown, Sr., Louis Sparks II, 
Benjamin R. Wilson, Roland James, Alfred 
Gordon, Louis Tyler, Christopher Flynn, Clyde 
Hilton, Loyd Harrison, Fred Rosenkoff Derek 
Joy, Otis Kitchen, Carolyn Crowell, Andrea 
Naomi Johnson, Robert A. Sewell, George Albert 
Stewart, Elizabeth Myers, Antonio White, 
Skip Williams, Rodney X. Chain, Stafford 
Nairn, Willard Shepard, Darryl Jones, Ryan 
Ayer; 

Finally, it is not our tanks, weapons or machinery 
that make the United States Armed 
Forces the best military in the world. It is our 
young men and women who serve professionally 
with honor and distinction. If not for 
these exemplary citizens, freedom and the 
American way of life would not be safe and 
secure. For these sacrifices, we respect and 
should commend their service everyday of the 
year. Congress has designated, November 
11th 2012 as the official day showing our gratitude. 


Please join me in honoring these American 
heroes for their bravery and sacrifice in defense 
of this great nation. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker, I was 
out of town due to a family medical situation 
and was not present for rollcall votes Nos. 609 
and 610 on Tuesday, November 27, 2012. 
Had I been present, I would have voted in this 
manner: 

Rollcall vote No. 609—On Motion to Suspend 
the Rules and Pass, as amended, the 
Medical Preparedness Allowable Use Act: 
‘‘yes.’’ 

Rollcall vote No. 610—On Motion to Suspend 
the Rules and Concur in the Senate 
Amendment, the Jamie Zapata Border Enforcement 
Security Task Force Act: ‘‘yes.’’ 

f 

CELEBRATING THE SAN FRANCISCO 
GIANTS 2012 WORLD SERIES 
VICTORY 

HON. NANCY PELOSI 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to the 2012 World Series Champions, 
the San Francisco Giants. On October 
28, 2012, the Giants defeated the Detroit Tigers 
by a score of four to three in game four 
to sweep the World Series, winning the franchise’s 
second championship since the team 
moved to San Francisco from New York in 
1958. By their tremendous victory, our Giants 
once again made us the proudest city in baseball. 


This year, the Giants showed tenacity, 
heart, and teamwork on their path to victory. 
They unleashed their arsenal of reliable starting 
pitching, stellar relief pitching, heroic defense, 
and powerful hitting to outlast their rivals 
in the fiercely contested National League 
Western Division. Their performance was a 
portrait of grit and good sportsmanship from 
the first pitch through the last, and we celebrate 
them for their excellence on and off the 
field. 

There is no one superstar on the Giants’ 
roster; they are a band of brothers who ‘‘play 
for the name on the front of their jerseys, not 
the name on the back.’’ Congratulations to all 
25 players on the playoff roster, including 
World Series Most Valuable Player Pablo 
Sandoval, who demonstrated the true meaning 
of ‘‘Panda Power’’ to the rest of the country, 
and National League Most Valuable Player 
Buster Posey, as well as: Jeremy Affeldt, 
Madison Bumgarner, Matt Cain, Santiago 
Casilla, Tim Lincecum, Javier Lopez, Guillermo 
Mota, George Kontos, Sergio Romo, 
Barry Zito, Ryan Vogelsong, Marco Scutaro, 
Brandon Crawford, Gregor Blanco, Aubrey 
Huff, Brandon Belt, Hunter Pence, Angel 
Pagan, Hector Sanchez, Jose Mijares, Joaquin 
Arias, Ryan Theriot, and Xavier Nady. 

This year’s extraordinary win required a full 
team effort, from the field to the front office. 
While the players poured their hearts out on 
the diamond, the thanks and gratitude of all 
Giants fans also goes to the team’s Chief Executive 
Officer Larry Baer, General Manager 
Brian Sabean, and Manager Bruce Bochy. 
Through their commitment, strategy, guidance, 
and dedication, the 2012 San Francisco Giants 
emerged as the 2012 World Series 
champions. 

The San Francisco community united in 
support behind their team and an estimated 
one million fans turned out to celebrate their 
victory in a parade full of past and present 
San Francisco baseball legends. Congratulations 
to the passionate and devoted Giants 
fans in northern California, across the country, 
and around the world for their unrelenting support 
of the Giants. 

f 

HONORING OUR VETERANS AND 
THEIR FAMILIES THROUGH THE 
AMERICAN VETERANS TRAVELING 
TRIBUTE 

HON. STEVE AUSTRIA 

OF OHIO 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. AUSTRIA. Mr. Speaker, while we can 
never fully express the depth of our appreciation 
for those who have risked and given their 
lives to protect our freedoms, I rise today on 
behalf of the constituents of Ohio’s Seventh 
Congressional District to recognize and honor 
our military veterans and their families through 
the American Veterans Traveling Tribute. 

Our veterans have quietly gone to work and 
war so that Americans can freely pursue their 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E1866 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 4, 2012 

dreams. Their spouses have gone about the 
daily task of keeping the home fires burning, 
and have often sacrificed careers and other 
goals to provide stability at home during constant 
transitions. Furthermore, their children 
have learned to be resilient and appreciative 
of the cost of freedom. They are strong families 
who have contributed to our communities, 
and have defended our Constitution and freedoms. 


The American Veterans Traveling Tribute is 
a mobile memorial dedicated primarily to the 
memory of fallen military members from Vietnam. 
The traveling unit centerpiece of a the 
American Veterans Traveling Tribute is a 380-
foot exact replica of the Vietnam Memorial 
Wall, and the AVTT includes memorial displays 
honoring the veterans of World War 2, 
Korean War, the Gulf War, September 11th attack 
victims and the current War on Terror. 

A non-profit event owned by a retired Army 
Vietnam veteran, there is a patch and coin 
available from the AVTT that is inscribed, ‘‘I 
touched the Wall; the Wall touched me.’’ This 
motto was so very true for a small group of 
veterans and citizens in Greene County, Ohio 
who formed a committee and hosted the 
AVTT in Xenia from October 10–14, 2012. 
They physically touched the Wall, but their 
lives were touched forever along with the lives 
of thousands of visitors who came to Xenia to 
see the AVTT. 

Tim and Susan Spradlin of Xenia proposed 
the project in August 2011. Tim is a retired Air 
Force Reserve first sergeant, a member of the 
Greene County Veterans Service Commission 
plus he and Susan are very active members 
of the Ohio Patriot Guard Riders. A veteran of 
combat in Iraq, Tim was frustrated by the fact 
that age and injuries caused him to retire from 
the reserve in late 2008 at age 49 after 30 
total years of service. He found new ways to 
serve the military with the Patriot Guard and 
the veteran’s commission. In 2010 Susan and 
Tim rode a PGR escort mission in Sidney, 
Ohio for the AVTT display there. On seeing 
the entire display Tim told his wife, ‘‘...Steve 
Molden would love this’’, and so the idea of 
hosting the AVTT in Xenia was first born. 

Steve Molden is a Vietnam veteran in 
Xenia, who proudly served with the 3rd Brigade 
of the 82nd Airborne Division. Now retired 
from Greene County services department, 
Steve is also a former volunteer member 
of the Xenia Township Fire Department 
and Greene County Rescue, where Tim 
Spradlin had met him many years ago. For 
many years Steve had been frustrated in his 
efforts to organize Veterans Day and Memorial 
Day ceremonies or parades in Xenia. Tim was 
aware of Steve’s frustration and wanted to do 
something special for Steve and other Vietnam 
veterans like him. Activated in 1991 for 
the Desert Shield / Desert Storm conflict, Tim 
never forgot that there were Vietnam veterans 
across the nation who stood up in support of 
the new generation of military, loudly proclaiming 
that these war vets would not be 
abused or mistreated as many Vietnam vets 
had been. Tim suggested to the Veterans 
Commission that they could host the AVTT, 
and the committee was born. 

First to join the local AVTT committee was 
Steve Molden and veteran’s service office director 
Lame Woodward. Lance is a disabled 
Navy veteran who was part of the AVTT display 
planning in Clermont County, Ohio in 
2003. Susan followed her husband and 

agreed to serve as the treasurer for the group, 
and Steve’s wife Karen joined as the volunteer 
coordinator, to honor her husband and her 
uncle, member of the Order of the Purple 
Heart for wounds in Vietnam. 

Steve Molden also brought his old friend 
Jim McMichaels on board. Jim is a Navy veteran 
of Vietnam, a high school classmate of 
Steve, and they both personally knew some of 
the 34 sons of Greene County who were killed 
in Vietnam, and whose names were engraved 
on the Wall. Other members of the community 
stepped up to serve also, including Jim Kennedy 
and Helena Curtis. Helena is a former 
deputy sheriff and cancer survivor whose spirit 
and dedication as unmatched. She said she 
was inspired to serve on the committee in 
honor of her father and grandfather who were 
military war veterans. Jim Madsen, a retired 
Air Force officer and federal civilian was proud 
to join the group and dedicated hundreds of 
hours, stating it was his personal way to say 
thank you, that he felt the need to do more 
since he had never been tasked to go to war 
during his service years. 

As the committee worked for a year to plan 
the AVTT event many other citizens, spouses, 
veterans and business people joined the effort. 
For Susan Spradlin it was hard work but 
a labor of love, honoring her husband as an 
Iraq vet, a tribute to her late father who was 
a Navy veteran of Korea, and her brother who 
was disabled due to service in the Gulf War. 
Betty Zentiara is 80 years old, a Marine Corps 
veteran of Korea and dedicated many hours of 
her time to working in the kitchen at the event 
to serve refreshments to the many volunteers. 
Master Sergeant Jason Larimore, an active 
duty member from Wright-Patterson Air Force 
Base joined the effort and recruited many active 
duty Air Force personnel to man the Wall 
at night, providing security. David ‘‘Smitty’’ 
Smith, retired Greene County deputy sheriff 
and 101st Airborne veteran of Vietnam was 
very honored to serve and inspired to bring 
out his motorcycle ad joined the Ohio Patriot 
Guard Riders as a result of his experience on 
the AVTT committee. Marine veteran Ed 
Vance tearfully told his fellow committee members 
that the experience had ‘‘changed his 
life’’. There were two church pastors who participated 
in the event and ceremonies; both 
were also Vietnam veterans. Many fire and 
law enforcement personnel also got involved, 
notably Captain Doug Cope, a shift commander 
with the City of Xenia Fire Division 
and a veteran of the rescue team deployment 
to New York City after the September 11th attacks 
on the World Trade Center. 

Steve and Karen Molden worked to create 
34 plaques with the names, ranks, service information 
and dates for the Greene County 
citizens killed in Vietnam. These plaques were 
placed at the base of The Wall during the 4 
day display, a touching personal memory of 
the local sacrifice paid by the community. 
Some of the families for those killed in action 
came to see the Wall in Xenia and they were 
presented with the plaque in honor of their fallen 
brother. 

Over the 4 day display of the AVTT there 
was a motorcycle escort parade, music and 
concerts, a police and fire September 11th 
memorial service, and numerous interactions, 
reunions and fellowship. Steve Molden and 
Jim McMichaels were out at the Wall almost 
constantly, leaving late at night for some sleep 
and then back early the next day, walking, sit


ting in a golf cart or on a bench, talking, 
teaching and sharing . . . not only were they 
paying tribute to the fallen, but they were honoring 
all veterans by educating others about 
Vietnam, the war and the people who fought 
it. Watching these veterans and others find 
healing through this project was so rewarding. 

The pinnacle event was the military memorial 
service on Saturday October 13th. Guest 
speakers included Congressman Steve Austria, 
Ohio Patriot Guard captain Bob Woods 
(US Army Vietnam), AVTT owner Don Allen 
(US Army Vietnam) and Major General Ed 
Mechenbier, US Air Force Vietnam, who was 
shot down while flying an F4 aircraft and spent 
nearly 6 years in a POW cell. There was not 
a dry eye in the large crowd as the 34 names 
of Greene County KIA were read. ‘‘Sorry for 
crying, but I went to high school with some of 
these guys, ‘‘ explained a tearful Jim 
McMichaels as he and Vietnam vets Steve 
Molden, Sam Wallace, Pastor John Corcoran 
and Pastor Wes Barnhill read the details of 
the fallen. The end of the reading was followed 
by the USAF band, the bagpipes playing 
Amazing Grace and a bugler playing 
‘‘Taps’’ as a memorial wreath was laid at the 
apex of the Wall. For Steve Molden, Tim 
Spradlin and Jim McMichaels it was the end of 
a long year, as they sat down on a park bench 
near the wall and shared tears of joy for the 
good they had done together, and the blessing 
of surviving their wars. 

Inspired by the dedication and initiative of 
so many people, the Greene County Veterans 
Tribute Committee will continue to make a difference. 
After all the AVTT bills were paid, the 
committee donated part of their remaining 
funding to the Honor Flight program and part 
to the Wounded Warrior Project. The remainder 
will be kept in the non-profit endowment 
fund as the seed money for a new project; we 
have a vision to build a suitable large war memorial 
for all Greene County veterans and 
families on the lawn of the county courthouse. 
With the support of the community, the Members 
have no doubt that they can continue to 
serve local veterans, serve the community, the 
nation and with God’s blessings create a permanent 
tribute to all Greene County citizens 
who have served in the United States Armed 
Forces or paid the ultimate cost of freedom. 

I am grateful that Greene County, located 
within my district, was granted the opportunity 
to remember and celebrate the lives of veterans 
and first responders through the American 
Veterans Traveling Tribute. All those who 
worked to make this event happen are to be 
commended for their time and efforts. It was 
a bittersweet time to remember both those 
who came home from Vietnam and other wars 
as well as those who never had the chance. 

Thus, today I ask my colleagues to join me 
and the constituents of Ohio’s Seventh Congressional 
District in honoring our military veterans 
and their families for their continued and 
selfless service to the land of the free. 

f 

HONORING THE SONOMA COUNTY 

HISPANIC CHAMBER OF COM


MERCE 

HON. MIKE THOMPSON 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise today to honor The Sonoma Hispanic 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1867 

County Chamber of Commerce, of Santa 
Rosa, California on the occasion of their 25th 
anniversary celebration. 

The mission of the Hispanic Chamber of 
Commerce is to promote and support Sonoma 
County businesses with a commitment towards 
creating a healthy business environment 
through education, civic, and economic 
programs. They are an association of individuals, 
organizations, and business professionals 
working together to enhance our local 
economy and foster a positive cultural image. 

The Hispanic Chamber of Commerce of 
Sonoma County was founded in the spring of 
1987, and has since greatly expanded its 
membership and endeavors. Originally known 
as the Latino Breakfast Club, it formalized into 
a network of professionals, entrepreneurs, 
business people, and community leaders— 
Hispanic and non-Hispanic—who recognize 
the importance of the Hispanic community and 
its impact on society. 

In the last 24 years, the Chamber has 
raised over $280,000 for the Hispanic Chamber 
of Commerce Scholarship Fund, which 
has been distributed to over 300 students living 
in Sonoma County. These scholarships 
have helped many rising Latino students reach 
their goals by supporting their financial needs. 
Bilingual parent/student workshops were instituted 
in order to complement the scholarship 
program, and have since provided information 
on FAFSA, financial aid, and the college transition. 


In order to get further involved in the community, 
the Sonoma County Chamber of Commerce 
established the Leadership Academy, 
modeled after the well-respected program developed 
by the Press Democrat, The Press 
Democrat Leadership Forum. The Leadership 
Academy was created with the objectives of 
encouraging a new generation of leaders in 
Sonoma County and facilitating an ongoing 
dialogue that helps members of the Hispanic 
Chamber of Commerce understand all the 
ways our hometowns are changing. 

Members of the Sonoma County Hispanic 
Network have an opportunity to create a difference 
in the community. Through the membership 
their voices are heard in the political, 
social, economic, and educational arenas. 

Mr. Speaker, it is appropriate at this time 
that we acknowledge The Sonoma County 
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce for their extraordinary 
work. 

f 

RECOGNIZING MR. WADE NORWOOD 
OF ROCHESTER, NEW 
YORK, WINNER OF THE ‘‘ROCK IN 
THE POND’’ AWARD 

HON. LOUISE McINTOSH SLAUGHTER 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, it is my esteemed 
honor to recognize Mr. Wade Nor-
wood of the Finger Lakes Health Systems 
Agency (FLHSA) in Rochester, New York, who 
was today awarded the ‘‘Rock in the Pond’’ 
Unsung Heroes of Public Health Award by the 
Campaign for Public Health. I am immensely 
proud of Wade and the work that he and the 
FLHSA do for the citizens of Rochester. 

Wade has dedicated his life to ensuring 
long-term community change for today’s fami


lies and future generations. When it comes to 
public health, he is a true ‘‘rock in the pond’’— 
advocating for the betterment of our community, 
with a keen interest for the underserved 
and the most vulnerable. He gives a voice to 
those who do not have one, and advocates 
health care equity for all, whether in his role 
as Director of Community Engagement at the 
FLHSA, as Pastor of the Holy Jerusalem Spiritual 
Church in Rochester, NY, or as a member 
of the New York State Board of Regents. 

At FLHSA, Wade plays a crucial role in convening 
programs that improve public health, 
such as the local Partnership for the Uninsured, 
the Rochester Area Task Force on 
AIDS, the Coalition to Prevent Lead Poisoning, 
the African-American Health Coalition 
and the Latino Health Coalition, and Healthi 
Kids, among others. He has been the face 
and voice of statewide health care improvement 
as he has led the FLHSA’s effort to reduce 
health disparities, helping to shape the 
Agency’s community engagement efforts and 
providing leadership to issues that have a tremendous 
impact on the health of the city of 
Rochester and the Finger Lakes region. He 
heads up a program called Healthi Kids, which 
advocates for policy changes that prevent 
childhood obesity, and which has resulted in 
returning recess into Rochester City School 
District (RCSD) elementary schools and working 
with the RCSD to provide healthier, more 
nutritional and culturally relevant meals during 
the school year and summer camps. As a result, 
approximately 30,000 children and youth 
receive healthier school meals daily. 

Wade also convenes the Coalition to Prevent 
Lead Poisoning in Rochester, an education 
and advocacy organization composed 
of nearly 100 individuals and community organizations 
dedicated to eliminating childhood 
lead poisoning in Monroe County. The program 
received the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s (EPA) Environmental Justice 
Achievement Award for its leadership in community-
based efforts to prevent childhood lead 
poisoning. It has influenced major lead-related 
public policy changes, including a local lead 
ordinance requiring inspections for lead paint 
hazards. 

Under Wade’s leadership, the High Blood 
Pressure Collaborative aims to reduce the incidence 
of hypertension and its devastating effects 
(heart disease, kidney disease, and 
stroke) through a collaborative approach and 
community engagement. The program includes 
working with employers to establish 
worksite wellness initiatives, collaborating with 
faith and community based organizations in 
inner city neighborhoods where residents find 
barriers in accessing care, and working with 
health providers to improve their practices’ 
control rate of high blood pressure. In 2012 
alone, the Collaborative provided over 7,000 
face-to-face blood pressure readings and consultations, 
and another 6,000 with kiosks strategically 
located in public facilities, such as libraries. 


Wade has expanded the roles of the Health 
Disparities/African American and Latino Health 
Coalitions to ensure there is a community 
table that is truly representative, and that all 
voices are heard. Wade and the members of 
the coalitions address diseases of deep impact 
to minorities, which include metabolic 
syndrome and high blood pressure. This effort 
included engaging 19 churches—including his 
own—with a membership in excess of 5,000 

minority congregants, to engage in screening 
and health literacy programs. 

Wade also led the Partnership on the Uninsured 
in its evaluation of insurance coverage 
barriers, defining community-wide strategies to 
address these barriers, and implementing a 
strategic approach to diminishing the number 
of those without health insurance. 

Whether it is through his extensive work 
with FLHSA, on volunteer boards, in his parish, 
or in the many civic roles he holds, Wade 
embodies the ‘‘Rock in the Pond’’ award he 
has received. He makes a difference in the 
health and well-being of all in our community. 
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring Mr. 
Wade Norwood for his commitment, his selflessness, 
and his passion to improve the 
health and lives of all those around him. 

f 

HONORING THE 60TH ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE MUSEUM OF HISTORY 
& INDUSTRY AND THE 
GRAND OPENING OF ITS NEW 
MUSEUM AT LAKE UNION PARK 

HON. JIM McDERMOTT 

OF WASHINGTON 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. MCDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to honor the 60th anniversary of the Museum 
of History & Industry (MOHAI) in Seattle, and 
to salute the museum as it prepares for the 
Grand Opening of its new museum at Lake 
Union Park on December 29, 2012. 

Since its founding in 1952, MOHAI has established 
itself as the preeminent history center 
in the Seattle region, engaging over 
100,000 visitors and 17,000 students and their 
teachers each year in the exploration of the 
history, character and development of Seattle 
and the Central Puget Sound region. 

Drawing on a collection of more than 4 million 
historic artifacts, archives, photographs 
and oral histories, MOHAI exhibits and programs 
bring visitors face-to-face with the challenges 
of the past so that they can make informed 
decisions for the future. Working with 
school districts from across the region, MOHAI 
programs foster the civic literacy which is so 
essential to a strong community, and the museum 
provides a full range of scholarship 
services so that all students have access to 
the power of history. 

With the opening of its expansive new museum 
in the landmark Naval Reserve Armory 
at Lake Union Park, MOHAI is poised to 
launch a history museum distinguished by 
leading edge technology, research and educational 
programs, which will serve the Seattle 
area for the 21st Century. 

In recognition of its excellence, MOHAI is 
accredited by the American Alliance of Museums, 
is an official affiliate of the Smithsonian 
Institution, and was selected by Museum Magazine 
as one of the 60 international ‘‘museums 
that matter.’’ 

As we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the 
Museum of History & Industry, I would like to 
convey my congratulations to MOHAI on the 
opening of its new museum and its expanding 
work to ensure that the lessons of history are 
shared with generations to come. 


E1868 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 4, 2012 

HONORING NATHAN WILONDEK 

HON. ROBERT E. LATTA 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
Mr. Nathan Wilondek, of Defiance 
Ohio. Mr. Wilondek was awarded the Distinguished 
Flying Cross on Monday, November 
12 during a Veterans Day program at Tinora 
High School 

The Distinguished Flying Cross (DFC) is a 
military decoration awarded to any officer or 
enlisted member of the United States Armed 
Forces who distinguishes himself or herself in 
support of operations by ‘‘heroism or extraordinary 
achievement while participating in an 
aerial flight, subsequent to November 11, 
1918.’’ 

Wilondek was a Warrant Office 1 helicopter 
pilot serving in the Republic of Vietnam. On 
August 18, 1969, WO1 Wilondek volunteered 
along with his crew to fly a resupply mission 
to an infantry company that had become completely 
surrounded by the NVA. Without 
gunship cover WO1 Wilondek and his crew 
(Wallace Honda, Stewart Brooks, and Terry 
Paxton) flew nap of the earth down a hillside 
and hovered the UH–1 Huey low enough to 
drop ammo and supplies to the embattled infantrymen. 


The entire time the re-supply was happening 
the NVA were hitting the helicopter 
with accurate small arms fire, and WO1 
Wilondek’s door gunner was unable to return 
fire because the US troops were too closely 
intermingled with NVA in close combat. It was 
determined that without the re-supply effort of 
WO1 Wilondek and his crew, the infantry unit 
would have been completely overrun by NVA, 
instead they survived. Mr. Wilondek is awarded 
this DFC for his heroism that day. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me 
in the acknowledgment of Nathan Wilondek’s 
heroism and recognize his service and dedication 
to our country. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. DONALD A. MANZULLO 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. MANZULLO. Mr. Speaker, I missed recorded 
votes last week attending to official 
business back in the district. If I had been 
here, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Rollcall No. 
609; ‘‘yea’’ on Rollcall No. 610; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll-
call No. 611; ‘‘nay’’ on Rollcall No. 612; and 
‘‘yea’’ on Rollcall No. 613. 

f 

CONGRATULATING MR. LARRY 
LANG OF HOLMES COUNTY 

HON. BOB GIBBS 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. GIBBS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Mr. 
Larry Lang of Big Prairie, OH who has spent 
over twenty years of his life serving the 
Holmes County community through the Red 

Cross, local school boards, Farm Bureau and 
other programs with outstanding dedication, 
honor and merit. Mr. Lang is a model citizen 
and his efforts are truly inspiring. He has been 
an excellent example and partner in working 
with the Amish community and his amazing efforts 
in recruiting platelet donors have saved 
countless lives. 

Mr. Lang’s strong relationship with the 
Amish community in Holmes County has resulted 
in an Amish representative being 
present on the Holmes County Chapter board 
and has led to thousands of hours of volunteer 
service from the Amish community. Mr. Lang 
has served as assistant director of the Holmes 
County Chapter of the American Red Cross 
and is the recipient of this year’s prestigious 
Biomedical Partnership Award from the American 
Red Cross for his tremendous efforts resulting 
in 490 donors, 3600 platelet units and 
approximately 6100 single donor platelet units. 
Mr. Lang personally made over 300 trips to 
support, donate and bring donors to the 
Cleveland apheresis center. 

Mr. Speaker, I am proud and honored to 
represent a man who has worked tirelessly on 
behalf of others and who has made such a 
positive and lasting impact on my community. 
I ask all of our colleagues to join me in congratulating 
Mr. Larry Lang for receiving the 
Biomedical Partnership Award from the American 
Red Cross. 

f 

CARRIE BAZEWICZ 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud Carrie 
Bazewicz for her service to our community 
and receiving the 2012 Mayor of Golden’s 
Award for Excellence. 

Carrie brought the Environmental Learning 
for the Future program to Mitchell Elementary 
in Golden, Colorado. This program promotes 
the understanding and appreciation of the natural 
world to each of the young students. Her 
commitment to the education of the children in 
Golden serves as a model for teachers 
throughout the state of Colorado and our nation. 


Carrie exemplifies education and preservation 
of Golden’s beauty. She encourages and 
empowers her students as an enthusiastic, 
supportive classroom volunteer. 

As a recipient of one of the Mayor of 
Golden’s 2012 Awards for Community Excellence, 
Carrie was chosen based on her outstanding 
initiatives, leadership, problem-solving, 
and community values, all of which directly 
aided the community of Golden in its 
great success this past year. 

Carrie Bazewicz has been a champion in 
the community and I am honored to congratulate 
her on receiving the 2012 Mayor of 
Golden’s Award for Excellence. I am sure she 
will exhibit the same dedication and commitment 
to all her future endeavors. 

HONORING UNITED STATES COAST 

GUARD VETERANS 

HON. FREDERICA S. WILSON 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and honor our veterans. 

There are no words that can express the 
gratitude that the American people owe all of 
the men and women who choose to serve the 
United States of America in the armed services. 
We are all humbled by the sacrifice they 
make—knowingly putting themselves in harm’s 
way while also leaving loved ones behind. 
This commitment is the mark of America’s finest 
citizens and those who answer to a higher 
calling. Allow me to honor, from the United 
States Coast Guard: Sammie Stewart, Jr., 
Steven Bernard Rising, Omar K. Payton, 
Shane J. Nicholas, Randy Kevin Jopp, Jr., 
David R. Hetticher, Andrea Naomi Johnson, 
Christopher Daniels, William O’Boyle, Jacob 

G. Bryan, Sandy Guerra, Eric Driggs; from the 
National Security Agency: Allyn C. McKinney. 
Finally, it is not our tanks, weapons or machinery 
that make the United States Armed 
Forces the best military in the world. It is our 
young men and women who serve professionally 
with honor and distinction. If not for 
these exemplary citizens, freedom and the 
American way of life would not be safe and 
secure. For these sacrifices, we respect and 
should commend their service everyday of the 
year. Congress has designated, November 
11th 2012 as the official day showing our gratitude. 


Please join me in honoring these American 
heroes for their bravery and sacrifice in defense 
of this great nation. 

f 

INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTION 
TO CREATE A HOUSE SELECT 
COMMITTEE ON THE TERRORIST 
ATTACK ON THE U.S. CONSULATE 
IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA 

HON. FRANK R. WOLF 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. WOLF. Mr. Speaker, today I have introduced 
a resolution to establish a House Select 
Committee on the Terrorist Attack in Benghazi 
to ensure a unified investigation of the attack 
and the Obama Administration’s response. A 
select committee is essential to combine the 
myriad existing investigations into a single, 
comprehensive and exhaustive review. I believe 
such a combined effort will yield even 
more information regarding the true nature of 
these terrorist attacks and the administration’s 
response. 

More than 80 days have passed since the 
terrorist attack on the U.S. consulate and 
annex that occurred during the late evening 
and early morning hours of September 11–12. 
The attack took the lives of four Americans, including 
a U.S. ambassador—the first ambassador 
to be killed in the line of duty since 
1979. Yet the American people still have been 
told little about the timeline of this attack and 
the administration’s response in the hours, 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1869 

days and weeks following. The American people 
still haven’t been provided answers to serious 
questions. For example, why was additional 
security denied to the ambassador? 
What intelligence was known about the threat 
prior to the attacks? There are also serious 
questions about links of this terrorist attack to 
the protests at the U.S. embassies in Cairo, 
Egypt, Tunis, Tunisia and Sanaa, Yemen that 
same week—where each American compound 
was breached by individuals allegedly linked 
to al Qaeda-affiliated groups. What, if any, 
were the connections between these incidents 
and the attack in Benghazi? 

These questions are too serious—and the 
consequences too grave—to be brushed 
aside. There are critical legislative decisions 
the next Congress will have to make based on 
the answers of these questions. But more importantly, 
the American people deserve answers 
to these questions—including open 
hearings and an unclassified report. 

The select committee I am proposing should 
draw from the existing congressional investigations 
by including the chairman and ranking 
member of each committee of jurisdiction—
Intelligence, Foreign Affairs, Judiciary, 
Armed Services and Oversight and Government 
Reform—as well as five additional Republicans 
appointed by the Speaker and two 
additional Democrats appointed by the Minority 
Leader. 

I appreciate the support I have received for 
this resolution from the original cosponsors, as 
well as the Heritage Foundation. I also submit 
for the record a recent op-ed that was published 
on RealClearPolitics.com by former 
Senator Fred Thompson articulating the benefits 
of a unified select committee. Senator 
Thompson has a unique perspective on the 
need for this committee given his experience 
as counsel on the Senate select committee on 
Watergate. 

Mr. Speaker, we owe it to the families of the 
victims, and the American people, to fully investigate 
this terrorist attack. I urge my colleagues 
to support this resolution. 

[Nov. 28, 2012] 

INVESTIGATING BENGHAZI: WHY WE NEED A 

SELECT COMMITTEE 

(By Fred Thompson) 

As we fixate on the latest version of Gen. 
David Petraeus’ testimony or the misleading 
statements of Susan Rice, I suggest that we 
stop and think about the size of what we are 
dealing with. The Benghazi tragedy raises 
questions concerning the protection of our 
embassies, the performance and capabilities 
of our military and our intelligence community, 
as well as the decisions of high-ranking 
officials in the Department of Defense, the 
State Department, the White House and possibly 
the Justice Department. 

The scope of the questions that involve an 
array of officials, and sensitive agencies and 
departments of our government, is unprecedented. 
The inquiry into what happened and 
why, along with who is or should be accountable, 
calls for a focused, responsible effort 
equal to the seriousness and the complexities 
the issues. 

I’ve seen this rodeo before, both in a constructive 
manner (Watergate, where I served 
as a counsel) and a less-than-constructive 
one (Clinton-era investigations, where I 
chaired a committee that probed at least one 
facet of the various scandals). On our present 
course, the prospects for a relatively short 
but thorough, credible, bipartisan congressional 
investigation are not good. The prospects 
for a disjointed, drawn-out mess, re


plete with partisan bickering, are much better. 


It is easy to identify at least eight congressional 
committees (four in each chamber) 
with claims of jurisdiction in the Benghazi 
matter. No committee has jurisdiction over 
all of it, and several committees have jurisdiction 
over parts that overlap with the jurisdictions 
of other committees. Some of the 
committee hearings will involve classified 
information and will be conducted behind 
closed doors. Members of ‘‘Committee A’’ 
will not know what a witness told ‘‘Committee 
B’’ in a closed hearing. Gen. Petraeus’ 
recent appearance on Capitol Hill demonstrates 
how difficult it can be to get a consistent 
story when the witness is making 
multiple appearances before even the same 
committee. 

Perhaps not all committees with jurisdiction 
will have hearings, but if half of them 
do it will produce competing hearings, with 
competing staffs and competing press conferences 
over much of Capitol Hill. It will 
also take longer than necessary, as government 
officials shuffle back and forth giving 
repeat performances. Different committee 
chairmen and their committees will make 
different rulings on document production, 
whether to move for immunity for witnesses 
who refuse to testify on the basis of the 5th 
Amendment, and a host of other matters. 

This is simply not the most efficient and 
credible way to proceed. And it is less likely 
to arrive at the truth. The seriousness of the 
matter calls for something better. It calls for 
a select committee that is given a specific 
mandate, a budget and a cut-off date that 
can be adjusted if it is agreed upon. It needs 
to be comprised of members of both parties 
who have been selected by their leadership 
because of their proven integrity, reputation 
for fairness, and expertise in a given area. 

In a matter fraught with political implications, 
it is especially important that Congress 
accept its responsibility and minimize 
partisanship as much as possible. History 
demonstrates that this goal is much easier 
to achieve with a handful of selected people 
than it is with many. Since 1789, when Congress 
investigated a failed military expedition, 
select committees have been utilized to 
serve such important and sensitive functions, 
and the Benghazi matter should follow 
in that long tradition, whether by means of 
a joint committee of both houses of Congress 
or by either chamber. 

Most select committees have become historical 
footnotes. Some, however, are well 
remembered because of the contribution 
they made to helping Congress carry out its 
duties of legislating, overseeing the executive 
branch and educating the American people 
as to the operation of their government. 
Ironically, it is because of the success of 
these panels that some members of Congress 
and others oppose the formation of one in 
this case. 

They say that forming a select committee 
for a matter such as Benghazi, where a consulate 
and four American lives were lost, 
would attach too much importance to the investigation. 
They fear that it would be 
equating it with Watergate. Of course, if the 
Watergate standard, as they define it, is now 
the operative standard for the formation of a 
select committee, then seldom, if ever, will 
another select committee be formed. 

Critics of the select committee miss the 
point on several levels. First of all, if indeed 
a comparison is to be made, one must look at 
the seriousness of facts and issues presented 
concerning Benghazi and compare them with 
the seriousness of facts and issues presented 
at the times when other select committees, 
such as Watergate, were formed. So compare 
the Watergate burglary with what we have 
here. Can there be any doubt that Benghazi 
passes the Watergate test? 

The wisdom of utilizing a select committee 
should not just be judged on the outcome of 
the committee’s work; dramatic results are 
not always achieved or warranted. The select 
Watergate Committee is a beneficial reference 
point, not because of the end result of 
its investigation a year and a half after it 
was formed, but because of the process Congress 
utilized to deal with a difficult situation. 


At that time, we had a Republican president 
and a Congress controlled by the Democrats. 
Yet the Senate voted unanimously to 
form the committee. Democratic leadership 
appointed Sen. Sam Ervin, reputed to be the 
chamber’s leading constitutional scholar, to 
chair the committee. The Republican leader 
appointed Sen. Howard Baker to be the vice 
chairman and leading member of his party 
on the committee—a senator who was respected 
on both sides of the aisle. These men 
protected the legitimate partisan interests 
of their respective parties and the path was 
not always smooth, especially behind closed 
doors, but they understood that their colleagues, 
as well as the nation, were depending 
upon them to be responsible and seek the 
truth. Authority and accountability were 
clearly placed on the committee, and its 
members performed accordingly. 

Select committees are not perfect creations 
by any means. A clear narrative is 
often difficult to produce under any circumstances. 
However, a select committee is 
simply much more likely to produce focused 
and credible results. Soon we will see if the 
United States Congress is still capable of 
coming together toward the common goal of 
getting to the bottom of a very serious matter. 
Or, are decisions about select committees 
simply reflective of positions based 
upon whose ox is in danger of being gored? 

f 

TRIBUTE TO ANN DAWSON 
AUGUST 

HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN 

OF SOUTH CAROLINA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, it is a bittersweet 
occasion as I rise today to congratulate 
Ms. Ann Dawson August on being named Executive 
Director of the Birmingham-Jefferson 
County Transit Authority in Birmingham, Alabama. 
As she accepts this position, she is 
leaving the Santee-Wateree Regional Transportation 
Authority (SWRTA) in Sumter, South 
Carolina, where she has se ed as the Executive 
Director of SWRTA for the past 11 years. 
She leaves behind a stellar record and will be 
sorely missed. 

A native of Sumter, South Carolina, Ms. August 
spent 39 years in Philadelphia, where 
she attended public schools and La Salle University 
before working for 13 years for the 
Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority 
(SEPTA), the fifth largest transit authority 
in the country. In 1997, she demonstrated 
her versatility when she transferred her talents 
from the urban SEPTA system to SWRTA, the 
second largest urban and rural transportation 
authority in South Carolina. 

Ann’s service in the transportation arena 
has extended far beyond SWRTA. She is a 
member of the Sumter County Transportation 
Committee and the Transportation Research 
Analysis Committee for the Transportation Research 
Board in Washington, DC. From 2009 
to 2011, she was the Chair of the Transit Cooperative 
Research Program Oversight and 


(Rectangle comment December 6, 2012 Congressional Record
12/7/2012 1:23:07 AM
December 4, 2012 on E1870 the following appeared: Mr. Speaker, I ask this body join with me in mourning the loss of this brave and noble police officer who not only resented Minnesota, but a force which protects citizens across this great country.
The online version should be corrected to read: Mr. Speaker, I ask this body join with me in mourning the loss of this brave and noble police officer who represented not only Minnesota,
but a force which protects citizens across this great country.)
(Text Box comment CORRECTION)
E1870 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 4, 2012 

Project Selection Committee, and she is currently 
the Southeast Regional Director of the 
Community Transportation Association of 
America. 

Ms. August has garnered media acclaim 
during this distinguished career. In 2007, 
SWRTA was featured in Mass Transit Magazine, 
and in 2008, Ms. August contributed to 
the magazine’s ‘‘Manager’s Forum’’ on the 
topic ‘‘How a Board Can Help Directors Manage 
Systems.’’ 

An asset to the community in numerous capacities 
outside of transportation, Ms. August 
previously served as Vice President of the 
YWCA of the Upper Lowlands Membership 
Committee and is the immediate past Chair of 
the United Way of Sumter. She served 30 
years in the Army Reserves, retiring in 2004. 
Ann is married to Henry August Jr., a transportation 
professional who retired from SEPTA 
after serving 35 years in the industry; they 
have two adult children and five grandchildren. 

Mr. Speaker, Ms. August will be missed in 
South Carolina, but I have no doubt that our 
loss will be Alabama’s gain. I ask that you and 
my colleagues join me in wishing Ms. Ann 
Dawson August all the best and Godspeed in 
her future endeavors. 

f 

HONORING OFFICER THOMAS 
DECKER UPON HIS DEATH 

HON. MICHELE BACHMANN 

OF MINNESOTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mrs. BACHMANN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to honor Officer Thomas Decker of the Cold 
Springs Police Department. On November 29, 
Officer Decker was killed in the line of duty 
while trying to help a man believed to be suicidal. 


Officer Decker was a Minnesota boy 
through and through, growing up on a dairy 
farm near Cold Spring. After attending Rocori 
High School, he went on to serve as a police 
officer for 10 years, serving in the communities 
of Isle, Watkins, Kimball, and the Cold 
spring/Richmond Police Department. He 
bravely served the citizens of central Minnesota 
and those who knew him called him a 
hero who loved his family. He leaves behind 
a wife, four young children, parents, siblings 
and a community who loved him. 

Officer Decker’s death tears at the 
heartstrings of a small town who knows all too 
well the sting of heartbreaking tragedy. This 
community lost another son to senseless 
bloodshed. It is hard to grasp why such violence 
occurs, but it is important that friends 
and neighbors stick together in these trying 
times. My thoughts and prayers are with the 
Decker family as they deal with this painful 
loss, especially five-year-old Devon, six-year-
old Justin, seven-year-old Jade and eight-
year-old Kelly. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask this body join with me in 
mourning the loss of this brave and noble police 
officer who represented not only Minnesota, 
but a force which protects citizens 
across this great country. 

IN RECOGNITION OF THE RETIRE


MENT OF DR. PHILLIP HAM


MONDS 

HON. MIKE ROGERS 

OF ALABAMA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I 
would like to join my colleagues Congressman 
SPENCER BACHUS and Congresswoman TERRI 
SEWELL in asking for the House’s attention 
today to recognize Dr. Phillip Hammonds who 
is retiring as the Superintendent of Jefferson 
County Schools after nearly 40 years of service 
to Alabama’s school systems. 

Dr. Phillip Hammonds received his Bachelor 
degree in English Education from Evangel 
College in Springfield, Missouri. Soon after, he 
received his Master’s degree from the University 
of Alabama at Birmingham. He went on to 
earn Doctoral degrees from both the University 
of Montevallo and the University of Alabama. 


While earning his numerous degrees, Dr. 
Hammonds also served Alabama schools in 
various capacities. From 1973–1983 he work 
for Sylacauga High School. In 1983, he began 
working for the Sylacauga City School System, 
where he stayed until 1996. He also 
served as the Superintendent of Sylacauga 
City Schools from 2001–2003. From 1996– 
1997, Dr. Hammonds was the Superintendent 
of Education for Pell City Schools. In 1997, he 
began his work for the Jefferson County 
School System, and in 2004 he was appointed 
Superintendent. 

Because of his faithful service to Alabama’s 
school systems, Dr. Hammonds has been the 
recipient of numerous awards. In 1989, he 
was honored as the Outstanding Graduate 
Student in School Administration at the University 
of Montevallo. In 1991, he received a 
Faculty Recognition Award from the University 
of Alabama. He was also named the Outstanding 
Alumnus in School Administration by 
the University of Montevallo in 1996. In 2007, 
he was recognized as the Outstanding Superintendent 
of the Year by the Alabama Congress 
of Parents and Teachers. Finally, in 
2010, he was appointed to the Board of Directors 
for the The Capstone at the University of 
Alabama. 

Mr. Speaker, we join his family, friends and 
the state of Alabama in this celebration in his 
honor. We will miss Dr. Hammonds’ leadership 
in Alabama, and wish him the very best. 

f 

HONORING UNITED STATES NAVY 
VETERANS 

HON. FREDERICA S. WILSON 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and honor our veterans. 

There are no words that can express the 
gratitude that the American people owe all of 
the men and women who choose to serve the 
United States of America in the armed services. 
We are all humbled by the sacrifice they 
make—knowingly putting themselves in harm’s 
way while also leaving loved ones behind. 
This commitment is the mark of America’s fin


est citizens and those who answer to a higher 
calling. I would like to honor, from the Navy: 

Michelle Luz Trinidad, Stephanie Tillman, 
Andrew Kissoon, Gary Austin, Emmanuel Hernandez, 
Carlo D. Casanova, Kristie Hamm, 
Relles Campos, Raymond Farmer, Peter Calhoun, 
Ruben Gallardo, Percy Fernando Monroe, 
Jeffrey W. Butler, Jr., Marquais Rashann 
Bellamy, Marcus M. White, John C. Carter, Jr., 
Michael C. Thompson, Frederick Alan 
Edwards, Kenyatta Bennett, Jamie Shire, 
Cameron Zbikowski, Sam Owens, Neville 
Bain, Alvine Burke, Freddie Berrios, Janette 
Ramos Chandler, Rafael Trinchet, Henry 
Elam, Willie B. Taylor, Mae Christian, Randolph 
Mobley, John M. Locklier, Charles W. 
Wright, Brian F. Kipp, David Nunez, Ben 
Rape, Stephanie Tillman, James F. Wilson Jr., 
Jackie Bernard Singleton, Richard Victor Powell, 
Mary Lesic, Angus Laney, Rock Daze, 
Franklin Johnson; 

Finally, it is not our tanks, weapons or machinery 
that make the United States Armed 
Forces the best military in the world. It is our 
young men and women who serve professionally 
with honor and distinction. If not for 
these exemplary citizens, freedom and the 
American way of life would not be safe and 
secure. For these sacrifices, we respect and 
should commend their service everyday of the 
year. Congress has designated, November 
11th 2012 as the official day showing our gratitude. 


Please join me in honoring these American 
heroes for their bravery and sacrifice in defense 
of this great nation. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker, I was 
out of town due to a family medical situation 
and was not present for the rollcall vote numbered 
611 on Thursday, November 29, 2012. 
Had I been present, I would have voted in this 
manner: 

Rollcall Vote No. 611—Resolution providing 
for consideration of H.R. 6429, the STEM 
Jobs Act: ‘‘no.’’ 

f 

LT ENVIRONMENTAL, INC. (LTE) 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud LT Environmental, 
Inc. for providing decades of expertise 
through innovative technologies in helping our 
citizens identify and eliminate environmental liabilities. 


Since 1992, LT Environmental or LTE, has 
performed environmental consulting services 
for a diverse range of industries including oil 
and gas, transportation, manufacturing, real 
estate, government, and public and private 
property owners. The high level of devotion 
LTE has shown to our communities serves as 
a prime example of their quality service. 

LTE’s primary goal of rapid site closure allows 
for businesses, many of whom would 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1871 

otherwise had to close their doors, to ensure 
the safety of their employees and the environment 
alike. Sustainable and environmentally-
conscious practices have been a top priority 
for LTE since its foundation. Certainly, without 
companies like LTE, the citizens of Colorado 
would not be able to enjoy the beautiful lands 
we have all come to know and love. 

The list of awards and recognitions received 
by LTE serves as a testament to the ongoing 
successes of LTE. Most notably, the company 
is the recent recipient of the both the 2012 
Top Company award and the 2012 Colorado 
Company to Watch. It has also been recognized 
by Colorado Biz Magazine as one of the 
top ten fastest growing private midsize companies 
in Denver. 

I am very proud to have the LTE headquarters 
located in Arvada, Colorado. LTE 
continues to expand its outreach into all areas 
of Colorado, as well as New Mexico, Wyoming, 
Idaho, Utah and Florida. I can confidently 
say that my colleagues here today will 
soon observe the benefits of having LTE serve 
in their communities. 

Mr. Speaker, the commitment of LT Environmental 
to the people, businesses and lands of 
Colorado serves as an example to those in 
the environment, and throughout all areas of 
commerce. It is with great pride and admiration 
that I am able to briefly speak on the triumphs 
of LT Environmental. I am certain the 
effects of their service will continue to benefit 
our communities for decades to come. 

f 

CONGRATULATING BENJAMIN 
STRALEY 

HON. STEVE STIVERS 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
congratulate Benjamin Straley on being 
named Assistant Organist at the National Cathedral 
in Washington D.C. His dedication to 
sacred music and continued education is truly 
remarkable. Today, Mr. Straley holds his position 
on the incredible music staff at the National 
Cathedral and shares playing responsibilities 
with two other organists. 

Mr. Straley is an Ohio native from the 15th 
Congressional District, and he has proven to 
be one of the top organists in the nation. A recent 
graduate of Yale University, Mr. Straley 
studied sacred music and theological education 
and earned many awards and recognitions. 
Included among his many accomplishments 
is the Baker Prize, a prize awarded to 
incoming organ students at Yale deemed to 
be in the top one or two percent of young organists 
in the country. Mr. Straley was also 
one of the few Americans in the entire history 
of the Haarlem Organ Festival invited to compete 
in its prestigious improvisation contest. 

I would again like to congratulate Benjamin 
Straley on being named Assistant Organist at 
the National Cathedral. The people of Ohio’s 
15th District are dedicated, hardworking people, 
and Mr. Straley’s accomplishments make 
me proud to represent the 15th District in Congress. 


HONORING SOLANO COUNTY 
SUPERVISOR BARBARA KONDYLIS 

HON. GEORGE MILLER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. Mr. 
Speaker, I rise today with my colleague, Congressman 
MIKE THOMPSON, to recognize the 
many accomplishments of Solano County Supervisor 
Barbara Kondylis as she retires after 
twenty years of distinguished service on the 
Solano County Board of Supervisors. 

Barbara as born in Seymour, Indiana, and 
raised in Port Jefferson on Long Island, NY. In 
1969, Barbara moved to Vallejo with her husband 
Gabriel. Barbara completed her education 
in the Bay Area, earning a Bachelor’s 
Degree in Public Administration from the University 
of San Francisco and a Master’s Degree 
in Public Administration from California 
State University, Hayward. 

Barbara won a Vallejo City Council seat in 
1979 and served for nine years. She then 
turned her attention to the Solano County 
Board of Supervisors, winning the seat in 
1992. Barbara was motivated to run because 
she was concerned about government process 
and land use decisions that threatened Solano 
County’s environment, as well as the plight of 
women and children, particularly issues of 
family violence, poverty, and family planning. 

Barbara has accomplished much on behalf 
of Solano County’s children and families. She 
established the Office and Family Violence 
Prevention, the Family Justice Center, and 
Baby Coach, an innovative program to ensure 
good outcomes for high risk mothers and their 
babies. Barbara also successfully promoted 
AB 2010, which passed the California Legislature, 
allowing Solano County to charge Vital 
Records Fees, increasing revenue $80,000 a 
year directed to reduce family violence. She 
helped implement Court Appointed Special 
Advocates who have helped hundreds of children 
going through dependency court. Barbara 
also proposed and initiated ‘‘Smile in Style’’ 
which provided dental screenings and other 
services to thousands of elementary school 
children, allowing many to get emergency dental 
care. 

During her long career, Barbara has served 
on many local and regional boards including 
the Solano County Water Authority, City-County 
Coordinating Committee, San Francisco 
Bay Conservation and Development Commission, 
Mare Island Re-Use Committee, Health 
and Social Services Sub-Committee, Tri City-
County JPA for Agriculture Lands and Open 
Space Preservation, Vallejo Sanitation and 
Flood Control District Board, Vallejo Justice 
Committee, California State Association of 
Counties Board of Directors and Executive 
Committee, Solano County Children and Families 
First Commission, Baby First Solano, Association 
of Bay Area Government Board, 
Delta Protection Commission, and California 
State Association of Counties Condition of 
Children Taskforce. 

Mr. Speaker, we invite this chamber to join 
us in honoring Supervisor Barbara Kondylis for 
her tireless and dedicated service to the people 
of Solano County. We also join her family, 
colleagues, and friends in congratulating her 
on a successful and fulfilling career as an 
elected official and wish her the very best in 
her future endeavors. 

HONORING DENNIS ROTH ON THE 
OCCASION OF HIS RETIREMENT 
FROM THE CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH 
SERVICE 

HON. MICHAEL M. HONDA 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. HONDA. Mr. Speaker, I rise to acknowledge 
the outstanding career of a dedicated 
public servant from the Congressional Research 
Service, Dennis Roth. Mr. Roth is retiring 
in January after 42 years of public service. 

Mr. Roth came to the Congressional Research 
Service in 1976 as a labor economist, 
working in what was the the CRS Economics 
Division. Mr. Roth rose steadily through the 
ranks, becoming one of that division’s first 
section heads. During this time, Mr. Roth 
worked closely with Members of both houses 
of Congress and their staff, providing valuable 
research and analysis for one of the era’s 
landmark pieces of legislation, the Humphries-
Hawkins Full Employment Act. Among its provisions, 
the Act set national goals for full employment 
and mandated that the Federal Reserve 
establish policies that not only controlled 
inflation, but also encouraged long-term economic 
growth and price stability; a mandate 
that guides the Federal Reserve to this day as 
it navigates the troubled economic environment 
in which we currently find ourselves. 

In the 1980’s, while maintaining his workload 
as a labor economist at CRS, Mr. Roth 
became active in the Congressional Research 
Employees Association (CREA). In 1986, Mr. 
Roth ran for President of the Association, but 
lost on his first try. He ran again in 1987, and 
this time he won. The employees at CRS 
demonstrated their confidence in his stewardship 
by returning him to office each year 
since. For 25 years, Mr. Roth has been a tireless 
advocate for the rights, goals, and aspirations 
of all employees at the Congressional 
Research Service. In his spare time, he has 
also been active in the Federal Caucus of the 
International Federation of Professional and 
Technical Engineers (the IFPTE), with which 
CREA is affiliated, and which represents a 
broad segment of the federal workforce. In 
1990, Mr. Roth was elected IFPTE Eastern 
Federal Area Vice President, a position in 
which he served until July of 1997. He was 
also elected as Executive Vice President of 
IFPTE in 1994 and served until July 1997. 

Mr. Roth grew up outside Carlisle, Pennsylvania. 
He graduated from Antioch College in 
1968. He immediately joined the Peace Corps, 
serving in Catanduanes in the Philippine Republic 
where he taught math and worked in 
the areas of economic and agricultural development. 
In fact, Mr. Roth met his wife-to-be 
Daisy while he was a Peace Corps volunteer. 
The two wed and, at the end of his Peace 
Corps tour, they returned to the States, where 
Mr. Roth attended the University of California, 
Berkley and completed the academic requirements 
for a Ph.D. in Economics. Before coming 
to CRS, Mr. Roth also served in the Department 
of Labor, working as an economist 
for the Assistant Secretary for Policy, Evaluation, 
and Research. Mr. and Mrs. Roth have 
two grown children, Jessica and Benjamin. 

As Ranking Member of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, I take 
great pride in all of the outstanding people 


E1872 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 4, 2012 

who choose to work for this august body and 
help us do our jobs better. On behalf of my 
colleagues, I congratulate Mr. Roth on his 
many years of exceptional service to this Congress, 
to the people of the United States, and 
the employees of the Congressional Research 
Service; and as a fellow Returned Peace 
Corps Volunteers, I thank him for his service 
to the people of Catanduanes Island. He epitomizes 
the highest ideals of public service. 
We wish him all the best. 

f 

THE PASSING OF MR. LOWELL O. 
SCHUSTER 

HON. DONNA M. CHRISTENSEN 

OF THE VIRGIN ISLANDS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Speaker, I come 
before the House with a heavy heart to express 
my condolences and pay tribute to Mr. 
Lowell O. Schuster a beloved Virgin Islander, 
loving husband, devoted father, veteran, 
teacher, businessman, community leader and 
very dear friend. 

Lowell Schuster was born in Christiansted, 
St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, on November 
12, 1928 to Mr. Eugene and Mrs. Enid 
Schuster of Christiansted, St. Croix. Mr. 
Schuster attended St. Mary’s Catholic School 
and The Christiansted High School. After 
graduation from high school, he enrolled at 
Howard University in Washington, DC, where 
he received a Bachelor of Science degree in 
Psychology. While attending Howard University 
he entered the Reserve Officers’ Training 
Corps. Following his graduation from Howard 
University, he entered the United States Army 
as an officer with the rank of Second Lieutenant. 


Mr. Schuster had a distinguished military career. 
He was stationed in Germany where he 
bravely served during the Cold War. On May 
9, 1955, he was promoted to First Lieutenant 
of the United States Army and was granted 
Top Security clearance. He became Infantry 
Unit Commander and led the troops on daily 
patrols along the West Germany-East Germany 
border. On November 26, 1958, Mr. 
Schuster was granted an Honorable Discharge. 
In recognition of his military service, 
he received the National Defense Service 
Medal. Mr. Schuster continued his service to 
our Nation by entering the Army Reserves 
where he was promoted to Captain. He also 
became active with the U.S. Virgin Islands National 
Guard. He was honorably discharged 
from the United States Army Reserves on 
February 10, 1969. 

During his tenure in the Reserves, Mr. 
Schuster began his second career as a teacher 
at the Christiansted High School. He again 
distinguished himself as an educator and within 
a short period of time was promoted to Assistant 
Principal and later became Acting Principal. 
After his father became ill, he resigned 
from his position to enter the world of business, 
taking over the operations of Schuster’s 
Services, the largest fully integrated water 
company in the Virgin Islands. He further expanded 
the business to include the bottling of 
water and named it Blue Mountain Water, now 
Blue Mountain Purified Water, LLC. 

These water companies were Mr. Schuster’s 
pride and joy. He looked forward to going to 
the office every morning, working tirelessly, 
and returning home to his family. Blue Mountain 
Purified Water, LLC remains the first bottled 
water company in the Virgin Islands and 
the largest of its kind on St. Croix. Schuster’s 
Services is one of the oldest businesses in the 

U.S. Virgin Islands. 
Of all of his accomplishments, his greatest 
was being a devoted husband and father. Mr. 
Schuster married the love of his life and high 
school sweetheart, Rita M. de Chabert, after 
entering the armed services. They started their 
family while he was stationed in Germany. Mr. 
Schuster and his wife were married for 58 
years and raised 4 children—Gregory, Janine, 
Kenneth and Troy. They are the proud grandparents 
of three grandchildren. 

On behalf of my family, staff and the Congress 
of the United States, I extend our sincere 
condolences and want the family to know 
that our thoughts and prayers are with them 
as we mourn the passing of a great man. We 
cannot replace Lowell but we will attempt to 
improve our lives and live our lives as demonstrated 
by his great example. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. DONNA F. EDWARDS 

OF MARYLAND 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. EDWARDS. Mr. Speaker, I was absent 
from votes in the House last Friday (November 
30th) due to a family funeral and missed 
rollcall votes 612–613. Had I been present, I 
would have voted ‘‘yes’’ on rollcall vote 612 
(motion to recommit H.R. 6429, the STEM 
Jobs Act) and ‘‘no’’ on rollcall vote 613 (final 
passage of H.R. 6429). 

f 

HONORING UNITED STATES ARMY 
VETERANS 

HON. FREDERICA S. WILSON 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and honor our veterans. 

There are no words that can express the 
gratitude that the American people owe all of 
the men and who choose to serve the United 
States of America in the armed services. We 
are all humbled by the sacrifice they make— 
knowingly putting themselves in harm’s way 
while also leaving loved ones behind. This 
commitment is the mark of America’s finest 
citizens and those who answer to a higher 
calling. I would like to recognize, from the 
Army: 

Mona Figueroa, Julie Chery, Amaury 
Acosta, Delawrence Blue, Pedro David Lanza, 
Jimmy Moises Palma, Edwin Garcia Llauger, 
Dejongh Oscar, Evette Linda Phillips, Virgil A. 
Lacey, Norman Cooper, William Berrios, 
James Hosley, Charles Henry Green, Daniel 
Shannon, Franklin D. Mack, Alfred E. Glass, 
Cleotha Brown, Thomas George Darden, 

Ishmnel Cash Rolle, Jr., John Steele, Bobby 
White, Andrew D. Reid, Neville Solomon 
Shorter, Richard A. Love, Jr., Rufus Lester, 
Hector Ramirez, Paul Murray, Alexander Flowers, 
Eulas C. Mitchell, Jr, Jeffrey Smith, 
Reinnier Ray Santos, Sunil Mittoo, Trenton A. 
Brewton, Travis D. Small, Bernard Carr, Michael 
D. Beebe, George Hill, Robert Foster, 
Wilfred Bedeau, Derrill Clayton White, Hector 

E. Valle Acosta, Alex Esteban White, Tan S. 
Eward, Jeffrey Allen Cooper, Robert Brown, 
Mose McClain, Alejandro Suarez, James 
Henry Sconiers, Murray Lanard, Milto N. 
Smith, Tomas M. Rodriguez, Rutheven Williams, 
Roscoe Shannon, James L. Struchins, 
Tommy Fortner, Jr, Elizabeth Fequiere, Andrew 
Nesbitt, Paul M. Wellons, Samuel C. 
Rhoden, Cedric Halyard, Alvin Chambers, 
Shirlene Ann Lassiter, Jerome Williams, Hugh 
H. Hood, Jared M. Dawson, Charles F. Johnson, 
Jr., John A. Cooper, Israel Santiago, 
Deoraj Ramsaran, Willie L. Thompson, 
Michelle R. Forbes-Brown, Benjamin B. 
Cowins, Sr., Rufus Curry, Jr., Michel Pellerin, 
Craig Coney, Abe Stein, Phillip A. Johnson, 
Claude Evans Adside, Jr., Debra Reed, 
George A. Stewart, John Garrison, Ronald 
Maycok, Charles Markx, Walter Hardemon, 
Corey Cornell Butler, Willie Brinson, Willie 
Thomas, Edwin Bain, Herman Williams, Albert 
Sturrip, Dan Brand, Jerry Williams, Esme 
Bain, James C. Smith, Raymond Burke, John 
Donald Pace, Jr., Derrick Andrea Porter, Patricia 
Ann Barber, James E. Johnson, Diana M. 
Gilliam, Carla Horne, Beatrice E. McIver, Winifred 
D. Browne, Evette Linda Phillips, Charlie 
Reid, John Williams, Simuel Williams Jr, Maurice 
Ratliff, Michael Johnson, Santwan Williams, 
Hector Rivera, Nathan Johnson, Jose 
Morales, Alphonso Giles, Beverly Bethel, John 
Riley, Karen Boyd, Edgar Childs, Virgil Lacey, 
Frank Rawlerson, Mariano Cruz, John Zeigler, 
Melissa Billingsley, Evette Phillips, George 
Stanley, Namon J. Gilbert Jr. Glen R. George, 
Allyn McKinney, Charles Green, Roger Hibard, 
Seitu Muhammad Kokavi, Shirl Cornwall, Richard 
Mason, Peter James Kendrick, Charles 
Mack, Ronald Maycok, John Garrison, Norman 
Kight, Henry Picket, Willie Thang, April 
Barnes, Thaddeus Pinkney, John Wallace, 
Walter Hodge, Luther Benjamin Smith, 
Charmaine Rolle, Allison Bullard, Timothy 
Forbes Sr., Sam Lattimore, Edilberto Martinez, 
Phillip Moncur, Vernette Berry Richardson, 
Wilfred Bedeau, Wesly Frazier, Darrell Morgan, 
Roland James, Henry Elam, Alfred Gordon, 
Peter James Kendrick, Louis Tyler, Karen 
A. Boyd, Frederick Edwards, Johnnie Nesmith; 
Finally, it is not our tanks, weapons or machinery 
that make the United States Armed 
Forces the best military in the world. It is our 
young men and women who serve professionally 
with honor and distinction. If not for 
these exemplary citizens, freedom and the 
American way of life would not be safe and 
secure. For these sacrifices, we respect and 
should commend their service everyday of the 
year. Congress has designated, November 
11th 2012 as the official day showing our gratitude. 


Please join me in honoring these American 
heroes for their bravery and sacrifice in defense 
of this great nation. 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1873 

CONGRATULATING THE REPUBLIC 

OF CYPRUS ON ITS PRESIDENCY 

OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (EU) 

HON. SHELLEY BERKLEY 

OF NEVADA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. BERKLEY. Mr. Speaker, today I would 
like to honor the Republic of Cyprus as its first 
six-month rotation of the European Union 
Presidency comes to a close. The EU Presidency 
is a significant event in the history of 
this nation with which the United States has 
such a close relationship. 

This small, but vigorous country has overseen 
a number of historic events during its 
tenure in the Presidency. Most notably, the EU 
approved a new round of sanctions against 
Iran. These sanctions are the toughest measures 
imposed by the EU to date and target 
Iran’s nuclear and ballistic missile program. 
The sanctions ban financial transactions, prohibit 
the export to Iran of materials that could 
be used for its nuclear and ballistic program, 
ban the importation of natural gas from Iran, 
and impose an asset freeze and travel ban on 
34 additional Iranian entities reportedly providing 
financial support to the Iranian government. 
I would like to congratulate the Republic 
of Cyprus for overseeing the enactment of 
these sanctions as they will work in tandem 
with the strong US sanctions imposed against 
Iran. This is a critically important step that will 
help to keep the rulers of Iran from fulfilling 
their quest for nuclear weapons. Furthermore, 
it will help to ensure the security of our strongest 
ally in the region, Israel, by maintaining regional 
stability. Again, I extend my sincere 
congratulations to the Republic of Cyprus on a 
successful EU Presidency. 

f 

DR. FREDERICK L. GROVER, MD 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud Dr. Frederick 
Grover for his service to our community. 

After serving in the Navy, Dr. Grover diligently 
worked to ensure the future of 
cardiothoracic medicine. Throughout his career, 
Dr. Grover trained and mentored over 39 
thoracic surgery residents. As the Chair of the 
Department of Surgery at the University Colorado 
School of Medicine, Dr. Grover preserved 
the success of our medical communities for 
generations to come. Dr. Grover’s selfless devotion 
to his students provided an exemplary 
standard of service. 

Dr. Grover’s continual efforts in aiding the 
men and women whom served our nation are 
undoubtedly worth the upmost gratitude. For 
12 years, Dr. Grover dedicated himself as the 
Chief of Surgical Services at the Department 
of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Denver. 
During this time, Dr. Grover pioneered the VA 
Cardiac Surgery Database as the Medical Director 
of the Continuous Improvement. It is his 
daily endeavors, as well as promotion of future 
medicines, that exemplify the level of service 
Dr. Grover continues to emulate. 

Dr. Grover distinguishes himself as a caring 
member of the community by striving to aid 

numerous professional organizations. Whether 
it is his advocacy through the formation of 
healthcare policy at the national level, or serving 
as President of the Society of Thoracic 
Surgeons, Dr. Grover is truly a remarkable 
member of our community. 

Dr. Grover’s commitment to enriching the 
community serves as a great example to 
those in medicine, and throughout all disciplines. 
It is with great pride and admiration 
that I am able to briefly speak on the successes 
of Dr. Frederick Grover. I am certain 
the effects of his service will continue to benefit 
our communities in Colorado for decades 
to come. 

f 

RECOGNIZING CENTRAL SERVICE 
TECHNICIANS 

HON. BILLY LONG 

OF MISSOURI 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. LONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
Central Service Technicians. 

Central Service Technicians are responsible 
for processing surgical instruments, supplies 
and equipment, and serve in settings ranging 
from hospitals to ambulatory surgical centers 
throt ghout the country. 

These individuals provide support to patient 
care services and are tasked with ensuring 
supplies needed for patient care are decontaminated, 
cleaned, assembled, and sterilized. 

The Central Sterile Supply Department of a 
health care facility is the heart of all activity 
surrounding instruments, supplies and equipment 
required for operating rooms, Endoscopy 
suites, Intensive Care Units, birth centers and 
other patient care areas. 

Central Service Technicians play an important 
role in patient care arenas, and are responsible 
for first-line processes to prevent 
patient infections. 

Mr. Speaker, Central Service Technicians 
are instrumental to patient safety and I am 
honored to recognize their vital role in the 
health care arena. 

f 

IN HONOR OF THOMAS MCKENNON 
‘‘KEN’’ SHEA 

HON. MIKE ROSS 

OF ARKANSAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. ROSS of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor the life of Thomas McKennon 
‘‘Ken’’ Shea, a life-long resident of Dumas, Arkansas, 
who passed away at the age of 58 on 
November 29, 2012. Ken was born on August 
9, 1954 in Dumas, Arkansas and I would like 
to recognize his life and achievements. 

Raised in Dumas, Arkansas, Ken attended 
Dumas High School and earned a bachelor’s 
degree from Louisiana State University, where 
he was a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. 
Ken returned to Dumas after graduating from 
LSU to become associated with his father at 
McKennon Implement Co. Inc, the family’s 
John Deere farm equipment dealership, and 
served as president and sales manager there 
while helping to oversee his family’s farming 
interests. Following the sale of the McKennon 

dealerships Arkansas Ag in 2011, he was Location 
Manager for Arkansas Ag in McGehee. 
He was a past president of the Southeast 
Equipment Dealers Association. 

Ken led an exemplary life and was extremely 
active in many different capacities. He 
was past president of the Dumas Chamber of 
Commerce, Dumas Lions Club, and Walnut 
Lake Country Club Boar. He served as chairman 
of the Dumas Airport Commission, on the 
Chicot-Desha Metropolitan Port Authority (Yellow 
Bend Port) and on the Dumas School 
Board. He represented the Dumas area on the 
Southeast Arkansas Levee District Board and 
had been a member of the AgHeritage Farm 
Credit Services Board of Directors since 1993. 
Ken was chosen as the Ding Dong Daddy of 
Dumas for 1996 and was named Dumas Lions 
Club Man of the Year in 1993, the same year 
his wife Debbie was honored as Woman of 
the Year at the annual Dumas Chamber of 
Commerce banquet. 

Ken was also very active at the First United 
Methodist Church where he served as past 
chairman of the Administrative Board, a member 
of the governing council, and a Sunday 
School teacher. 

Leading by example through a lifetime of 
dedication, community service, and commitment 
to agriculture, Ken has left an undeniable 
mark on the Desha County community. 
Dumas is a better place, more cohesive community 
because of Ken Shea and he will be 
deeply missed. My heartfelt condolences are 
with his wife of 35 years, Debbie; his son, the 
Rev. Thomas McKennon Shea Jr. and wife 
Anna Collins Shea; his daughter, Sarah Helen 
Shea Studebaker and husband Peyton Mills 
Studebaker; his brother, William Warrick ‘‘Bill’’ 
Shea; his sister, Anne Shea Carroll; and his 
two grandchildren, Jackson Reade Studebaker 
and Thomas McKennon ‘‘Mac’’ Shea, III. 
While Ken may no longer be with us, his spirit 
will live on forever in the lives he touched. 

f 

OUR UNCONSCIONABLE NATIONAL 
DEBT 

HON. MIKE COFFMAN 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. COFFMAN of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, 
on January 20, 2009, the day President 
Obama took office, the national debt was 
$10,626,877,048,913.08. 

Today, it is $16,338,092,943,716.61. We’ve 
added $5,711,215,894,803.53 to our debt in 
nearly 4 years. This is $5 trillion in debt our 
nation, our economy, and our children could 
have avoided with a balanced budget amendment. 


f 

TRIBUTE TO TOM VICINI 

HON. HAROLD ROGERS 

OF KENTUCKY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to pay tribute to my good friend, 
Tom Vicini, for his tremendous leadership and 
tireless dedication to inspire young people in 
southern and eastern Kentucky live a drug-
free life. 


E1874 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 4, 2012 

In recent years, Tom has witnessed the 
devastating effects of the prescription drug 
epidemic in his hometown of Lynch, Kentucky 
and across our rural region. Rather than quietly 
standing by, Tom has committed his life to 
making a difference both as a selfless community 
leader and a compassionate little league 
coach. 

After earning a Bachelor’s degree in Business 
Administration from the University of 
Kentucky, Tom returned to Lynch where he 
worked in the private sector and served as 
Mayor for 13 years without taking a salary, 
due to tight budgets. He is now a Coalition 
Coordinator for Operation UNITE, a non-profit 
organization designed to combat substance 
abuse through law enforcement, treatment and 
education, serving the Fifth Congressional District 
of Kentucky. Through his work with 
UNITE, Tom helps coordinate community anti-
drug events and reaches out to families and 
individuals grappling with addiction on a daily 
basis. 

For the last 34 years, Tom has spent his 
evenings and weekends coaching little league 
baseball, a lifelong passion. Tom is more than 
a successful coach, however. He is also an 
excellent mentor and role model, encouraging 
players to stay off drugs, make healthy life 
choices, and never give up. Tom makes sure 
that every child gets to play, regardless of talent. 
All he asks for in return is that they give 
their best effort on the field. Additionally, Tom 
organizes free baseball camps for youth and 
assists with various drug-free programs, including 
Shoot Hoops Not Drugs and Hooked 
on Fishing—Not on Drugs. In honor of his 
contributions to the sport of baseball, Tom received 
the 2012 Major League Baseball Commissioner’s 
Play Healthy Award through the 
Partnership at DrugFree.org in conjunction 
with MLB Charities. 

Tom’s talents far exceed his boundaries, yet 
he is determined to help transform his small 
community and our rural region of southern 
and eastern Kentucky. As some of those 
same little league players have grown up, 
Tom has encountered a few in handcuffs during 
drug roundups, but his immediate response 
is to kneel down beside them in prayer, 
offering words of encouragement. It is his 
courage of conviction and steadfast resolve to 
help those in need that drive his unwavering 
kindred spirit. His message of hope and perseverance 
in the face of adversity is manifested 
every day through his tireless effort to 
encourage the youth of his community to 
reach for a brighter future. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me 
in honoring Tom Vicini for receiving the MLB 
Commissioner’s Play Healthy Award, and for 
his unwavering commitment to the youth of 
Harlan County. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. WILLIAM L. OWENS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. OWENS. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoidably 
absent due to a family emergency on November 
29th and November 30th, 2012. As a 
result, I missed rollcall votes 611, 612, and 
613 related to H.R. 6429, the STEM Job Act 
of 2012. Had I been present, I would have 

voted ‘‘no’’ on rollcall vote 611, ‘‘yes’’ on roll 
call vote 612, and ‘‘no’’ on roll call vote 613. 

f 

THE IMPENDING FISCAL CLIFF 
NEGOTIATIONS AND THE EXTENSION 
OF TAX CUTS FOR THE 
MIDDLE CLASS 

HON. AL GREEN 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, as 
Congress and the President continue to move 
toward a compromise addressing the ‘‘Fiscal 
Cliff,’’ I support a balanced approach that creates 
jobs and supports long-term economic 
growth. A key component of sustained economic 
growth is the extension of the current 
tax rates for middle class Americans. Furthermore, 
I support an approach that boosts the 
confidence of small business owners and provides 
them with the certitude they need to 
meet the demands of a recovering economy. 
Congress must support an approach that 
avoids the harmful sequestration spending 
cuts that may affect nearly every sector of our 
economy and threaten our economic recovery. 
It is my hope that my colleagues and I can act 
as partners in promoting economic fairness 
that will steer America toward a brighter future. 


f 

JESSICA FORD 

HON. TED POE 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, Jessica 
Ford had big dreams of becoming a doctor 
when she was growing up. Like many young 
girls, Jessica was just trying to find her way in 
life when she ran away from home. After she 
ran away, she met a man who made her feel 
safe. He claimed to have all the answers to 
her problems. She fell in love. Unfortunately, 
Jessica didn’t realize she was falling in love 
with a predator. 

Unbeknownst to Jessica, her new love identified 
her as prey and lured her in to his control 
by taking advantage of her vulnerability. 
Before she knew what was happening, she 
was his slave—threatened, raped and force 
into prostitution. Her predator sold her for sex 
in her city and trafficked her in other places. 
This nightmare—living in slavery—lasted for 
thirteen years. 

Jessica lived in constant fear of the men 
who owned her during those years. Not only 
did they steal her childhood, they stole her 
identity. She was an object to them, sold on 
an underground market just like any other 
commodity in demand. The sick reality of this 
market is best explained by Assistant U.S. Attorney 
Sherri Zack: ‘‘With selling a girl there’s 
a huge advantage. After you sell a kilo of cocaine, 
you have to then buy another kilo of cocaine, 
but you can sell a girl or boy over and 
over again. It’s an incredible renewable resource.’’ 
Jessica’s nightmare didn’t start in a 
third world country; it started right here in 
Houston, Texas. 

Human trafficking is the second largest organized 
crime business in he world, gener


ating $32 billion a year. This dastardly deed 
occurs all over the world, but most people 
don’t know that it occurs right here in the 
United States. Unfortunately, Texas has become 
a hub for human trafficking—in 2007 
nearly 1/3 of the calls to the National Human 
Trafficking Hotline came from our state. The 
many interstates, airports and ports in Houston 
make our city convenient for traffickers. 
Trafficking rings operate in places that you 
see along the streets in our communities, like 
some massage parlors where women are sold 
for sex. This modern day slave trade occurs 
right in our own backyard. It seems like a Hollywood 
movie, but this is reality. 

There are many faces of trafficking victims, 
but typically the victims are women—both 
adult and child. In less frequent instances, the 
victims are men. Some are people who are 
smuggled here from another country believing 
they will have a job. Others are vulnerable 
American children. In many cases, these victims 
are forced into sex and/or labor trafficking 
to repay a debt. Sadly, too many of them are 
treated as criminals and not what they really 
are—victims of crime. 

When I came to Congress, I founded the bipartisan 
Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. 
The Caucus works to bring attention to human 
trafficking. Legislatively, the Trafficking Victims 
Protection Act has brought about considerable 
changes in the way that the federal government 
responds to trafficking and coordination 
worldwide. We are working towards reauthorizing 
this important bill. 

On the state and local levels, Texas has 
taken significant steps forward to prevent trafficking, 
prosecute traffickers, and help victims. 
In Harris County, Precinct 4 Constable Ron 
Hickman and County Attorney Vince Ryan 
have made cracking down on human trafficking 
a top priority. They’re working hard to 
close illegitimate businesses and arrest and 
prosecute those exploiting the vulnerable. The 
biggest challenge we face to battling this 
crime is the endless demand by customers. 

Human Trafficking is modern day slavery. 
It’s a human rights issue. Bringing awareness 
to the problem is the first step. We must continue 
to tell stories like Jessica’s. Collaboration 
between federal, state and local governments 
is also key. Together, we can strengthen penalties 
for traffickers and buyers. And most importantly, 
we can’t forget that those who have 
been trafficked are the victims. We must treat 
them like victims. They need assistance as 
they recover from servitude and rebuild their 
lives. Together we can eradicate the scourge 
of human trafficking. And that’s just the way it 
is. 

f 

IN HONOR OF MARIO GUILIO 
MUSCIANO, SR. 

HON. ROBERT E. ANDREWS 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mr. ANDREWS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor the beloved Mario Guilio Musciano, Sr. 
of Somerdale, New Jersey who passed away 
on Friday, November 23rd, 2012. 

Born and raised in Camden, Mr. Musciano’s 
life has been an inspiration to the citizens of 
South Jersey. As a United States Army veteran, 
he served with distinction during World 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1875 

War II, rising to the rank of sergeant as he ability. While HOVENSA has agreed to supply Rollcall vote No. 613—Final Passage—H.R. 
fought to protect the freedoms that we all, as fuel to the end of 2012, the Virgin Islands is 6429, the STEM Jobs Act: ‘‘No.’’ 
Americans, cherish. He survived the Decem-in need of emergency relief in order to staber 
7th attack on Pearl Harbor and has, for bilize the cost of water and electricity to its f 

over a decade, been an honored speaker at 
the annual Pearl Harbor Remembrance Ceremony 
held aboard the USS New Jersey. 

A self-employed entrepreneur, Mr. Musciano 
owned and retired from the Sterling Tile Company 
of Somerdale, NJ. He was counted a 
member of both the Lion’s Club and the Pearl 
Harbor Survivors’ Club, and was a devoted 
husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather, 
and brother. He will be sorely missed. 

Mr. Speaker, Mario Guilio Musciano was a 
great man who exemplified the American spirit. 
I join the people of Somerdale and all of 
South Jersey in honoring the life of this exceptional 
man. 

f 

U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS NEED FOR 
EMERGENCY ENERGY RELIEF 
HON. DONNA M. CHRISTENSEN 

OF THE VIRGIN ISLANDS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Mrs. CHRISTENSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to introduce the Virgin Islands Energy 
Crisis Relief Act of 2012. In January of this 
year, the HOVENSA Oil Refinery located on 
St. Croix in my Congressional district the U.S. 
Virgin Islands, announced that it would cease 
refinery operations because of the global economic 
slowdown, the addition of new refining 
capacity in emerging markets and the current 
low domestic price of natural gas. This announcement 
was an economic gut blow to the 

U.S. Virgin Islands not only because of its 
overall impact; a potential $580 million reduction 
in direct gross economic output and $92 
million in overall government tax revenues beginning 
in FY 2012; and the direct termination 
of 2,471 employees and subcontractors which 
represents 12% of total employment and 27% 
of average gross pay of the private sector on 
St. Croix; but because of the crippling threat to 
energy affordability which inhibits economic 
growth and sustainability. 
The HOVENSA refinery, which was one of 
the ten largest in the world, provided four percent 
of its refinery products in the form of gasoline, 
diesel, jet and propane fuel to the U.S. 
Virgin Islands. The HOVENSA refinery provided 
at least 90% of energy for the Virgin Islands 
Water and Power Authority, which received 
fuel to power the utility at a reduced 
cost based on the average cost of crude delivered 
to the refinery or $2.00 less than the 
New York harbor landed fuel of the same 
type. The refinery also supplied most of the 
territory’s gasoline service stations also at a 
reduced cost. According to VIWAPA, 76% of 
its costs are for the purchase of fuel. Even so, 
Virgin Islands residents and businesses pay 
electric power rates in the range of 44 to 48 
cents per kilowatt hour, among the highest energy 
costs in the nation. 

The greatest threat to the Virgin Islands 
economy and way of life posed by the closing 
of the HOVENSA refinery is energy afford-

business and residential consumers in the 
near future. In his 2012 State of the Territory 
address, Governor John deJongh said: ‘‘Without 
reliable electricity and water there will be 
no new businesses. Without reliable electricity 
and water, we will have no economic development, 
fewer jobs and lower revenues, all contributing 
to a downward spiral.’’ 

In light of the potential for economic catastrophe 
that currently exists, we are exploring 
an emergency appropriation for the purpose of 
stabilizing the economy of the Virgin Islands 
for a period of time, by subsidizing the cost of 
fuel, which the utility passes on to the consumer, 
both residential and business, through 
a funding mechanism called the Levelized Energy 
Adjustment Clause, known locally as the 
LEAC. 

In recent months, the Government of the 
Virgin Islands and the utility, the Virgin Islands 
Water and Power Authority, have moved to 
implement a series of initiatives aimed at stabilizing 
the energy situation in the territory. 
They have published an Energy Action Plan 
that lists the following as its strategy to meeting 
the islands needs for energy. It includes: 

Implementing measures to enhance production 
efficiency at existing power generation facilities; 


Converting base load power production from 
fuel oil to liquefied natural gas or liquefied petroleum 
gas; 

Developing grid interconnection between the 
Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico; 

Maximizing the development of solar and 
wind resources; 

Pursuing biomass energy and ocean thermal 
energy as potential diversification of base 
load energy. 

While noteworthy, all of these goals are long 
term solutions that do not address the impact 
to homes, businesses and the entire Virgin Islands 
economy in the short term, hence the 
request for emergency relief. The Virgin Islands 
Energy Crisis Relief Act is aimed at lowering 
the cost of fuel to utility and therefore to 
the consumer; facilitating the conversion of the 
existing plant to utilize liquefied natural or liquefied 
petroleum gas; and increasing the number 
of residents who qualify for relief through 
the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act 
(LIHEAP). 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Speaker, I was 
out of town due to a family medical situation 
and was not present for the rollcall votes numbered 
612 and 613 on Friday, November 30, 
2012. Had I been present, I would have voted 
in this manner: 

Rollcall vote No. 612—Motion to Recommit 
with Instructions—H.R. 6429, the STEM Jobs 
Act: ‘‘Yes.’’ 

HONORING UNITED STATES 
MARINE CORPS VETERANS 

HON. FREDERICA S. WILSON 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Ms. WILSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and honor our veterans. 

There are no words that can express the 
gratitude that the American people owe all of 
the men and women who choose to serve the 
United States of America in the armed services. 
We are all humbled by the sacrifice they 
make—knowingly putting themselves in harm’s 
way while also leaving loved ones behind. 
This commitment is the mark of America’s finest 
citizens and those who answer to a higher 
calling. Allow me to honor, from the United 
States Marine Corps: 

Edgar Harris, Tony Colmenares, Willie 
James Ferguson, Leroy McKenzie, Clifford 
Farrell, Jr., Peter Almeida, Jr., Joyuanki 
Victore, Christian Zegarra, Felix Garcia, Oscar 
Sola Vega, Phil Davis, Eddy J. Fonseca, 
Charles V. Manno, Edward Haynes, Larry Gilbert 
Jones, Ewin Vasco, Alexander Cruz, Philip 
Henry, Brent W. Quinones, Candyce 
Haynes, Christina Watson, Tracy Noel, Jamal 
Jenkins, Bentley Broussard, Jonathan M. 
Fuller, Javier A. Herbello, Kelvin J. Cox Jr., 
Kenneth del Mazo, Scott Schmidt, Richard Miller, 
Shane Suzuki, Jose ‘‘Pepe’’ Diaz, Rudolph 
Felton, Roberto Morejon, Widmayer Boucard, 
David Scott, Artice Shine, Jeffrey Paris, Jose 
Morla, Philip White, Darrell Morgan, Wesley 
Frazier, Johnnie Nesmith, Gary Gene 
Lipsomb, II, Joseph L. Cook, Jose Rojas, 
Manuel V. Ferrer, Walnex Philor, Leon Parker, 
Lonnie Lawrence, Gary Bryant, William Dozier, 
Peter Almeida, Jr., Patrick L. Purdy, William 
Draper, Milton Qaadir, Jim Gates Jr., Ed 
Moore, James Moore, William Parros, John L. 
Raineri, Jacob B. Butz, Luis Alvarez, Justin 
Cook, Luis Rivera, Ivens R. RestoSalgado, 
Eddy J. Fonseca Jr., Jonathan A. Salcedo, 
Ismael R. Lopez, Matthew D. Younger, Jaime 

M. Varillas, Carlos Santiago, Matthew J. 
Drumsta, John R. Hirnyk, Steven S. 
Vonsoosten, Eliezer Olea; 
Finally, it is not our tanks, weapons or machinery 
that make the United States Armed 
Forces the best military in the world. It is our 
young men and women who serve professionally 
with honor and distinction. If not for 
these exemplary citizens, freedom and the 
American way of life would not be safe arid 
secure. For these sacrifices, we respect and 
should commend their service everyday of the 
year. Congress has designated, November 
11th 2012 as the official day showing our gratitude. 


Please join me in honoring these American 
heroes for their bravery and sacrifice in defense 
of this great nation. 


Tuesday, December 4, 2012 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 
Senate passed National Defense Authorization bills. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S7363–S7404 

Measures Introduced: Six bills and one resolution 
were introduced, as follows: S. 3651–3656, and S. 
Res. 608. Pages S7401–02 

Measures Passed: 

National Defense Authorization Act: By a unanimous 
vote of 98 yeas (Vote No. 221), Senate passed 

S. 3254, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2013 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, after 
taking action on the following amendments proposed 
thereto: Pages S7381–92 
Adopted: 

Levin (for Kyl/Udall (NM)) Modified Amendment 
No. 2927, to establish a congressional advisory panel 
on revising the governance structure of the National 
Nuclear Security Administration to permit it to operate 
more effectively and independently of the Department 
of Energy. Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Akaka) Amendment No. 3019, to 
amend the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 with respect 
to the State Trade and Export Promotion 
Grant Program. Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Toomey) Amendment No. 3062, to require 
the Government Accountability Office to include 
in its annual report to Congress a list of the 
most common grounds for sustaining protests relating 
to bids for contracts. Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Brown (OH)) Modified Amendment 
No. 3113, to extend treatment of base closure areas 
as HUBZones for purposes of the Small Business 
Act. Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Rubio/Nelson (FL)) Modified Amendment 
No. 3175, to limit the availability of funds for 
retirement or inactivation of Ticonderoga class cruisers 
or dock landing ships. Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Carper) Amendment No. 3241, to repeal 
or modify certain mandates of the Government 
Accountability Office. Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Carper) Amendment No. 3242, to intensify 
efforts to identify, prevent, and recover payment 
error, waste, fraud, and abuse within Federal 
spending. Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Thune) Modified Amendment No. 
3277, to express the sense of Congress regarding the 
reallocation of government spectrum. Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Moran/Ayotte) Modified Amendment 
No. 3285, in the nature of a substitute. 

Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Bennet) Modified Amendment No. 
3226, to make enhancements to the Troops-to-
Teachers program. Pages S7383–85 

Levin (for Hatch) Modified Amendment No. 
3117, to provide that the rating chain for a system 
program manager may include any senior official located 
at an Air Logistics Complex where the system 
program manager is based. Pages S7383–85 

By 92 yeas to 6 nays (Vote No. 220), McCain 
Modified Amendment No. 3262, to require a report 
on military activities to deny or significantly degrade 
the use of air power against civilian and opposition 
groups in Syria. Pages S7386–89 

Kyl Modified Amendment No. 3123, to require 
briefings on dialogue between the United States and 
the Russian Federation on nuclear arms, missile defense, 
and long-range conventional strike systems. 

Pages S7381, S7389 

National Defense Authorization: Committee on 
Armed Services was discharged from further consideration 
of H.R. 4310, to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2013 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to 
prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and the bill was then passed, after striking all 
after the enacting clause and inserting in lieu thereof 
the text of S. 3254, as amended. Page S7392 

D998 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D999 

Senate insisted on its amendment, requested a 
conference with the House on the disagreeing votes 
of the two Houses; and the Chair was authorized to 
appoint the following conferees on the part of the 
Senate: Senators Levin, Lieberman, Reed, Akaka, 
Nelson (NE), Webb, McCaskill, Udall (CO), Hagan, 
Begich, Manchin, Shaheen, Gillibrand, Blumenthal, 
McCain, Inhofe, Sessions, Chambliss, Wicker, Brown 
(MA), Portman, Ayotte, Collins, Graham, Cornyn, 
and Vitter. Page S7392 

Animal Fighting Spectator Prohibition Act: 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry 
was discharged from further consideration of S. 
1947, to prohibit attendance of an animal fighting 
venture, and the bill was then passed, after agreeing 
to the following amendment proposed thereto: 

Pages S7393–97 

Blumenthal Amendment No. 3309, to improve 
the bill. Page S7393 

International parental child abduction: Senate 
agreed to S. Res. 543, to express the sense of the 
Senate on international parental child abduction, 
after agreeing to the committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute. Pages S7403–04 

Measures Considered: 

Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal 
Act—Agreement: Senate began consideration of the 
motion to proceed to consideration of H.R. 6156, to 
authorize the extension of nondiscriminatory treatment 
(normal trade relations treatment) to products 
of the Russian Federation and Moldova and to require 
reports on the compliance of the Russian Federation 
with its obligations as a member of the 
World Trade Organization. Pages S7392–93 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
that at approximately 1:30 p.m., on Wednesday, 
December 5, 2012, Senate begin consideration 
of the bill. Page S7404 

Morning Business—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent-time agreement was reached providing that 
at approximately 9:30 a.m., on Wednesday, December 
5, 2012, Senate be in a period of morning business 
for up to 4 hours with Senators permitted to 
speak therein for up to 10 minutes each except 
where noted below and the time be divided as follows: 
Majority controlling the first 30 minutes; Republicans 
controlling the next 30 minutes; Senator 
Grassley controlling the next 45 minutes; Majority 
controlling the next 45 minutes; Republicans controlling 
the next 45 minutes; and the Majority controlling 
the following 45 minutes; and that following 
morning business, Senate begin consideration 
of H.R. 6156, Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik 
Repeal Act. Page S7404 

Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities 
Treaty: By 61 yeas to 38 nays (Vote No. 
219), two-thirds of the Senators present and not having 
voted in the affirmative, the resolution of ratification 
to the Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities, adopted by the United Nations 
General Assembly on December 13, 2006, and 
signed by the United States of America on June 30, 
2009 (the ‘‘Convention’’) (Treaty Doc. 112–7) was 
not agreed to and the Senate does not advise and 
consent to the ratification of the treaty. 

Pages S7365–79 

Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S7400 

Executive Communications: Pages S7400–01 

Additional Cosponsors: Page S7402 

Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions: 

Pages S7402–03 

Additional Statements: Pages S7399–S7400 

Amendments Submitted: Page S7403 

Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S7403 

Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today. 
(Total—221) Pages S7379, S7389, S7392 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 10:00 a.m. and 
adjourned at 6:30 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Wednesday, 
December 5, 2012. (For Senate’s program, see 
the remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s 
Record on page S7404.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

NOMINATIONS 

Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: 

Committee concluded a hearing to examine the 
nominations of Polly Ellen Trottenberg, of Maryland, 
to be Under Secretary of Transportation for 
Policy, who was introduced by Senators Boxer and 
Schumer, Mark Doms, of Maryland, to be Under 
Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, Mignon 

L. Clyburn, of South Carolina, to be a Member of 
the Federal Communications Commission, and Joshua 
D. Wright, of Virginia, to be a Federal Trade 
Commissioner, after the nominees testified and answered 
questions in their own behalf. 
INTELLIGENCE 

Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed 
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony 
from officials of the intelligence community. 

Committee recessed subject to the call. 


D1000 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 4, 2012 

House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 5 public 
bills, H.R. 6628–6632; and 2 resolutions, H. Con. 
Res. 143 and H. Res. 924, were introduced. 

Page H6622 

Additional Cosponsors: Page H6623 

Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today. 
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he 
appointed Representative Harper to act as Speaker 
pro tempore for today. Page H6589 

Recess: The House recessed at 10:43 a.m. and reconvened 
at 12 noon. Page H6594 

Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the guest chaplain, 
Reverend Dr. Glen Bohannon, College Acres 
Baptist Church, Wilmington, North Carolina. 

Page H6594 

Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval 
of the Journal by a yea-and-nay vote of 290 yeas to 
106 nays with 2 answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 615. 

Pages H6594, H6607–08 

Private Calendar: On the call of the Private calendar, 
the House passed H.R. 1857, for the relief of 
Bartosz Kumor; H.R. 824, for the relief of Daniel 
Wachira; H.R. 823, for the relief of Maria Carmen 
Castro Ramirez and J. Refugio Carreno Rojas; H.R. 
794, for the relief of Allan Bolor Kelley; H.R. 357, 
for the relief of Corina de Chalup Turcinovic; and 

H.R. 316, for the relief of Esther Karinge. Additionally, 
the House passed over without prejudice S. 
285, for the relief of Sopuruchi Chukwueke. 
Pages H6597–99 

Suspension: The House agreed to suspend the rules 
and pass the following measure: 

American Energy Manufacturing Technical Corrections 
Act: H.R. 6582, amended, to allow for innovations 
and alternative technologies that meet or 
exceed desired energy efficiency goals, and to make 
technical corrections to existing Federal energy efficiency 
laws to allow American manufacturers to remain 
competitive, by a 2/3 yea-and-nay vote of 398 
yeas to 2 nays with 1 answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 
614. Pages H6599–H6606, H6607 

Recess: The House recessed at 1:04 p.m. and reconvened 
at 1:45 p.m. Pages H6606–07 

Motion to Adjourn: Rejected the Ellison motion to 
adjourn by a recorded vote of 3 ayes to 393 noes, 
Roll No. 616. Pages H6608–09 

Meeting Hour: Agreed that when the House adjourns 
today, it adjourn to meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow, 
December 5th. Page H6609 

Discharge Petition: Representative Walz presented 
to the clerk a motion to discharge the Committees 
on Ways and Means and the Budget from the consideration 
of H.R. 15, to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide tax relief to middle-
class families (Discharge Petition No. 6). 

Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes and 
one recorded vote developed during the proceedings 
of today and appear on pages H6607, H6607–08, 
and H6608–09. There were no quorum calls. 

Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and adjourned 
at 4:45 p.m. 

Committee Meetings 

TERRORIST EXPLOITATION OF REFUGEE 
PROGRAMS 

Committee on Homeland Security: Subcommittee on 
Counterterrorism and Intelligence held a hearing entitled 
‘‘Terrorist Exploitation of Refugee Programs.’’ 
Testimony was heard from Lawrence Bartlett, Director 
of the Refugee Admissions Office, Bureau of 
Population, Refugees, and Migration, Department of 
State; Barbara Strack, Chief, Refugee Affairs Division, 
United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services, Department of Homeland Security; and 
Dawn Scalici, Deputy Undersecretary, Office of Intelligence 
and Analysis, Department of Homeland 
Security. 

BARONA BAND OF MISSION INDIANS 
LAND TRANSFER CLARIFICATION ACT OF 
2012 

Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Indian 
and Alaska Native Affairs held a hearing on S. 
3193, the ‘‘Barona Band of Mission Indians Land 
Transfer Clarification Act of 2012.’’ Testimony was 
heard from Representative Hunter; Michael Black, 
Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of 
the Interior; and a public witness. 

REVIEW OF THE PREPAREDNESS, 
RESPONSE TO AND RECOVERY FROM 
HURRICANE SANDY 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Full 
Committee held a hearing entitled ‘‘A Review of the 
Preparedness, Response To and Recovery From Hurricane 
Sandy.’’ Testimony was heard from W. Craig 
Fugate, Administrator, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency; Fred Tombar, Senior Advisor to the 


December 4, 2012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1001 

Secretary for Disaster Recovery, Department of 
Housing and Urban Development; Major General 
Michael Walsh, Deputy Commanding General, Civil 
and Emergency Operations, Army Corps of Engineers; 
Robert R. Latham, Jr., Executive Director 
Mississippi Emergency Management Agency; Mark 
Riley, Deputy Director, Governor’s Office of Homeland 
Security and Emergency Preparedness, State of 
Louisiana; and David Popoff, Emergency Management 
Coordinator, Galveston County, Texas. 

CHALLENGES OF TRANSITIONING 
VETERANS RECORDS TO PAPERLESS 
TECHNOLOGY 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Subcommittee on Disability 
Assistance and Memorial Affairs held a hearing 
entitled ‘‘Wading through Warehouses of Paper: 
The Challenges of Transitioning Veterans Records to 
Paperless Technology.’’ Testimony was heard from 
Jim Neighbors, Director of DoD/VA Collaboration 
Office, Department of Defense; Scott Levins, Director 
of the National Personnel Records Center, National 
Archives and Records Administration; Alan 
Bozeman, Director, Veterans Benefits Management 
System, Veterans Benefits Administration, Department 
of Veterans Affairs; and public witnesses. 

Joint Meetings 

No joint committee meetings were held. 

COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY, 

DECEMBER 5, 2012 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Department 
of Homeland Security, to hold hearings to examine 
Hurricane Sandy, focusing on response and recovery and 
progress and challenges, 10 a.m., SD–192. 

Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on African 
Affairs, to hold hearings to examine assessing developments 
in Mali, focusing on restoring democracy and reclaiming 
the north, 9 a.m., SD–419. 

Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: business 
meeting to consider S. 3472, to amend the Family 
Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 to provide 
improvements to such Act, the nomination of Erica Lynn 
Groshen, of New York, to be Commissioner of Labor Statistics, 
Department of Labor, and any pending nominations, 
Time to be announced, Room to be announced. 

House 

Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Europe 
and Eurasia, hearing entitled ‘‘Iranian Influence in the 
South Caucasus and the Surrounding Region,’’ 2 p.m., 
2172 Rayburn. 

Committee on Natural Resources, Full Committee, markup 
of H.R. 6364, the ‘‘Frank Buckles World War I Memorial 
Act’’; H.R. 752, the ‘‘Molalla River Wild and Scenic 
Rivers Act’’; and S. 3193, the ‘‘Barona Band of Mission 
Indians Land Transfer Clarification Act of 2012,’’ 10 
a.m., 1324 Longworth. 

Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee 
on Investigations and Oversight, hearing entitled ‘‘The 
Impact of International Technology Transfer on American 
Research and Development,’’ 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn. 


D1002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 4, 2012 

Next Meeting of the SENATE 

9:30 a.m., Wednesday, December 5 
Senate Chamber 

Program for Wednesday: After the transaction of any 
morning business (not to extend beyond 4 hours), Senate 
will begin consideration of H.R. 6156, Russia and 
Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal Act. 

Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
9 a.m., Wednesday, December 5 

House Chamber 
Program for Wednesday: To be announced. 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

HOUSE Green, Al, Tex., E1874 Rogers, Mike, Ala., E1870 
Honda, Michael M., Calif., E1871 Ross, Mike, Ark., E1873 
Andrews, Robert E., N.J., E1874 
Austria, Steve, Ohio, E1865 
Bachmann, Michele, Minn., E1870 
Berkley, Shelley, Nev., E1873 
Christensen, Donna M., The Virgin Islands, E1872, 
E1875 
Latta, Robert E., Ohio, E1868 
Long, Billy, Mo., E1873 
McDermott, Jim, Wash., E1867 
Manzullo, Donald A., Ill., E1868 
Miller, George, Calif., E1871 
Owens, William L., N.Y., E1874 
Roybal-Allard, Lucille, Calif., E1865, E1870, E1875 
Sherman, Brad, Calif., E1865 
Slaughter, Louise MacIntosh, N.Y., E1867 
Stivers, Steve, Ohio, E1871 
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E1866 
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E1869 Pelosi, Nancy, Calif., E1865 Wilson, Frederica S., Fla., E1865, E1868, E1870, E1872, 
Coffman, Mike, Colo., E1873 Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E1868, E1870, E1873 E1875 
Edwards, Donna F., Md., E1872 Poe, Ted, Tex., E1874 Wolf, Frank R., Va., E1868 
Gibbs, Bob, Ohio, E1868 Rogers, Harold, Ky., E1873 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage 
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House 
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are 
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United 
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when 
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through 
the U.S. Government Printing Office at www.fdsys.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the 
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Printing Office. 
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ The Congressional Record paper and 24x microfiche edition will 
be furnished by mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $252.00 for six months, $503.00 per year, or 
purchased as follows: less than 200 pages, $10.50; between 200 and 400 pages, $21.00; greater than 400 pages, $31.50, payable in advance; 
microfiche edition, $146.00 per year, or purchased for $3.00 per issue payable in advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be 
purchased for the same per issue prices. To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S. Government Online Bookstore at: 
bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO 63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 
(toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or 
use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶Following each session of Congress, the daily Congressional 
Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents in individual parts or by sets. ¶With the 
exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from the Congressional Record. 
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received. 


