UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.04.29 10:18:48 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 112th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 157 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2011 No. 183 

House of Representatives 

The House met at 10 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Speaker pro tempore 
(Mr. WEST). 

f 

DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO 
TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

December 1, 2011. 

I hereby appoint the Honorable ALLEN B. 
WEST to act as Speaker pro tempore on this 
day. 

JOHN A. BOEHNER, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 

MORNING-HOUR DEBATE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the order of the House of January 
5, 2011, the Chair will now recognize 
Members from lists submitted by 
the majority and minority leaders for 
morning-hour debate. 
The Chair will alternate recognition 
between the parties, with each party 
limited to 1 hour and each Member 
other than the majority and minority 
leaders and the minority whip limited 
to 5 minutes each, but in no event shall 
debate continue beyond 11:50 a.m. 

f 

BUDGET GRIDLOCK 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. MCNERNEY) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. MCNERNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
to address the budget gridlock that’s 
ripping Washington apart. Like every 
American who cares about the future 
of our great country, I’m upset by the 
rampant partisan fighting. But I also 
know that the responsibility is not 
equally shared. For proof, look no further 
than the collapse of the deficit 
supercommittee. 
Washington Republicans’ refusal to 
ask the wealthiest people and the big


gest corporations to contribute their 
fair share caused the supercommittee’s 
failure and is putting our country at 
risk. Middle class families are struggling, 
but the world’s biggest corporations 
make huge profits and exploit tax 
loopholes to send jobs overseas. And 
the rich keep getting richer but are 
contributing less. 

This inequality is unacceptable, and 
it hurts America’s economy. For instance, 
the after-tax income of the top 
1 percent rose 281 percent from 1979 to 
2007, but their total average Federal 
tax rate fell by nearly 8 points. Unfortunately, 
Washington Republicans 
have made clear that they will not fix 
the injustices in our Tax Code. 

In fact, 238 Members of the House and 
41 Senators, almost all of them Republicans, 
have signed the infamous Americans 
for Tax Reform pledge. This 
pledge commits its signers to oppose 
any plan, no matter how responsible, 
that would ask the wealthiest people to 
contribute their fair share. Whether 
motivated by extremist ideology or 
commitments to greedy special interests, 
the facts are clear: Republicans 
who signed this pledge cannot take the 
steps our country needs to get our 
budget in order. 

Republicans came to power on a mission 
to rein in the budget deficit, a 
goal that we all support. But instead of 
supporting balanced policies, Washington 
Republicans forced the Congress 
to pass a dangerous budget agreement. 
And thanks to them, our hands are 
tied. If Washington Republicans keep 
refusing to compromise, massive cuts 
will kick in that will harm the middle 
class. 

Washington Republicans won’t negotiate 
and won’t come up with a fair 
budget plan. Instead of helping the 
middle class, Republicans are standing 
up for the megarich. 

According to the Center on Budget 
and Policy Priorities, the plan put forward 
by Republicans on the deficit 

supercommittee shifts even more of 
the tax burden from the rich to the 
middle class. Their plan would change 
the tax tables in a way that benefits 
the wealthiest households more than 
the rest of us, which is what the chart 
next to me shows. As your income 
grows, so do your benefits. The 
wealthiest households will get more 
and more benefit, and their proposal 
dramatically weakens a variety of tax 
policies that help the middle class. I 
can’t support a plan like that, and the 
American people can’t either. 

Democrats and Republicans should be 
working together on fair solutions, but 
the Republicans’ unwillingness to compromise 
is making this goal impossible. 
We can find solutions that will 
reduce the debt and keep taxes low for 
small businesses and middle class families, 
but only if the Republicans stop 
protecting tax breaks for the superrich. 

When I took my oath of office, I 
pledged to protect and defend the Constitution, 
and I am committed to helping 
the middle class getting our economy 
back on track. 

Democrats have demonstrated a willingness 
to talk about difficult subjects 
like entitlement reform, but Republicans 
refuse to negotiate. So I ask my 
Republican colleagues, especially those 
who have signed the ATR pledge, a 
simple question: Where do your loyalties 
lie? With the superrich and the 
special interests or with the hardworking 
Americans? 

f 

LARRY MUNSON 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. BROUN) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. BROUN of Georgia. He turned 
Georgia football games into larger-
than-life experiences. He awakened excitement 
and pinpointed fear in the 
depths of Dawg fans’ souls and shouted 
out those emotions on radios statewide. 
His voice will go down in history 

b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 

.
H8001 


H8002 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

as the soundtrack of some of the most 
famous play calls, highlight reels, and 
moments for UGA that will simply 
never be forgotten. 

Whether it was his describing the 
‘‘sugar’’ falling out of the sky, or begging 
the Dawgs to hunker down one 
more last time, Larry Munson had an 
unmatched ability to find words for 
feelings that just could not be spoken. 
To call him an iconic play-by-play announcer 
for the University of Georgia 
football team would be a vast understatement. 
He was a classic city treasure, 
an Athens legend. And for 42 years, 
Larry Munson breathed life into the 
Sanford Stadium and made the Dawgs 
dance. 

He was different from all other 
sportscasters. Larry Munson was very 
authentic. He always told it like it 
was, even when he had given up on a 
red and black win. He didn’t care about 
political correctness, and he wasn’t 
afraid to scream about stepping on 
Tennessee’s face with a hobnailed boot 
or breaking his chair—his metal, steel 
chair with a five-inch cushion—when 
Georgia beat Florida in 1980 and then 
went on to win the national championship. 
He loved Georgia football, and 
Georgia football loved Larry Munson 
just right back. 

His memory will live on forever in 
the body of the Bulldog Nation, in the 
hearts of all Dawg fans, and will live on 
between the hedges every game day. 

On behalf of the United States Congress, 
here’s to you, Larry, one of the 
best Dawgs that Georgia has ever 
known. And we’ll never forget. We’ll 
miss you greatly, Larry. 

Go Dawgs. 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members 
are reminded to address their remarks 
to the Chair. 

f 

UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. HOYER) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, before we 
adjourn for the year, there are a number 
of important items that we must 
address. The most pressing is the expiration 
of unemployment benefits at the 
end of December. 
Should Congress fail to act, millions 
of Americans who rely on emergency 
unemployment compensation will 
begin to see their payments disappear 
starting in January. 2.1 million of our 
fellow Americans will have lost their 
benefits by the middle of February, and 
over 6 million by the end of 2012. However, 
we have the power to prevent 
that from happening by extending 
those benefits. 
These emergency benefits were put in 
place at the start of the recession in 
December of ’07; and with so many 
Americans still out of work, now is certainly 
not the time to let them come 
to an end. 

b 1010 
The number one challenge we must 
address in the Congress remains job 

creation. Americans out of work have 
been doing their part to find jobs. Congress 
must do its part as well. Some 
Republicans have unfairly and incorrectly 
blamed those who have been laid 
off for their continued difficulty in 
finding jobs. However, there are over 
four people looking for every one job 
that is available. At the same time, 
there are nearly 7 million fewer jobs 
today than there were in 2007. 

Instead of blaming the victims, we 
ought to work together, Democrats and 
Republicans, to find solutions. Congress 
has never allowed emergency unemployment 
benefits to lapse with our 
jobless rate anywhere close to where it 
is today. If it did, over 17,000 people in 
my State of Maryland would see their 
lifeline cut off by February. In Ohio, 
Speaker BOEHNER’s State, 80,000 people 
are at risk. 

Among African Americans, Latinos 
and other minorities, a disproportionate 
number have been affected by 
long-term unemployment and are especially 
vulnerable if these benefits were 
to end. Every State would see more 
Americans who are out of work slip 
into poverty. Local communities would 
be affected, too, with residual job 
losses. The Economic Policy Institute 
has estimated that allowing these benefits 
to expire would cost us another 
500,000 jobs—a half a million. 

I sincerely hope that Republicans 
will work with us to prevent so many 
Americans from being left out in the 
cold as they continue to seek jobs but 
can’t find them. It’s long past the time 
that they start working with us to pass 
a real jobs plan to get Americans back 
to work and grow our economy. 

The President put a jobs bill on our 
desk in September. It is now December. 
We’ve yet to see that bill or any other 
jobs bill put on this House floor by the 
Republican leadership. Democrats have 
multiple jobs plans on the table—the 
President’s American Jobs Act and the 
House Democrats’ Make It in America 
plan. Both will help create jobs right 
away and invest in long-term economic 
competitiveness. 

If Republicans continue to be unwilling 
to work with us on a plan to create 
jobs, I hope they will at least work 
with us to pass a measure that will prevent 
further losses as a result of expiring 
unemployment benefits. I strongly 
urge my Republican friends to help us 
stop the looming and entirely preventable 
disaster of millions having no support. 
It is the responsibility we have to 
our constituents and to those looking 
to us for leadership during this challenging 
time. 

Let us not go home. Let us not celebrate 
Christmas or other holidays 
without ensuring the extension of unemployment 
benefits for those Americans 
who cannot find jobs, notwithstanding 
the fact they are looking for 
jobs. They’re counting on us. Let’s be 
sure that their reliance was well 
placed. 

YUCCA MOUNTAIN: HIGH-LEVEL 
NUCLEAR WASTE STORAGE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. SHIMKUS) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. SHIMKUS. It’s always great to 
follow the highly respected minority 
whip, and he is highly respected. 

I would say that there are a lot of 
pressing problems in this country. 
There is one I’ll speak about today, and 
that’s the high-level nuclear waste 
storage throughout this country. 
would also say to my friend that part 
of the jobs bill has been passed. We 
passed the free trade agreement; we 
passed the veterans benefit portion; we 
passed the 3 percent withholding. So 
there has been movement in a bipartisan 
manner on some provisions in the 
bill. 

So now, Mr. Speaker, let me segue to 
an issue for which I’ve come to the 
floor now six times, that of going 
throughout the country and highlighting 
where high-level nuclear waste 
is stored throughout this country. 

Today, we’ll travel to the State of 
Massachusetts, right on Cape Cod Bay 
where the Pilgrim Nuclear Power Plant 
sits. Again, it’s right on Cape Cod Bay. 
At Pilgrim, there are over 2,918 spent-
fuel assemblies on site. Yucca Mountain, 
which is the defined storage location, 
by law, in the 1982 Nuclear Waste 
Policy Act, currently has no nuclear 
waste on site. I like to keep highlighting 
the real distinct differences 
based upon the years of talking about 
this issue and highlighting some of the 
arguments against Yucca, comparing it 
to where we have nuclear waste today. 

So let’s, again, continue to look at 
the Pilgrim Nuclear Power Plant. The 
waste is stored aboveground in pools, 
very similar to Fukushima-Diachi in 
Japan. At Yucca the waste will be 
stored 1,000 feet underground—above 
the ground in pools, 1,000 feet underground. 
I think Yucca is a better location. 
At Pilgrim the waste is 20 feet 
from the water table. At Yucca it 
would be 1,000 feet above the water 
table. I think that’s a better, safer and 
more secure location. You can see the 
Pilgrim plant is right on Cape Cod Bay, 
right next to the water. Yucca Mountain 
is situated 100 miles from, really, 
the nearest body of water, which would 
be the Colorado River. 

Now, for those who have been following 
my time in coming to the floor, 
this is my sixth time. I started at Han-
ford, a DOE facility in Washington 
State, and compared it to Yucca Mountain. 
I then went to Zion. I’ve got my 
friend from Chicago right here. Zion is 
right on Lake Michigan, which is a decommissioned 
nuclear power plant that 
still has waste stored on site; but Wisconsin 
has two nuclear power plants 
right on Lake Michigan. 

Then I went to Savannah, Georgia, to 
talk about the nuclear waste there. Of 
course, it has the Savannah River; so 
it’s right next to the Savannah River. 
Then I went out to California to look 
at San Onofre, the nuclear power plant 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8003 

that’s right on the Pacific Ocean. Then 
I went to Idaho and looked at the Idaho 
National Labs and the nuclear waste 
stored there. Today, we go to Massachusetts. 


The point being, there is high-level 
nuclear waste stored all over this country, 
and a single repository at Yucca 
Mountain makes sense for all of the 
right reasons: it’s over 100 miles from 
the largest city; it’s in the desert; it 
would be underneath a mountain. 
There is no more safe, secure location. 

Why are we not moving forward? Because 
this administration has decided 
not to spend the money needed to finish 
the final environmental study 
through the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 


So where are our Senators on this position? 
I’ve been bringing this down to 
the floor through all these States. We 
need 60 votes in the Senate to secure 
America’s nuclear waste. Right now, 
through the States, based upon the 
States we’ve identified, there are 20 
‘‘yeses.’’ We’ve got about seven who are 
relatively new. We don’t know their positions. 
Of course, we have established 
five who are ‘‘noes.’’ There are some in 
the New England States that I mentioned: 


SUSAN COLLINS voted for Yucca 
Mountain in 2002. OLYMPIA SNOWE 
voted for it in 2002. Senator KERRY 
voted against it. Now, Pilgrim is in the 
State of Massachusetts. Based upon his 
statement, I guess Senator KERRY feels 
that Pilgrim is a more safe and secure 
location than Yucca Mountain. SCOTT 
BROWN has no position yet. Senator 
AYOTTE has no position. Senator SHAHEEN 
has no position. Of course, the 
Independent from Vermont has voted 
‘‘no.’’ 

f 

UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 
EXTENSION 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE) for 5 minutes. 

Ms. MOORE. Recently and even 
today, we’ve heard a lot from both 
sides of the aisle about the extension of 
unemployment insurance; but I think 
the voices that we need to be listening 
to are the voices of the American people. 
So, if you would indulge me, Mr. 
Speaker, I would like to read a letter 
from one of my constituents: 

‘‘Ms. Moore, I am writing you today 
to request that you pass the extension 
for unemployment insurance benefits. I 
am a single mom and experienced a 
layoff at my job this past summer. My 
benefits are about to run out, and I am 
still looking for a job. Last week alone, 
I applied to over 20 jobs online, and received 
only one call-back for an interview. 
I have $600 left to claim on unemployment. 
After that, I do not know 
what I am going to do. I pray every day 
that this extension will go through before 
the holidays. That is all I want for 
Christmas. 

b 1020 
‘‘Being unemployed has left me with 
a sense of low self-worth. And I find 

that I cry all the time. I hope that my 
interview next week is successful. 
Nonetheless, I am trying to be 
proactive on the job hunt. I have a 
webinar scheduled today for successful 
interviewing skills. And I am hoping to 
apply those skills in my interview next 
week. I just want some peace of mind 
that I will continue to receive the extension 
before the holiday.’’ 

Sadly, this young woman is just one 
of 58,000 Wisconsinites who will lose 
benefits if we don’t extend the unemployment 
insurance. And, of course, 
there are millions of stories like this 
across the country, hardworking Americans, 
Mr. Speaker, who just want the 
opportunity to have an opportunity. 

And as the holidays approach, the 
harsh realities of our failed economy 
become more and more prevalent. I, 
along with all of my Democratic colleagues, 
have been calling for the passage 
of an extension of UI benefits for 
what seems like an eternity. Yet some 
would turn their backs on their fellow 
Americans during the holidays and in 
these most trying of economic times. 

Like the Grinch who stole Christmas, 
the Republican majority with devilish 
grins are tipping through Whoville or, 
in this case, across the country attempting 
to steal the holiday cheer 
from hardworking Americans with 
these tortured rationales as to why 
they oppose these much and desperately 
needed benefits, while continuing 
simultaneously to work to ensure 
that the rich get richer through 
maintaining tax cuts. 

The Unemployment Insurance Program 
serves as a lifeline for millions of 
unemployed Americans and their families, 
their children, who are now at the 
mercy of the worst job market since 
the Great Depression. Millions of hardworking 
Americans, nearly 2 million in 
just January alone and over 6 million 
in 2012, will be cut off from the emergency 
lifeline that is unemployment 
insurance unless Congress acts. 

Mr. Speaker, these are Americans 
who have been laid off and are desperately 
searching for work. But the 
jobs just are not there. That is why we 
must pass the Doggett-Levin Emergency 
Unemployment Compensation 
Extension Act. The Emergency Unemployment 
Compensation Extension Act 
is just common sense, and it will continue 
the current Federal unemployment 
programs through next year. The 
extension of these benefits will not 
only strengthen the safety net for the 
unemployed, but it will, most importantly, 
promote economic recovery by 
preventing the loss of a half-million 
jobs. 

Additionally, relieving insolvent 
States from interest payments on Federal 
loans for 1 year will help the 
States, including Wisconsin, which 
were forced to borrow funds from the 
Federal Government in order to pay for 
unemployment benefits for the thousands 
of unemployed or laid off. 

Never, never before now has this been 
a partisan issue where Congress, con


trolled by either party, has denied this 
life-sustaining unemployment benefit. 
Right now we need a holiday miracle. 
We need a miracle to help these 
grinches grow hearts and vote immediately 
to extend the Unemployment 
Insurance Program. 

I call on my colleagues, Mr. Speaker, 
to come together this season and bring 
some holiday cheer back to the American 
people. 

f 

HONORING TOM MELLON 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5 
minutes. 
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to honor one of the Bucks 
County Bar Association’s most ardent 
supporters, my dear friend, Tom Mellon. 
Tom is known by many around the 
country for his passion and commitment 
to the law, but is equally known 
in the Bucks County area as a dedicated 
civil servant who has spent his 
entire life giving back to the community. 
I’ve known Tom for many years, and 
although we come from different party 
backgrounds, it has never gotten in the 
way of our friendship. Our shared values 
have always trumped politics. First 
and foremost, Tom is a family man. 
He’s a loyal husband to Sara and a 
dedicated father to four sons, Thomas, 
Christopher, Ryan and Henry. Tom is 
also one of the friendliest people you 
will ever meet. He has a genuine personality 
and a warm welcoming demeanor, 
which have served him well 
throughout his career. 
Tom always seems to carry with him 
an inner Irish spirit. From day one he 
has championed the underdog and the 
downtrodden, which is truly an admirable 
quality. Throughout the course of 
his legal career, Tom has been the 
David to many a corporation’s Goliath, 
taking on Big Tobacco, multiple pharmaceutical 
companies, and even global 
terrorists. He never waivers in his dedication 
to his clients or to his cause. 
His cases are taken not necessarily because 
he knows he can win, but because 
morally they are the right thing to do. 
Tom is truly an inspiration to many 
young, aspiring attorneys who want to 
change the world. He has been to me. 
As Tom sees it, his life duty is to 
help those who are in need. He 
launched his legal career representing 
the interests of victims of crime in the 
United States Attorney’s Office, and he 
has never looked back. 
Today he continues his representation 
of the less fortunate, proudly serving 
as a trial attorney in Doylestown, 
Pennsylvania. 
After 9/11 Tom served as a lead counsel 
among a national consortium of attorneys 
who were retained by the families 
of the victims of the terrorist attacks 
in order to pursue an investigation 
into the involvement of Iran and 
al Qaeda. In 1999 Tom arranged for the 
first group of American lawyers to 


H8004 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

visit Havana, Cuba, in order to better 
understand the culture of the land and 
the inner struggles of the Cuban people. 


Currently Tom also serves on the 
board of directors of the Bucks Mont 
Katrina Relief Project and has raised 
millions of dollars for the victims of 
Hurricane Katrina in Hancock County, 
Mississippi. As part of this mission, 
Tom has led over 100 attorneys and 
their family members on multiple trips 
to Hancock County to clean up the devastation, 
rebuild homes, and assist in 
the construction of new community 
buildings like a food pantry and an animal 
shelter. 

Tom’s morals and decorum permeate 
every aspect of his life. His loyalty is 
unwavering and unparalleled, whether 
it be to family, friends, employees, or 
clients. His dedication to the community 
speaks volumes about who Tom is 
as a person. He is a kind, giving, 
unique individual, and I’m truly 
blessed to have called him a friend for 
so many years and to honor him today 
as he will be honored tonight at the 
Bucks County Bar Association. 

f 

WALL STREET VERSUS MAIN 
STREET 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) for 5 minutes. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, it’s no secret 
that Wall Street is rampant with 
cases of outright fraud, backroom deals 
and very, very special political access. 
Meanwhile, Main Street is pushing 
back hard against this tide by investing 
in our communities and struggling 
to create jobs so our economy can 
grow. 

A steady series of probing news stories 
have begun to expose the depth of 
corruption that precipitated the Wall 
Street meltdown and why it is so hard 
for Main Street to recover. 

Bloomberg just released a story detailing 
how the former Secretary of the 
Treasury, Hank Paulson, provided special 
insider information to well connected 
Wall Street executives in July 
of 2008, just before the meltdown. According 
to Bloomberg, on the very 
same day the former Secretary told 
The New York Times that he expected 
the examinations of the Federal Reserve 
and the Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency into Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac would ‘‘give a signal of 
confidence to the markets,’’ he informed 
a select group of his friends on 
Wall Street later in the day that in reality, 
there was a plan for placing 
‘‘Fannie and Freddie into conservator-
ship,’’ which amounts to a government 
seizure. Those firms got insider information, 
and one can ask, did they then 
place bets to protect their interests? I 
bet they did. 

One of the fund managers in that 
meeting said ‘‘he was shocked that 
Paulson would furnish such specific information, 
leaving little doubt that the 
Treasury Department would carry out 

that plan.’’ In the words of William 
Black, law expert at the University of 
Missouri, ‘‘There was no legitimate 
reason for these disclosures.’’ 

The Secretary of Treasury is supposed 
to be a public steward of our Nation’s 
financial well-being. But when 
he told the public one story and then 
shared the inside track with his friends 
and colleagues from Goldman Sachs 
and other large firms, he broke that 
trust. 

b 1030 
To be blunt, this is self-serving crony 
capitalism at its worst. 
This is hardly the only case of special 
treatment of Wall Street insiders by 
Washington, insiders like Paulson, who 
was the former head of Goldman Sachs. 
Earlier this week, we saw a U.S. District 
Court throw out a settlement between 
the Securities & Exchange Commission 
and Citigroup. In 2008, 
Citigroup reportedly created, marketed, 
and sold a fund to investors. 
What Citigroup did not disclose is that 
the bank itself was actually betting 
against their own fund. This fraudulent 
deal made Citigroup $160 million while 
costing the fund’s investors $700 million 
in losses, and counting. 
The SEC’s response to this fraud was 
a $285 million settlement, slightly 
more than a third of the reported 
losses incurred by the victims of this 
fraud. Citigroup was not even required 
to admit any wrongdoing. The federal 
judge was absolutely correct to throw 
this case out. The SEC’s policy of allowing 
large Wall Street firms to walk 
away from fraud cases without so much 
as admitting any wrongdoing is completely 
inappropriate and invites more 
corruption. 
Growing reports of fraud are staggering, 
and they underlie the Wall 
Street dealing that has so harmed our 
Nation. Throughout November, we saw 
headline after headline of how MF 
Global took money from its own private 
customer accounts as it tried to 
stay afloat in the days before it filed 
one of the largest bankruptcies in 
American history. There may be as 
much as $1.2 billion unaccounted for. 
We used to call that stealing. 
The fact is our Justice Department 
has only a handful of FBI agents to 
properly investigate the volume of corruption 
infecting our markets. After 
reviewing the FBI’s own testimonies, I 
introduced H.R. 1350, the Financial Crisis 
Criminal Investigation Act, to authorize 
an additional 1,000 FBI agents 
and forensic experts to prosecute white 
collar crime, especially Wall Street. 
Back in the 1990s when we had the S&L 
crisis, we had a thousand agents. When 
this crisis started, there were but a 
handful because they had all been 
switched to terrorism investigations. 
When you look at these cases, what 
is astounding is just how well connected 
so many of these institutions on 
Wall Street are to the corridors of 
power in Washington. It now appears 
even former Speaker Newt Gingrich 

was paid millions of dollars by Freddie 
Mac before it went bankrupt. 

At a minimum, our Nation needs an 
independent commission to investigate 
what actions led to the eventual collapse 
of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 
by which Wall Street turned over all of 
its toxic mortgage paper to the taxpayers 
of the United States for the 
next three generations. 

I have a bill to do just that, H.R. 2093. 
I ask other Members of the House to 
sponsor the Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac Criminal Investigative Commission 
Act. 

So while real justice for Wall Street 
languishes in places from Cleveland to 
Toledo, Main Street America is trying 
to create jobs. It’s over time for Washington 
to get its House in order to restore 
accountability to Wall Street so 
that full confidence can be restored to 
our economy. Exacting justice for Wall 
Street wrongdoing is long overdue. 
That task remains fundamental to economic 
recovery and job growth. 

[From the Bloomberg Markets Margazine, 

Nov. 29, 2011] 

HOW PAULSON GAVE HEDGE FUNDS ADVANCE 

WORD OF FANNIE MAE RESCUE 

(By Richard Teitelbaum) 

Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson stepped 
off the elevator into the Third Avenue offices 
of hedge fund Eton Park Capital Management 
LP in Manhattan. It was July 21, 2008, 
and market fears were mounting. Four 
months earlier, Bear Stearns Cos. had sold 
itself for just $10 a share to JPMorgan Chase 
& Co. (JPM). 

Now, amid tumbling home prices and near-
record foreclosures, attention was focused on 
a new source of contagion: Fannie Mae 
(FNMA) and Freddie Mac, which together 
had more than $5 trillion in mortgage-
backed securities and other debt outstanding, 
Bloomberg Markets reports in its 
January issue. 

Paulson had been pushing a plan in Congress 
to open lines of credit to the two struggling 
firms and to grant authority for the 
Treasury Department to buy equity in them. 
Yet he had told reporters on July 13 that the 
firms must remain shareholder owned and 
had testified at a Senate hearing two days 
later that giving the government new power 
to intervene made actual intervention improbable. 


‘‘If you have a bazooka, and people know 
you have it, you’re not likely to take it 
out,’’ he said. 

On the morning of July 21, before the Eton 
Park meeting, Paulson had spoken to New 
York Times reporters and editors, according 
to his Treasury Department schedule. A 
Times article the next day said the Federal 
Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of 
the Currency were inspecting Fannie and 
Freddie’s books and cited Paulson as saying 
he expected their examination would give a 
signal of confidence to the markets. 

A DIFFERENT MESSAGE 

At the Eton Park meeting, he sent a different 
message, according to a fund manager 
who attended. Over sandwiches and pasta 
salad, he delivered that information to a 
group of men capable of profiting from any 
disclosure. 

Around the conference room table were a 
dozen or so hedge-fund managers and other 
Wall Street executives—at least five of them 
alumni of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS), of 
which Paulson was chief executive officer 
and chairman from 1999 to 2006. In addition 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8005 

to Eton Park founder Eric Mindich they included 
such boldface names as Lone Pine 
Capital LLC founder Stephen Mandel, 
Dinakar Singh of TPG-Axon Capital Management 
LP and Daniel Och of Och-Ziff Capital 
Management Group LLC. 

After a perfunctory discussion of the market 
turmoil, the fund manager says, the discussion 
turned to Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac. Paulson said he had erred by not punishing 
Bear Stearns shareholders more severely. 
The secretary, then 62, went on to describe 
a possible scenario for placing Fannie 
and Freddie into ‘‘conservatorship’’—a government 
seizure designed to allow the firms 
to continue operations despite heavy losses 
in the mortgage markets. . . . 

SHARES RALLY 

At the time Paulson privately addressed 
the fund managers at Eton Park, he had 
given the market some positive signals—and 
the GSEs’ shares were rallying, with Fannie 
Mae’s nearly doubling in four days. William 
Black, associate professor of economics 
and law at the University of Missouri-Kansas 
City, can’t understand why Paulson felt impelled 
to share the Treasury Department’s 
plan with the fund managers. 

‘‘You just never ever do that as a government 
regulator—transmit nonpublic market 
information to market participants,’’ says 
Black, who’s a former general counsel at the 
Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco. 
‘‘There were no legitimate reasons for those 
disclosures.’’ 

Janet Tavakoli, founder of Chicago-based 
financial consulting firm Tavakoli Structured 
Finance Inc., says the meeting fits a 
pattern. 

‘‘What is this but crony capitalism?’’ she 
asks. ‘‘Most people have had their fill of it.’’ 
A LAWYER’S ADVICE 

The fund manager who described the meeting 
left after coffee and called his lawyer. 
The attorney’s quick conclusion: Paulson’s 
talk was material nonpublic information, 
and his client should immediately stop trading 
the shares of Washington-based Fannie 
and McLean, Virginia-based Freddie. . . . 

GOLDMAN ALUMS 

One other Goldman Sachs alumnus was at 
the meeting: Frank Brosens, founder and 
principal of Taconic Capital Advisors LP, 
who worked at Goldman as an arbitrageur 
and who was a protege of Robert Rubin, who 
went on to become Treasury secretary. 

Non-Goldman Sachs alumni who attended 
included short seller James Chanos of 
Kynikos Associates Ltd., who helped uncover 
the Enron Corp. accounting fraud; GS. Capital 
Partners LP co-founder Bennett Goodman, 
who sold his firm to Blackstone Group 
LP (BX) in early 2008; Roger Altman, chairman 
and founder of New York investment 
bank Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR); and Steven 
Rattner, a co-founder of private-equity 
firm Quadrangle roup LLC, who went on to 
serve as head of the U.S. government’s Automotive 
Task Force. . . . 

[From the New York Times, Nov. 28, 2011] 

JUDGE BLOCKS CITIGROUP SETTLEMENT WITH 

S.E.C. 

(By Edward Wyatt) 

WASHINGTON.—Taking a broad swipe at the 
Securities and Exchange Commission’s practice 
of allowing companies to settle cases 
without admitting that they had done anything 
wrong, a federal judge on Monday rejected 
a $285 million settlement between 
Citigroup and the agency. 

The judge, Jed S. Rakoff of United States 
District Court in Manhattan, said that he 
could not determine whether the agency’s 
settlement with Citigroup was ‘‘fair, reason


able, adequate and in the public interest,’’ as 
required by law, because the agency had 
claimed, but had not proved, that Citigroup 
committed fraud. 

As it has in recent cases involving Bank of 
America, JPMorgan Chase, UBS and others, 
the agency proposed to settle the case by 
levying a fine on Citigroup and allowing it to 
neither admit nor deny the agency’s findings. 
Such settlements require approval by a 
federal judge. 

While other judges are not obligated to follow 
Judge Rakoff’s opinion, the 15–page ruling 
could severely undermine the agency’s 
enforcement efforts if it eventually blocks 
the agency from settling cases in which the 
defendant does not admit the charges. 

The agency contends that it must settle 
most of the cases it brings because it does 
not have the money or the staff to battle 
deep-pocketed Wall Street firms in court. 
Wall Street firms will rarely admit wrongdoing, 
the agency says, because that can be 
used against them in investor lawsuits. 

The agency in particular, Judge Rakoff argued, 
‘‘has a duty, inherent in its statutory 
mission, to see that the truth emerges.’’ But 
it is difficult to tell what the agency is getting 
from this settlement ‘‘other than a 
quick headline.’’ Even a $285 million settlement, 
he said, ‘‘is pocket change to any entity 
as large as Citigroup,’’ and often viewed 
by Wall Street firms ‘‘as a cost of doing business.’’ 


According to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, Citigroup stuffed a $1 billion 
mortgage fund that it sold to investors in 
2007 with securities that it believed would 
fail so that it could bet against its customers 
and profit when values declined. The fraud, 
the agency said, was in Citigroup’s falsely 
telling investors that an independent party 
was choosing the portfolio’s investments. 
Citigroup made $160 million from the deal 
and investors lost $700 million. 

Judge Rakoff said the agency settlement 
policy—‘‘hallowed by history, but not by reason’’—
creates substantial potential for abuse 
because ‘‘it asks the court to employ its 
power and assert its authority when it does 
not know the facts.’’ That undermines the 
constitutional separation of powers, he said, 
by asking the judiciary to rubber-stamp the 
executive branch’s interpretation of the law. 

The agency said that it disagreed with the 
judge’s ruling but did not say whether it 
would appeal, or try to refashion the settlement 
or prepare to begin a trial, as the judge 
directed, on July 16. 

Robert Khuzami, the agency’s director of 
enforcement, said in a statement that the 
Citigroup settlement ‘‘reasonably reflects 
the scope of relief that would be obtained 
after a successful trial,’’ and that the decision 
‘‘ignores decades of established practice 
throughout federal agencies and decisions of 
the federal courts.’’ 

Citigroup said it also disagreed with Judge 
Rakoff’s decision, adding that it would fight 
the charges if the case indeed went to trial. 

‘‘We believe the proposed settlement is a 
fair and reasonable resolution to the S.E.C.’s 
allegation of negligence, which relates to a 
five-year-old transaction,’’ Edward Skyler, a 
Citigroup spokesman, said in a statement 
‘‘We also believe the settlement fully complies 
with long-established legal standards. 
In the event the case is tried, we would 
present substantial factual and legal defenses 
to the charges.’’ 

In his decision, Judge Rakoff called 
Citigroup ‘‘a recidivist’’ or repeat offender, 
for having Previously settled other fraud 
cases with the agency where it neither admitted 
nor denied the allegations but agreed 
never to violate the law in the future. 

Citigroup and other repeat offenders can 
agree to those terms, the judge said, because 

they know that the commission has not 
monitored compliance, failing to bring contempt 
charges for repeat violations in at 
least 10 years. 

A recent analysis by The New York Times 
of the agency’s fraud settlements with Wall 
Street firms found 51 instances, involving 19 
companies, in which the agency claimed that 
a company had broken fraud laws that they 
previously had agreed never to breach. Securities 
law experts said that the ruling presents 
the agency with a tough dilemma. In 
future cases, it will have to consider the risk 
that another judge may be reluctant to approve 
a settlement given the Rakoff ruling. 

‘‘This is clearly a case of great significance,’’ 
said Harvey Pitt, a former chairman 
of the agency who is now chief executive at 
Kalorama Partners in Washington. ‘‘It’s also 
a case for which there is no direct precedent 
Courts have been approving settlements by 
government agencies without any admissions 
of wrongdoing for years.’’ 

On the other hand, Mr. Pitt noted, ‘‘there 
is no suggestion here that this decision 
would apply in every single case,’’ because 
Citigroup has reached such settlements before, 
a situation that sets this case apart 
from many Securities and Exchange Commission 
settlements. 

Judge Rakoff has been a frequent critic of 
the agency’s settlements. In 2009, he rejected 
a proposed $33 million settlement with Bank 
of America for a case in which the agency 
said the bank had misled shareholders over 
its acquisition of Merrill Lynch. He eventually 
approved a $150 million settlement after 
the agency presented further evidence of the 
bank’s wrongdoing. 

The judge also noted the difference between 
the agency’s settlement with 
Citigroup and its settlement last year with 
Goldman Sachs in a similar mortgage-derivatives 
case. Goldman was required to say 
that its marketing materials for the product 
‘‘contained incomplete information.’’ 

In the Citigroup case, no such facts were 
agreed on. ‘‘An application of judicial power 
that does not rest on facts is worse than 
mindless, it is inherently dangerous,’’ Judge 
Rakoff wrote. ‘‘In any case like this that 
touches on the transparency of financial 
markets whose gyrations have so depressed 
our economy and debilitated our lives, there 
is an overriding public interest in knowing 
the truth.’’ 

Mr. Khuzami took issue with the judge’s 
characterization of the settlement ‘‘These 
are not ‘mere’ allegations,’’ he said, ‘‘but the 
reasoned conclusions of the federal agency 
responsible for the enforcement of the securities 
laws after a thorough and careful investigation 
of the facts.’’ 

Barbara Black, a professor at the University 
of Cincinnati College of Law who edits 
the Securities Law Prof Blog, said that the 
decision was interesting because Judge 
Rakoff carefully treads the line between the 
deference that judges are supposed to show 
to regulatory agencies while also ensuring 
that the court does not simply rubber-stamp 
decisions. 

In a legal dispute between two private parties, 
they can agree to whatever settlement 
they desire, Ms. Black said. But in a case involving 
a public agency with consequences 
that affect the public interest, there has to 
be some kind of acknowledgment that certain 
things did occur, she added. 

DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE U.S. 
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY 

MISSION 

Maintain a strong economy and create economic 
and job opportunities by promoting 
the conditions that enable economic growth 
and stability at home and abroad, strengthen 
national security by combating threats and 


H8006 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

protecting the integrity of the financial system, 
and manage the U.S. Government’s finances 
and resources effectively. 

Treasury’s mission highlights its role as 
the steward of U.S. economic and financial 
systems, and as an influential participant in 
the world economy. 

The Treasury Department is the executive 
agency responsible for promoting economic 
prosperity and ensuring the financial security 
of the United States. The Department is 
responsible for a wide range of activities 
such as advising the President on economic 
and financial issues, encouraging sustainable 
economic growth, and fostering improved 
governance in financial institutions. The Department 
of the Treasury operates and maintains 
systems that are critical to the nation’s 
financial infrastructure, such as the 
production of coin and currency, the disbursement 
of payments to the American public, 
revenue collection, and the borrowing of 
funds necessary to run the federal government. 
The Department works with other federal 
agencies, foreign governments, and 
international financial institutions to encourage 
global economic growth, raise standards 
of living, and to the extent possible, 
predict and prevent economic and financial 
crises. The Treasury Department also performs 
a critical and far-reaching role in enhancing 
national security by implementing 
economic sanctions against foreign threats 
to the U.S., identifying and targeting the financial 
support networks of national security 
threats, and improving the safeguards of 
our financial systems. 

ORGANIZATION 

The Department of the Treasury is organized 
into two major components the Departmental 
offices and the operating bureaus. 
The Departmental Offices are primarily 
responsible for the formulation of 
policy and management of the Department 
as a whole, while the operating bureaus 
carry out the specific operations assigned to 
the Department. Our bureaus make up 98% of 
the Treasury work force. The basic functions 
of the Department of the Treasury include: 

Managing Federal finances; 

Collecting taxes, duties and monies paid to 
and due to the U.S. and paying all bills of 
the U.S.; 

Currency and coinage; 

Managing Government accounts and the 
public debt; 

Supervising national banks and thrift institutions; 


Advising on domestic and international financial, 
monetary, economic, trade and tax 
policy; 

Enforcing Federal finance and tax laws; 

Investigating and prosecuting tax evaders, 
counterfeiters, and forgers. 

f 

FIXING A BROKEN WASHINGTON 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. YOUNG) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. YOUNG of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise today to speak on behalf of the 
overwhelming majority of my southern 
Indiana constituents. 

A year ago, they sent me to this body 
to give a voice to their frustrations 
with Washington—a frustration I 
shared then and share now more than 
ever. The American people’s frustration 
stems from a lack of real progress 
in addressing our Nation’s most fundamental 
challenges: Federal spending, 
our national debt, job creation, and the 
decline of the middle class. Our fellow 

citizens have concluded what I, too, 
have concluded—Washington is broken, 
and no one is in a hurry to fix it. 

Congress hasn’t passed a balanced 
budget in over a decade. The Senate 
hasn’t passed any sort of budget in 3 
years. Our national debt recently 
topped $15 trillion, and our unemployment 
rate hovers around 9 percent. Instead 
of trying to fix our problems, 
Washington would rather argue about 
who’s to blame for causing our problems. 
Sure, there’s a lot of agreement 
as to what’s wrong with our country, 
but not a lot of action geared towards 
making anything right. Our President 
and too many in this Congress would 
rather demagogue and demonize than 
lead and legislate. Washington is broken, 
and nobody’s in a hurry to fix it. 

While many of our constituents are 
struggling to find a second, and in 
some cases a third, job, Washington is 
failing to perform its only job—governing. 
Is it any wonder that so many 
Americans are frustrated? 

These aren’t Republican problems or 
Democrat problems. They’re not House 
problems or Senate problems; these are 
Washington problems. Unfortunately, 
after 11 months on the job, I’ve seen far 
too few Washington solutions. 

Many of us came to Washington this 
year, some of us new to government, to 
offer solutions. We came ready with 
ideas. We came ready to defend those 
ideas, to respond to criticisms, to make 
the ideas into workable solutions and, 
ultimately, to implement those solutions 
to make a better life for those 
who sent us here. We came with the 
same sense of urgency that the American 
people expect of us. 

But Washington is broken. Too many 
people in this city resist publicly committing 
to hard, workable solutions because 
parroting talking points is so 
much easier. But until we get down to 
brass tacks, we’ll continue to talk past 
one another. 

So I make this entreaty to all of my 
colleagues: whether you are a Republican 
or a Democrat, commit to proposing 
workable solutions. Get into the 
details. Put them on paper. Until both 
sides put a specific, written, scoreable 
plan on the table, we’ll never find the 
common ground necessary to strike 
that grand bargain. In the absence of 
specifics, we’re just playing politics. 
That’s why Washington is broken. 

Now, earlier this year, those of us on 
the Budget Committee introduced a 
comprehensive plan that would reduce 
our deficit over the next decade by over 
$6 trillion. It would balance the budget 
and start paying down our debt. It 
would create an environment where 
jobs could flourish and grow, and it 
would save and strengthen our safety 
net programs likes Medicare and Medicaid. 
Most importantly, it addressed 
our challenges with the sense of urgency 
they require. 

If you disagree with that plan or you 
have a more optimal solution, let’s 
hear it. Introduce it. I’m open to better 
plans. I didn’t come to Congress be


cause I thought I had all of the solutions. 
I came to Congress because my 
constituents wanted me to be part of 
the solution. But criticizing the other 
guy’s plan is not the same as having a 
plan. 

Real leadership consists of presenting 
your vision for America to the American 
people and then defending it. In so 
doing, Republicans and Democrats may 
discover that we have some common 
ground, that we are not enemies, but 
friends. Let us summon up, as we have 
before, the ‘‘better angels of our nature’’ 
and rededicate ourselves to the 
hard work of leadership. 

Washington is indeed broken. Let’s 
hurry up and fix it together. 

f 

PASS AMERICAN DREAM ACT 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. HINOJOSA) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. HINOJOSA. Mr. Speaker, it is 
with great sadness that I rise to urge 
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle 
to pass the American DREAM Act. 

This past weekend, I learned of the 
tragic death of Joaquin Luna, a senior 
student at Juarez Lincoln High School 
in Mission, Texas, who took his life because 
he believed that he would never 
be able to fulfill his dream of becoming 
an engineer, earning his citizenship, 
and leading a full and prosperous life in 
America. 

Brought to the United States as an 
infant, Joaquin attended our Nation’s 
public schools, played the guitar at his 
church, and hoped to go to college and 
achieve the American Dream. I cannot 
express the sorrow I feel on the loss of 
such a talented young man. I want to 
extend my heartfelt condolences to 
Joaquin’s family and friends. I cannot 
imagine the pain they are suffering. It 
is heartbreaking to know that many of 
us in the U.S. House of Representatives 
passed the DREAM Act at this time 
last year, only to see the legislation 
held up in the Senate by a vote of 55– 
41. 

Today, as Joaquin Luna’s body is laid 
to rest, I believe it is imperative to underscore 
the urgency of passing the 
DREAM Act in the 112th Congress and 
renewing hope for DREAM students. As 
a proud cosponsor of H.R. 1842, the Development, 
Relief, and Education for 
Alien Minors Act of 2011, better known 
as the DREAM Act, I urge President 
Obama and my colleagues in the House 
and the Senate to put their ideological 
differences aside and do what is right. 
Now more than ever, we must give 
these young people an opportunity to 
pursue their college and career goals, 
resolve their immigration status, and 
earn their citizenship. 

b 1040 

The DREAM Act would allow these 
students the opportunity to earn legal 
status if they were 15 years old or 
younger when they were brought to 
America, are long-term U.S. residents 
and have lived in the United States for 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8007 

at least 5 years before the enactment of 
the law, have good moral character, 
graduate from high school or obtain a 
GED, and complete 2 years of college or 
military service in good standing. 

Having been brought by their parents 
to the United States as children, these 
young men and women know America 
as their home. Without question, 
DREAM students exemplify the best of 
American ideals, such as hard work, 
perseverance, and the desire to contribute 
to our Nation’s workforce, 
economy, and civic life. 

In the Rio Grande Valley of south 
Texas, DREAM students have excelled 
in school and have become valedictorians, 
Advanced Placement Scholars, 
and student leaders, despite facing difficult 
circumstances. 

As ranking member for the Subcommittee 
on Higher Education and 
Workforce Training, I have no doubt 
that the DREAM students can help 
America achieve President Obama’s 
ambitious high school and college completion 
goals by the year 2020. Many of 
these students are working tirelessly 
to earn their high school and college 
diplomas and aspire to become professionals 
in the sectors of our workforce 
which need their talent, skills, and ingenuity. 


In the areas of science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics, better 
known as STEM, our country must 
train a new generation of high-skilled 
scientists, engineers, and mathematicians 
to bolster scientific discovery 
and spur technological innovation. 
Simply stated, these talented youth 
can help our Nation increase its global 
competitiveness and be the innovators 
of tomorrow. 

Finally, it’s important to note that the 
DREAM Act has enjoyed broad, bipartisan 
support from Members of Congress and Administration 
officials on both sides of the aisle. 
They include Secretary of Education Arne 
Duncan, former Secretary of Defense Robert 
Gates, Former Secretary of State Colin Powell, 
and Carlos Gutierrez, former Secretary of 
Commerce under President Bush. 

Chancellors and university presidents and 
thousands of students, civil rights groups, and 
prominent education, business, religious leaders, 
and elected officials support the DREAM 
Act because it is humane and sensible. It’s the 
right thing to do. 

f 

THE PLUNDER OF COLFAX 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. MCCLINTOCK) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. In the Sierra foothills 
in northeastern California lies the 
little town of Colfax, a population of 
1,800, with a median household income 
of about $35,000. Over the last several 
years, this little town has been utterly 
plundered by regulatory and litigatory 
excesses that have pushed this little 
town to the edge of bankruptcy and 
ravaged families already struggling to 
make ends meet. 
You see, Colfax operates a small 
wastewater treatment plant for its 

residents that discharges into the 
Smuthers Ravine. Because it does so, it 
operates within the provisions of the 
Clean Water Act, a measure adopted in 
1972 and rooted in legitimate concerns 
to protect our vital water resources. 
The problem is that predatory environmental 
law firms have now discovered 
how to take unconscionable advantage 
of that law to reap windfall profits at 
the expense of working-class families 
like the townspeople of Colfax. 

In the case of Colfax, an environmental 
law firm demanded every document 
pertaining to the water treatment 
plant from the date of its inception. 
It then pored over those documents 
looking for any possible violations, 
including mere paperwork errors. 
By law, those documents include 
self-monitoring reports by the water 
agency itself, and any violation, no 
matter how minor, establishes a cause 
of action for which the law provides no 
affirmative defense, even if the violation 
is due to factors completely beyond 
the local community’s control, 
including acts of God and acts by unrelated 
and uncontrollable third parties. 
Prove one such violation—and remember, 
the law allows for no affirmative 
defense—and you’ve just guaranteed 
the attorneys all of their fees, which in 
this case were billed at $550 per hour. 

As a result of this predatory activity, 
the town of Colfax is facing legal fees 
alone that exceed the town’s entire annual 
budget. Families that are struggling 
to keep afloat just above the poverty 
level are fleeced by attorneys 
charging $550 an hour. But that’s just 
part of the problem. 

The law requires constant upgrading 
of facilities to meet ever-changing 
state-of-the-art regulations that have 
nothing to do with health and safety 
and with absolutely no concern for the 
prohibitive costs involved. In fact, 
Colfax is now required to discharge 
water certifiably cleaner than the natural 
stream water into which it is discharged. 
In Colfax’s case, this required 
a $15 million expenditure, divided 
among 800 working-class residents, who 
are now paying $2,500 per year just for 
their water connections. And once the 
town has met the standard, there’s no 
guarantee that in 5 years it won’t be 
told, Sorry, the rules have changed and 
you’ll need to start over. 

Mr. Speaker, it’s time to restore 
some form of rationality back to this 
law and to stop the plunder of small 
towns like Colfax. And Colfax isn’t 
alone. Any community that operates a 
wastewater treatment plant is in the 
same jeopardy. 

No one disputes that we need to 
maintain and enforce sensible and cost-
effective protections of our precious 
water resources; but legitimate environmental 
protections must no longer 
be used as an excuse for regulatory extremism 
and litigatory plundering of 
our local communities. 

Today, I’m introducing legislation to 
offer six reforms to protect other communities 
from going through the same 
nightmare as the people of Colfax: 

First, to limit private-party lawsuits 
to issues of significant noncompliance 
rather than harmless paperwork errors; 

Second, to shield local agencies from 
liability for acts that are beyond their 
control; 

Third, to give local agencies 60 days 
to cure a violation before legal action 
can be initiated; 

Fourth, to allow communities to amortize 
the cost of new facilities over a 
period of 15 years before new requirements 
can be heaped on them; 

Fifth, to require a cost-benefit analysis 
before new regulations can be imposed; 


Sixth, to limit attorney fees to the 
prevailing fees of the community. 

Like many movements, the impetus 
for stronger environmental protection 
of our air and water was firmly rooted 
in legitimate concerns to protect these 
vital resources; but like so many movements, 
as it succeeded in its legitimate 
ends, it also attracted a self-interested 
constituency that has driven far past 
the borders of common sense and into 
the realms of political extremism and 
outright plunder. I’m hopeful that 
we’re now entering an era when common 
sense can be restored to environmental 
law in this session of the Congress. 


f 

PILOT FATIGUE RULE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. HIGGINS) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. HIGGINS. In February 2009, tragedy 
struck western New York when 
Continental Connection Flight 3407 
crashed outside of Buffalo. The National 
Transportation Safety Board 
found that one of the principal causes 
of the crash was pilot fatigue, so Congress 
passed landmark aviation legislation 
to reform the system. 
One of the key provisions required 
that the Federal Aviation Administration 
update flight and duty time rules 
and set minimum rest requirements for 
airline pilots by August 1, 2011. Congressional 
intent was clear. That 
should have been enough time. After 
all, the National Transportation Safety 
Board had urged that pilot fatigue 
rules be updated for the past 20 years. 
Getting it right is also about getting 
it done. Yet here we are today, 16 
months after Congress asked the Federal 
Aviation Administration to issue 
these reforms and 4 months past the 
deadline we gave them, and still no 
pilot fatigue rule. 

b 1050 
That is unacceptable to me, that is 
unacceptable to my colleagues from 
western New York, and it is unacceptable 
to the flying public. 
I urge the Federal Aviation Administration 
to complete the pilot fatigue 
rule immediately. 

f 

KEYSTONE XL PIPELINE SAFETY 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. OLSON) for 5 minutes. 


H8008 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, at a time 
when our Nation’s economy is struggling 
to recover from our deepest recession 
in which millions of Americans 
are looking for work, no one would believe 
that we would forgo an opportunity 
to reduce our reliance on Middle 
Eastern oil and create thousands of 
American jobs. 

Incredibly, that’s exactly what happened 
after the White House announced 
they would delay decision on approval 
of the Keystone XL pipeline until 2013, 
after the elections of November 2012. 
At a time when our President faced a 
difficult choice between opposing powers 
within his base—labor unions and 
radical environmentalists—he chose to 
punt rather than lead. 

Labor unions support construction of 
the Keystone XL pipeline because they 
understand this project has been 
deemed safe and will create 20,000 direct 
American jobs and thousands more 
indirect jobs across our Nation as the 
pipeline is built. But radical environmentalists 
and Hollywood activists vehemently 
oppose the project. In fact, 
they surrounded the White House in 
protest of the Keystone XL pipeline, 
claiming that the project is not environmentally 
safe. While these protesters 
made catchy headlines, their 
claims about the Keystone XL pipeline 
simply aren’t true. 

The Keystone XL project has been 
studied extensively for over 3 years, 
when TransCanada originally filed an 
application for a Presidential permit 
with the Department of State. The 
Presidential permit review process was 
conducted by the State Department, 
the Environmental Protection Agency, 
and many other agencies within the 
Federal Government. After 3 years of 
comprehensive review and several 
changes to the project to accommodate 
environmental concerns, the final report 
to the White House incorporated 
57 project-specific special conditions 
for the design, construction and operation 
of the Keystone XL pipeline. In 
simple terms, the Keystone XL pipeline 
was designed to be the safest pipeline 
the world has ever known. 

Here’s the truth why the Keystone 
XL pipeline promises to be the safest 
pipeline ever. As proposed, the Keystone 
XL pipeline will be monitored 24 
hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a 
year with the most advanced technologies. 
It will be buried at a deeper 
depth than similar pipelines to minimize 
risk. It will utilize multiple leak 
detection methods and failsafe shutoff 
systems, as well as having an emergency 
response program in place ready 
to respond if needed. 

Critics of the project further claim 
that the crude transported by the Keystone 
XL pipeline is highly corrosive 
‘‘toxic sludge.’’ This is a claim that can 
only come out of Hollywood, with no 
facts to support it. Independent analysis 
and sound science have determined 
these oils are not corrosive to steel. 
Canadian oil is already shipped safely 
across the United States via other Ca


nadian pipelines. Good old-fashioned 
common sense tells us that no company 
would try to destroy its own interest 
by spending billions to construct 
a pipeline system that is going to be 
eaten up by the very products it transports. 


I’ll wrap up my comments with the 
facts about the Keystone XL pipeline. 
This project has been exhaustively 
studied and revised to ensure its safety. 
Three years of grueling review and 
detailed analysis by multiple Federal 
Government agencies have concluded 
that construction and use of the Keystone 
pipeline is safe. In August, our 
Department of State recommended 
that President Obama approve the Keystone 
XL pipeline. 

Our economy is still teetering on recession. 
It needs to be strengthened; 
and we need a safe, reliable supply of 
energy to grow it. Canada can provide 
it. They want to provide it, thereby reducing 
our reliance on Middle Eastern 
oil and strengthening our national security 
because we have energy security 
as a result. 

Thousands of new jobs will be created 
to build this pipeline. Mr. Speaker, I 
urge the President to approve the Keystone 
XL pipeline now. 

f 

EXTENDING UNEMPLOYMENT 
COMPENSATION 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
New York (Mr. RANGEL) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. RANGEL. My colleagues, I once 
again rise asking that we immediately 
consider extending the Federal Unemployment 
Compensation Act. 

It seems as though I walked into this 
movie before, last year, and we were 
begging once again that we throw away 
the labels of being Democrat or Republican 
and reach out to make an appeal 
as to what makes this country different 
from other countries. 

This is the only country in the world 
that no one wants to leave and everyone 
wants to come in. And it’s not because 
of the differences we have with 
the rich and the poor. It’s that always 
in this country we extended hope. We 
allowed people to believe that they 
were never really truly alone. And then 
we find a circumstance that Americans, 
hardworking Americans are trying 
to fulfill that American Dream— 
once again not to become a Wall Street 
broker, and certainly not to be living a 
life of poverty, but to join that middle 
class that has been the engine for hope 
and economic advancement for our 
country. And we find this situation 
now that, through no fault of their 
own, these dreams have been shattered. 
People have not only lost their jobs, 
but they’ve lost their self-esteem, 
they’ve lost their savings, they have 
not been able to send their kids to college. 


And so what is it that we can do 
since it’s abundantly clear that in this 
Congress there is a gridlock? And we 
don’t want you to lose hope because 

there’s things that Americans can do. 
It’s not just waiting for this Congress 
to act, because you hold in your hands 
the power to control this Congress. 
And we should not have to wait until 
next year in order to say that you can 
express yourself at the polls. No indeed. 


Every Member of Congress—435 of us 
here—are anxiously waiting for your 
call, and I hope that call would be a 
call of compassion. It should be a call 
from our ministers, from our Catholics 
and Protestants and Jews and synagogues 
and Mormons and Muslims saying 
that in America we should not have 
the vulnerable carrying the pain of 
mistakes that have been made. We 
should be hearing from our civic leaders 
and our voters and calling Republicans, 
Democrats, and Independents 
saying we did not send you to Washington 
to display just what a good Republican 
you are or what a good Democrat 
you are. 

We should talk about this sign up 
here, ‘‘In God We Trust.’’ Doesn’t that 
mean something about taking care of 
the vulnerable, the unemployed, those 
without homes, without jobs and without 
hope? Doesn’t it mean that we have 
a tradition as Members of Congress? 
And doesn’t it mean that our voters 
have a responsibility not to just say 
how bad we are, but to say how good 
they are for making certain that 
they’re monitoring our conduct, not 
through a poll, but through our action. 

The question is, How did your Congressman 
vote on extending unemployment 
compensation? 

b 1100 

Rather than wait for the good or bad 
news, call now. Call today. Call every 
day this week. 

They’ll never have a Thanksgiving or 
a Christmas that they used to have, 
but they can’t give up hope. They can’t 
give in and they can’t give up. 

So I am saying for America, you 
don’t have to go and protest, even 
though I appreciate the fact that these 
courageous men and women are doing 
it. You don’t have to walk those civil 
rights marches. But you can at least 
get in touch with your Member of Congress, 
remind him or her of their constitutional 
responsibility, and remind 
them of their moral responsibility to 
the vulnerable among us, the sick, the 
aged, the unemployed, those that 
played by the rules, and we know have 
nothing to do with the situation they 
find themselves in economically. 

We can make a change, but it’s going 
to take the American people to come 
together and say they’re mad as hell 
and they’re not going to take it anymore. 


So let’s make an appeal that America 
takes the Congress back. Direct not 
ourselves to do things in order to get 
reelected but direct we do things because 
it’s the right thing to do. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8009 

HONORING THE LIFE OF LANCE 
CORPORAL SCOTT HARPER 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. WESTMORELAND) for 5 
minutes. 

Mr. WESTMORELAND. Mr. Speaker, 
I could not think of a more appropriate 
person to be in the Chair this morning 
than yourself, to me and to others, an 
American hero because, Mr. Speaker, 
today I come to the floor with a sadness 
but yet with a great sense of pride 
to honor the service of one of Georgia’s 
own, Lance Corporal Scott Harper. 

On October 13, in Helmand Province, 
Afghanistan, he gave the ultimate sacrifice 
in support of Operation Enduring 
Freedom and the protection of his 

homeland and his family and his 
friends. 
Mr. Speaker, he will be greatly 

missed by all. Lance Corporal Harper 
was better known to his close friends 
not as Scott but as Boots. While a student 
at Alexander High School, he once 
forgot his tennis shoes for gym class 
and kept his boots on instead. And on 
that day, Mr. Speaker, he learned the 
lasting nickname of Boots. But he also 
showed how he was prepared to adapt 
to all scenarios. 

When a Marine recruiter showed up 
at his high school senior year, Boots 
answered the call and chose a life of 
service in the United States Marine 
Corps with a courage and motivation 
that most young men his age have not 
yet found in life. 

After graduating high school, he 
went into active duty in the Marine 
Corps. Boots served one term in Afghanistan 
and returned safely home. 
He left on the second tour July 13, with 
the First Battalion, Sixth Marine Regiment, 
Second Marine Division. 

On October 13, his division was 
struck by small arms fire while conducting 
combat operations. A fellow 
Marine was shot first, and Boots ran 
into opposing gunfire to save his 
friend. Though Boots lost his life, he 
saved the life of his wounded friend in 
the process. Boots was always loyal as 
a friend, and there is no more honor 
that one can give than to lay down his 
life for another. 

Boots was devoted to his family and 
his community. Even when he only had 
a few days off, he would make time, 
that precious time, to come home and 
visit his family and friends. Though 
communication was difficult, Boots 
was always writing his family and 
called home as much as possible. The 
Saturday before he was killed, Boots 
called his father to say that he had decided 
to enroll at the University of 
Georgia when he returned home. 

Upon coming home for this final 
time, he arrived at Charlie Brown Airfield. 
Crowds from the community 
lined the streets to escort Boots to his 
final home, to his family and to his 
friends for the last time. Boots was accompanied 
by a Marine Corps Honor 
Guard, the Patriot Guard, the 
Douglasville Police Department, and 

the Douglas County Sheriff’s Department, 
among many others. 

Norfolk-Southern even stopped its 
railroad cars in honor of the procession. 
As they passed everyone stood 
and saluted to honor the fallen Marine 
and hometown hero. 

Boots embodied the ideals that the 
Marines strive to achieve. I am both 
honored and proud that this soldier 
from the Third District fought so hard 
for our country and for our freedom. 
Boots was a model citizen, soldier, and 
son. He was an extraordinary young 
man with incredible potential before 
him, and he will be forever missed. 

I am proud to stand here and thank 
him for sacrificing his life for strangers 
like me and my family. And Joan and 
I extend our sympathy to the family of 
this fallen hero for raising such a 
brave, courageous, honorable, giving 
son. 

And Boots, we, as a Nation, salute 
you today. Semper Fi. 

f 

LIFE WITHOUT HOPE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Missouri (Mr. CLEAVER) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, first, let 
me associate my comments with those 
of my colleague Mr. WESTMORELAND. 
Mr. Speaker, on each Wednesday 
night for probably the last 10 or 12 
years, our church has provided food for 
those who are struggling. Not long ago 
a gentleman came to our church, 
picked up food. And then later that 
night, as I was leaving the church, I 
ran into him at a 7-Eleven. You can 
imagine how troubled I was when I saw 
him buying a lottery ticket. I thought 
to myself, this guy has just ripped off 
the church and then is using his money 
for a lottery ticket. 
So I waited for him outside the 7-
Eleven. And when he came out, I said 
to him, Look, I’m a little concerned because 
you picked up a sack of groceries, 
and then you just spent money 
on a lottery, and those two just don’t 
match. 
And he said, Well, I probably 
shouldn’t have spent the money on the 
lottery, but you know, Reverend, a 
man’s got to have some hope. 
And while I think that hope is misplaced, 
the truth of the matter is he 
was absolutely correct. It is virtually 
impossible to live any kind of productive 
life on this planet without hope. 
There are millions of Americans who, 
unfortunately, cannot place their hope 
in this body. I think that I can state 
without fear of contradiction that the 
dysfunctionality of the United States 
Congress is helping to erase hope from 
the men and women in this country 
who are struggling. All of the back and 
forth and blaming each other has nothing 
to do with providing hope. And 
quite often, we allow ideology to trump 
logic. 
We decide almost every day that no 
matter what, I’m going to take the position 
of the Republicans or I’m going 

to take the position of the Democrats, 
and, as a result, we have polluted the 
public. 

This is one of the nastiest moments 
in U.S. history. Just look at television. 
Look at all of the so-called reality 
shows. The ones that are most popular 
are ones where people are doing things 
to each other or insulting each other; 
you’re fired, or you’ve got to eat live 
spiders. That’s what we are coming to. 

A perfect example of what we’re 
doing is not addressing the expiring unemployment 
benefits. At the end of 
this year, almost 2 million Americans—
they have names, they have 
faces, they have families—2 million 
Americans will lose their unemployment 
benefits by mid-February. 

b 1110 

A total of over 6 million Americans 
will lose benefits next year unless this 
body decides to become functional. In 
Missouri, my home State, 40,400 citizens 
depend on unemployment benefits. 
Many more are unemployed and not receiving 
any help at all. In Missouri, the 
unemployment rate is almost 9 percent. 


I grew up in public housing. Yes, public 
housing. My father worked three 
jobs to get us out, worked three jobs to 
send me and my three sisters through 
college. And my mother started college 
when I was in the 8th grade. So I always 
resent any implication that people 
don’t want to work. 

So as we move into a holiday season, 
a season of hope, my hope is that the 
Congress of the United States will not 
snatch hope from over 2 million Americans. 


f 

EUROPE BAILOUT 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. BURTON) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. BURTON. Mr. Speaker, no nation, 
no economy can survive without 
fiscal discipline. Printing more money 
is never the answer. Bailout funds have 
already been granted to Greece, Ireland, 
and Portugal; and the European 
crisis has gotten worse, not better. 

And here in the United States, the 
Obama administration has cranked up 
the printing presses first through their 
$800 billion stimulus boondoggle and 
then through the Federal Reserve’s 
Quantitative Easing Program. And 
what did it produce? Nine percent unemployment 
and a $1 trillion-plus 
budget deficit for the last 3 years, and 
we have $15 trillion in debt. 

I want to read from a couple of articles 
that were in the paper yesterday. 

The first one from The Wall Street 
Journal, and it’s entitled ‘‘Blame It on 
Berlin.’’ It says: ‘‘Berlin’s alleged sin is 
its reluctance to write a blank check 
to save the euro—either by underwriting 
a new euro zone fiscal union, or 
by granting permission for the European 
Central Bank to buy trillions of 
dollars in sovereign debt.’’ And they’d 
have to print money to do that. 


H8010 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

‘‘The chant comes in unison from the 
debtor nations themselves, the bailout 
caucus in Brussels. An Obama White 
House concerned with its re-election 
and liberal pundits worried about their 
welfare-state economic model is under 
assault. Like the ‘rich’ American who 
must pay their ‘fair share,’ the Germans 
are supposed to pay up to save a 
united Europe. 

‘‘The reality is that the Germans, 
along with the Dutch and the Finns, 
are the rare Europeans who understand 
that saving the euro requires more 
than a blank check. It requires a new 
political commitment to better economic 
policy to fiscal discipline.’’ 

Now let me read from another article 
that was in the paper. I think it was 
this morning in this Washington Post. 
I will read it in part. It says: ‘‘Investors 
have grown wary of lending money 
to European banks.’’ People who invest, 
they don’t want to invest in European 
banks because they’re worried 
that their firms could lose vast 
amounts of money in their holdings of 
bonds issued by cash or European governments. 
So investors don’t want to 
invest, and Germany does not want to 
invest.’’ 

So what happened? ‘‘The world’s 
most powerful central banks, including 
the United States,’’ our Fed, ‘‘are stepping 
in and using unlimited ability to 
print money and to lend it across national 
borders to try to arrest that 
dangerous cycle. The central banks are 
using what are called ‘swap lines’ to 
exchange their respective currencies.’’ 

And then it goes on in the article and 
says: ‘‘The swap lines pose little risk to 
the U.S. taxpayers. Fed officials have 
said, because’’—it says little risk, they 
didn’t say no risk, little risk—‘‘the 
swap lines pose little risk to the U.S. 
taxpayers’’ Federal officials have said 
because ‘‘the Fed is doing business 
with foreign central banks viewed as 
trustworthy. Those foreign central 
banks, in turn, take the risk of loss if 
the banks they’re lending to go under.’’ 
But it goes right up the line. If they 
can’t make it, then they go back to the 
original lender, which would be the 
United States Fed. 

Why are the Germans so reluctant to 
invest? Because they’ve been through 
hyperinflation. They know what it’s 
like to have the EU Central Bank 
printing money because they remember 
under the Weimar Republic after World 
War I people took baskets of money to 
go buy a loaf of bread. And why are the 
investors reluctant? Because they 
don’t want to lose their money. 
They’re afraid that they’ll lose their 
investors’ money and they might go 
out of business. 

So what happens? The United States 
comes to the rescue by bailing out the 
central banks in Europe by saying that 
we’re going to have a swap line with 
you and our currency will guarantee 
your currency, and we’ll charge you almost 
no interest to do that. This is an 
exercise in futility. That is not the answer. 


We should not risk the American taxpayer 
by giving money or lending 
money to Europe under these circumstances. 
It’s crazy, in my opinion. 

Mr. Speaker, I hope that the President 
and the Fed will reconsider this 
and not put us into the basket with the 
Europeans under these circumstances 
right now. It makes absolutely no 
sense, and it risks the American taxpayer. 


f 

UNEMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. At a time 
when Americans are not really deeply 
concerned about investors in European 
markets and what will happen to them 
upon Greece or Italy or somewhere like 
that going belly-up, most Americans 
are fixated on one problem, ladies and 
gentlemen. It’s a very personal problem. 
That problem is unemployment 
right here in America. 
Now, while we are pondering the difficulties 
that investors may face because 
of efforts to prop up central 
banks in Europe, people are hurting 
out here. People, including wives or 
husbands of unemployed spouses, are 
suffering. They’re suffering as we close 
in on the holiday season when they see 
so many out doing for their families 
and they themselves, having been unemployed, 
most of whom have been unemployed 
for at least 6 months, many 
for 2 years, they’re looking and they’re 
feeling this holiday spirit but in a bad 
way. They’re regretful of the fact that 
they’re not able to fully participate in 
this part of the American Dream doing 
for others, buying Christmas gifts. 
In fact, people are worried about 
whether or not their unemployment insurance 
will be there for them after the 
beginning of the year. They realize 
that they’re closing in on the cut-off 
date for expiration of the long-term unemployment 
benefits. And they’re worried 
about that, not about investors 
and how they might fare in terms of 
European countries not being fiscally 
solvent, allegedly. 
So, Mr. Speaker, every day it seems 
like I read another report from economists 
telling us how important it is to 
extend unemployment benefits to help 
our fragile economy recover. And 
there’s no doubt about helping millions 
of unemployed Americans during the 
worst downturn since the Great Depression, 
which was caused by the very 
investment bankers that have been discussed 
today that might be hurt because 
of European shenanigans. It’s 
mind-boggling. 
They are the ones that actually 
kicked this cesspool that we’re in off. 
And then they got bailed out, but 
they’re not willing to allow the very 
Tea Party, Grover Norquist Republican 
parties who they control, they’re not 
willing to let them extend unemployment 
insurance benefits for the long-
term unemployed unless there’s a penalty 
involved. 

b 1120 

They can’t bring themselves to fund 
it. They don’t want to do it. 

As the holidays near, economics 
should take a backseat to our basic humanity. 
What about our commitment 
to each other? We’re all in this together; 
but unfortunately, the 47 percent 
of millionaires who populate the 
House of Representatives don’t have 
that same concept of knowing what it 
is to hurt when you’ve been unemployed 
for such a long time and when 
money is not coming in. They don’t relate 
to that. We’ve got nearly 14 million 
unemployed workers, and about 
five workers are applying for each job 
that is available. So, for Congress to 
think about going home to celebrate 
the holidays with their families and 
leaving these people out with no hope 
is, indeed, a great tragedy. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO MRS. MAGGIE DALEY, 

FIRST LADY OF THE CITY OF 

CHICAGO 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. DAVIS) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. On Monday, 
November 28, 2011, the City of Chicago 
laid to rest the wife of Chicago’s longest 
serving mayor, Mayor Richard M. 
Daley. 

While Maggie Daley was known as 
the mayor’s wife, she was, indeed, a 
well-known, well-liked and revered personality 
in her own right. Maggie 
Daley played the role of matriarch. She 
was warm, graceful, elegant, eloquent, 
and easy to like. She was a patron of 
the arts and was fully steeped in the 
cultural affairs of our city. 

While Mrs. Daley has received accolades 
for many of her activities, the 
one which strikes me the most is her 
involvement in a program called After 
School Matters. I think that anyone 
who knows anything about education 
and youth development knows that, 
yes, after school does, indeed, matter. 
When discussing this program, you 
could see Maggie Daley’s eyes light up, 
and you could feel her passion. She 
seemed to know everything there was 
to know about the program. She knew 
program sites, personnel, special features 
and activities, benefits and successes. 
After a session of listening to 
Mrs. Daley explain and advocate for 
this program, I would often smile and 
say to myself, How could anyone not be 
in support of this great program? 

So I say thanks to a great lady—a 
lady of grace, a lady of dignity, a lady 
of passion, a lady of faith, and a lady of 
action. 

My family and I and residents of the 
Seventh Congressional District of Illinois 
express condolences to Mayor 
Richard M. Daley and to all of Maggie 
Daley’s family. She was a great first 
lady of our city and performed her role 
to perfection. After school does matter. 
It mattered to Mrs. Maggie Daley, and 
it matters to all of America. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8011 

EXTENDING UNEMPLOYMENT problem. As Members of Congress, we Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-

INSURANCE must move quickly to adopt a com-nal stands approved. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Alabama (Ms. SEWELL) for 5 minutes. 

Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, today I 
rise in support of workers, families, 
and middle class Americans across the 
Seventh Congressional District of Alabama 
and across this entire Nation 
who have lost their jobs as a result of 
the deepest economic recession since 
the Great Depression. 

In my district of the Seventh Congressional 
District of Alabama and 
across this Nation, the number one 
issue is job creation. While some 
progress has been made in turning our 
economy around, there is still so much 
work to be done in order to encourage 
job creation. Recent reports indicate 
that the Nation’s private employers 
created approximately 200,000 new jobs 
during November. While this number 
shows that our economy is slowly recovering 
and growing, we cannot forget 
about the millions of Americans who 
have been diligently searching for work 
but who have not been successful in 
doing so. 

Congress must extend unemployment 
benefits for the hardworking Americans 
who have lost their jobs due to no 
fault of their own—rather, due to the 
economic downturn. These workers 
should also be given the necessary assistance 
to provide for their families 
during this difficult time. Nearly one-
third of America’s 14 million unemployed 
have had no jobs for a year or 
more. In fact, long-term unemployment 
data suggests that about 2 million 
people have used up the 99 weeks 
of unemployment benefits, but they 
still cannot find work. 

Congress has never allowed emergency 
unemployment programs to expire 
when the unemployment rate has 
exceeded 7.2 percent. With our Nation’s 
unemployment rate hovering around 9 
percent, now is not the time to allow 
these essential benefits to expire. 

In my home State of Alabama, unemployment 
and poverty rates have both 
increased dramatically in the wake of 
the most recent recession. In parts of 
the district that I represent, unemployment 
rates are as high as 19 percent. 
These persistently high unemployment 
numbers demonstrate the need for Federal 
unemployment assistance, and it 
remains a critical lifeline to many of 
the constituents I represent. 

The Census Bureau states that unemployment 
benefits kept nearly 3.2 million 
Americans, including 900,000 children, 
from slipping into poverty last 
year. Without action, more than 2 million 
Americans will be cut off from unemployment 
insurance by mid-February 
of next year. The potential effects 
of this lapse in benefits would 
devastate millions of Americans and 
millions of households across this Nation. 


We all understand that extending 
these unemployment insurance benefits 
is a temporary fix to a much larger 

prehensive jobs plan that will aid businesses 
and communities in developing 
and growing. We must draft legislation 
that will promote an entrepreneurial 
climate and support American businesses 
globally. Now is the time that 
we must act. The American people 
want a comprehensive jobs plan. Until 
then, we have to extend unemployment 
benefits to help those millions of 
Americans who are desperately looking 
for work and can’t find it. 

I urge my colleagues to put partisanship 
aside. Party politics has no place 
when we’re talking about the betterment 
and advancement of our Nation. 
Unemployed Americans, struggling 
families and communities across this 
Nation cannot wait. We must act now. 

f 

RECESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair 
declares the House in recess until noon 
today. 

Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 28 
minutes a.m.), the House stood in recess 
until noon. 

f 

b 1200 

AFTER RECESS 

The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker at 
noon. 

f 

PRAYER 

Reverend Dr. Cathy C. Jones, 
Parkwood Institutional CME Church, 
Charlotte, North Carolina, offered the 
following prayer: 

Almighty God our Father, because of 
who You are and the glory that is revealed 
in Your only begotten Son, 
Jesus Christ, we praise Your Holy 
Name. 

Lord, Your Word declares ‘‘if any 
man lack wisdom, let him ask of God 
that giveth to all men liberally and 
upbraideth not; and it shall be given 
him.’’ 

We ask for Your unmerited favor 
upon the lives of every elected Member 
of the House of Representatives to provide 
the wisdom, knowledge, understanding, 
and courage that will allow 
their hearts to be filled with the principles 
of justice, loyalty, compassion, 
humility, and love so that we can continue 
to be united as one Nation under 
God. 

In the name of Him who is able to 
keep us from falling and present us 
faultless before the presence of His 
glory with exceeding joy. 

Amen. 

f 

THE JOURNAL 

The SPEAKER. The Chair has examined 
the Journal of the last day’s proceedings 
and announces to the House 
his approval thereof. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL) come 
forward and lead the House in the 
Pledge of Allegiance. 
Mr. PASCRELL led the Pledge of Allegiance 
as follows: 
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

WELCOMING REVEREND DR. 
CATHY C. JONES 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without 
objection, the gentleman from North 
Carolina (Mr. WATT) is recognized for 1 
minute. 

There was no objection. 

Mr. WATT. Mr. Speaker, I’m pleased 
to welcome Reverend Dr. Cathy C. 
Jones as the guest chaplain today for 
the United States House of Representatives. 
Since July, 2009, Dr. Jones has 
served as pastor of Parkwood Institutional 
CME Church, which is located in 
my congressional district in Charlotte, 
North Carolina. 

Reverend Dr. Jones is a native of 
Chatham County, North Carolina. She 
received her associates, bachelor’s, and 
master’s degrees from Justice Fellowship 
International Bible College in Raleigh, 
North Carolina. In May of 2010, 
she received her doctorate in Biblical 
Studies from Justice Fellowship Bible 
College in Jacksonville, North Carolina. 


Dr. Jones has been a pastor and 
served on different committees at the 
local and district levels during her 
time with the CME Church. She’s married 
to Theodore Jones and has been 
blessed with 7 children, 19 grandchildren, 
and 3 great grandchildren. 

On behalf of my constituents in the 
12th Congressional District and my colleagues 
here in the House, I thank her 
for her service to her community and 
for her prayer this morning. 

f 

COMMUNICATION FROM THE 
CLERK OF THE HOUSE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
WESTMORELAND) laid before the House 
the following communication from the 
Clerk of the House of Representatives: 

OFFICE OF THE CLERK, 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, December 1, 2011. 

Hon. JOHN A. BOEHNER, 

The Speaker, U.S. Capitol, House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: Pursuant to the permission 
granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II of 
the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
the Clerk received the following message 
from the Secretary of the Senate on December 
1, 2011 at 9:51 a.m.: 

That the Senate agreed to House amend


ment to Senate amendment H.R. 394. 

Appointments: 

National Commission for Review of Research 
and Development Programs of the 
United States Intelligence Community. 


H8012 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

With best wishes, I am 
Sincerely, 
KAREN L. HAAS. 

f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair will entertain up to 15 further requests 
for 1-minute speeches on each 
side of the aisle. 

f 

CARTEL INTRUSION INTO 
AMERICA 

(Mr. POE of Texas asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, according 
to The Washington Times, last 
December, five Mexican nationals 
armed with at least two AK–47 rifles 
were infiltrating the rugged desert— 
the American desert, that is. That’s 
right, Mr. Speaker. Cartel soldiers were 
reportedly on our side of the border in 
Arizona ‘‘patrolling in single-file formation’’ 
with the goal of ‘‘intentionally 
and forcibly assaulting’’ Border 
Patrol agents. 

They spotted and opened fire on four 

U.S. Border Patrol agents. Agent Brian 
Terry was murdered. Two cartel assault 
weapons found at the seen were 
connected to Operation Fast and Furious. 
Mr. Speaker, you recall that’s the 
operation where our government facilitated 
smuggling weapons to Mexican 
drug cartels—the enemies of Mexico 
and the United States. 
Military-type intrusions by the cartels 
will only increase. We need to defend 
our sovereignty and protect our 
Border Patrol and first responders. It’s 
time to send military equipment coming 
back from Iraq to secure the southern 
border from the cartel soldiers. 
This veteran equipment includes 
Humvees, night-vision equipment, and 
more UAVs. Incidents like this will 
only continue to occur until Washington 
elites realize what happens in 
Mexico doesn’t stay in Mexico. 

And that’s just the way it is. 

f 

PAYROLL TAX CUT AND UNEM


PLOYMENT BENEFITS EXTEN


SION 

(Mr. SIRES asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, with our 
economy struggling and unemployment 
remaining unacceptably high, now is 
not the time to take more money out 
of the pockets of hardworking Americans. 


The majority is opposing an extension 
of the payroll tax holiday, enacted 
earlier this year, that gave virtually 
all working Americans a much-needed 
tax cut. The payroll tax holiday cut 
the Social Security payroll taxes of 
over 160 million workers. Economic uncertainty 
both here in the U.S. and 
abroad makes this a dangerous time to 
eliminate an important tax cut that is 

saving American families an average of 
$1,000 a year. Failing to extend the payroll 
tax holiday will raise taxes on millions 
of Americans, taking over $120 
billion out of the pockets of consumers 
and out of the economy. In addition, 
failing to extend the unemployment insurance 
to those who have lost their 
jobs will take an additional $30 billion 
out of the economy and rob over a million 
unemployed Americans of much-
needed income and assistance. 

Now is not the time to end these important 
tax cuts, and it is certainly not 
the time to pull the plug on the unemployed 
in our economy. I encourage my 
colleagues to pass both of these provisions 
as swiftly as possible. 

f 

b 1210 

CROHN’S AND COLITIS 
AWARENESS WEEK 

(Mr. CRENSHAW asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, today 
is the first day of Crohn’s and Colitis 
Awareness Week. Crohn’s disease and 
ulcerative colitis are diseases that collectively 
are known as inflammatory 
bowel disease. They are painful; they 
are incurable; they attack the digestive 
system; and they affect about one 
out of every 200 people in our country. 

A few weeks ago, Congressman JACKSON 
and I formed the Crohn’s and Colitis 
Caucus to raise awareness in the 
Congress and to fight for additional 
Federal support, and Crohn’s and Colitis 
Awareness Week is part of that effort. 
Today we will file a House Resolution 
which will support this awareness 
week. And hopefully, as we work with 
the Crohn’s and Colitis Foundation of 
America, all Americans will use this 
week, this time to join in this fight to 
raise awareness to increase research 
and to find a cure for this debilitating 
disease. 

f 

CROHN’S AND COLITIS 
AWARENESS WEEK 

(Mr. JACKSON of Illinois asked and 
was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute.) 

Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise in support of a resolution my 
friend Congressman CRENSHAW and I introduced 
today supporting the goals 
and ideals of Crohn’s and Colitis 
Awareness Week, which begins today 
and runs through December 7, 2011. 

This resolution, which is identical to 
the Senate version adopted earlier this 
month, declares congressional support 
for Awareness Week, recognizes the patients 
living with Crohn’s disease and 
ulcerative colitis, and commends the 
dedication of health care professionals 
and biomedical researchers who care 
for these patients. 

Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis 
are chronic disorders of the gastrointestinal 
tract. Affecting an estimated 

1.4 million Americans, including 140,000 
children under the age of 18, IBD remains 
the most prominent factor in 
morbidity caused by digestive illness. 

Again, thank you to my caucus co-
chair for working with me on this important 
resolution, my colleagues who 
have joined as cosponsors, as well as 
the Crohn’s and colitis patients and 
their families, medical providers, and 
researchers for their advocacy. 

I urge my colleagues to cosponsor 
this resolution and join the bipartisan 
Congressional Crohn’s and Colitis Caucus, 
which advocates for enhanced patient 
care, treatment, and finding a 
cure for these debilitating diseases 
that impact both patients and their 
families. 

f 

OBAMA NEEDS TO FOCUS ON JOB 
CREATION 

(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina 
asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, for the past 21/2 years, our Nation’s 
unemployment rate has risen 
over 8 percent. The President continually 
develops policies that discourage 
and prohibit small businesses from creating 
jobs. 

Just last month, the administration 
announced the delay of the Keystone 
XL pipeline, a project estimated to create 
over 300,000 jobs without costing 
taxpayers a dime. I was fortunate 
enough to visit Alberta, Canada in October 
and witnessed firsthand the Canadian 
oil sands and the positive impact 
that exploration has for new 
American jobs. 

At the end of this legislative week, 
House Republicans will have passed 25 
job-creation bills. Sadly, they are 
stalled in the Senate. With a growing 
debt of over $15 trillion, it is absolutely 
necessary for Congress and the President 
to work together to promote job 
creation and ways to remove barriers 
to allow for small businesses to create 
jobs. 

In conclusion, God bless our troops, 
and we will never forget September the 
11th in the global war on terrorism. 

f 

RECOGNIZING POP WARNER 
LITTLE SCHOLARS 

(Mr. MCINTYRE asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. MCINTYRE. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize the Pop Warner Little 
Scholars program, our Nation’s oldest 
and largest youth football, cheer 
and dance organization. 

Currently, more than 400,000 children 
participate in Pop Warner organizations 
that span 43 States, Scotland, 
Germany, Russia, Japan, and Mexico. 
The NFL Players Association estimates 
that Pop Warner has been the 
career starting point for 70 percent of 
its current athletes. 

It has a long history of promoting 
structured athletics and instilling the 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8013 

qualities of sportsmanship, hard work, 
and leadership in young athletes. It’s 
the only national youth sports organization 
to require academic proficiency, 
and it annually awards more than 
$110,000 in scholarships. It’s also a leader 
in making youth sports safe, including 
its work on concussion-related injuries 
and a medical advisory board to 
remain proactive on player health and 
safety. 

This Saturday, December 3, Pop Warner 
will kick off its Super Bowl and 
National Cheer and Dance Championship 
at ESPN’s Wide World of Sports 
complex in Orlando. This week-long 
competition will feature participation 
from more than 12,000 athletes and will 
be broadcasted on ESPN3. 

I want to extend our congratulations, 
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the U.S. Congress, 
to this excellent, well-recognized, 
and well-organized program for 
young people here in America on behalf 
of the Congressional Caucus on Youth 
Sports. 

f 

STOP EXCESSIVE REGULATION 
NOW 

(Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio asked and 
was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and 
extend his remarks.) 

Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, 
one thing is certain: Excessive government 
regulations are hurting America’s 
economy and strangling job creation. 


Just this year, new regulations cost 
our economy almost $100 billion, and 
this is just the cost of new regulations 
this year. The Small Business Administration 
estimates that regulations cost 
our economy approximately $1.75 trillion 
annually. This is unacceptable. 

With over 14 million Americans out 
of work, we can’t afford these excessive 
government regulations. But instead of 
creating jobs, President Obama would 
rather create more regulations that 
kill jobs and burden small businesses. 

Now, House Republicans have done 
the exact opposite. As part of the 
House Republican Plan for America’s 
Job Creators, we’re fighting to reduce 
the regulatory burdens to empower 
small businesses to create jobs. We’ve 
passed over 20 bills that will create 
much needed jobs right now. 

President Obama and Senate Democrats 
need to work for job creation, not 
against it, because the people of eastern 
and southeastern Ohio and all 
Americans deserve better. 

f 

DELAYED PILOT FATIGUE RULE 

(Ms. HOCHUL asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Ms. HOCHUL. Mr. Speaker, despite 
what you might hear in this body, I believe 
that there are some regulations 
that we all can support. 

The National Traffic Safety Board 
concluded that pilot fatigue contributed 
to the crash of Continental Air


lines Flight 3407, which crashed into a 
house in my district, killing 50 innocent 
victims nearly 3 years ago. The 
legislation passed by this body in response 
to this crash mandated new 
pilot fatigue guidelines to be implemented 
by August 1 of this year. That 
date came and went. Then we were told 
November 22. Then we were told November 
30. Those days have come and 
gone. 

The families of these victims have 
worked tirelessly for a resolution to 
make sure a tragedy like this never 
happens again. The millions of Americans 
who fly our skies every year are 
counting on us for regulations to ensure 
their safety. Let’s not let them 
down. 

f 

TEXAS VALLEY COASTAL BEND 

HEALTH CARE SYSTEM GOLD 

SEAL 

(Mr. FARENTHOLD asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. FARENTHOLD. In November, 
the VA outpatient clinic in Harlingen, 
Texas, earned the Joint Commission’s 
Gold Seal of Approval. This award recognizes 
facilities that comply with the 
Joint Commission’s national standards 
for health care quality and safety in 
ambulatory care, behavioral health 
care, and home care. 

There is no way we can adequately 
express our thanks to those who serve 
this country, but we must welcome 
them home and make sure they have 
access to the benefits and services that 
they have earned. 

Our servicemen and -women deserve 
quality health care. The Texas Valley 
Coastal Bend Health Care System has 
earned this distinction because they 
demonstrate a commitment to meeting 
the health care needs of all south 
Texas veterans. 

My staff and I are passionate about 
helping veterans. South Texas is one of 
the most military and veteran-friendly 
places in the country, and I will work 
hard to ensure that the servicemembers 
and families receive the support 
that they deserve. 

While south Texas is served by great 
outpatient facilities, we are in desperate 
need of a full-service VA hospital. 
I’m the cosponsor of two bills, 

H.R. 1318 and H.R. 837, that direct the 
VA to bring full-service, inpatient care 
facilities to south Texas. 
f 

POSTDEPLOYMENT COGNITIVE 
TESTING 

(Mr. PASCRELL asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, as co-
chair of the Congressional Brain Injury 
Task Force, one of my top priorities is 
to help our servicemembers with brain 
injuries. With posttraumatic stress disorder 
and traumatic brain injury recognized 
as the signature injuries of the 
conflicts and wars in Iraq and Afghani


stan, you would think the Defense Department 
would have a good system to 
catch the injuries. They do not. 

Despite our vote, a bipartisan vote in 
2008 to have pre- and postdeployment 
screenings, postdeployment screenings 
have not been required. Five hundred 
thousand soldiers with a 
predeployment cognitive test were 
given that test before they went to the 
battle. Coming out, only 3,000 tests 
were done postdeployment to actually 
compare results. We have nothing to 
compare. This is a disgrace and a disservice 
to our troops. 

Both sides have agreed that we want 
something done. It has not been done 
in violation of the law. The Pascrell-
Platts-Andrews-Cole-Ortiz-Wilson-Coffman 
amendment passed in the House 
Defense authorization bill to address 
this, but it was not included in the 
final bill. That’s what we’re trying to 
do this year. 

f 

b 1220 

PASS THESE JOBS BILLS 
(Mr. DESJARLAIS asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 
Mr. DESJARLAIS. Mr. Speaker, my 
constituents are rightfully fed up. 
President Obama has managed to create 
an economy where the only things 
that are growing are power in Washington, 
debt for our children and 
grandchildren, a lack of confidence for 
job creators, and the number of unemployed 
Americans. 
When it comes to creating an environment 
to help the private sector create 
jobs, the difference between House 
Republicans and Senate Democrats is 
the difference between action and inaction. 
This year, under the House Republicans’ 
Plan for America’s Job Creators, 
we have passed more than 25 pro-
growth job bills. These bipartisan bills 
are aimed at restoring the freedom and 
confidence of job creators by breaking 
down the barriers preventing them 
from growing and creating badly needed 
jobs. Yet 21 of these bipartisan 
House-passed job bills are stuck in the 
Senate because Senate Majority Leader 
HARRY REID continues to put politics 
before jobs. 
It’s time for the Senate Democrat 
leadership to join our fight for America 
and put them back to work. Pass these 
jobs bills. 

f 

PASS THE EXTENSION OF 
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS 

(Ms. TSONGAS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Ms. TSONGAS. Mr. Speaker, I have 
heard from many struggling families in 
Massachusetts who simply don’t know 
how they will make ends meet if Congress 
does not pass an extension of unemployment 
benefits before January 1. 

From Lowell: I am a 58-year-old man 
that has been unemployed for 2 years 


H8014 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

and 4 months. Finding a job these days 
is just about impossible. I am writing 
to you to beg you to please sign on to 
the unemployment extension bill. 

From Westford: I have been unemployed 
since January of 2010. I look for 
a job every waking hour. Cutting unemployment 
to millions of needy families 
at this time makes no sense. 

From Haverhill: If my unemployment 
ends, I will be unable to make my 
mortgage payments. Then my home 
will go into foreclosure and my neighbors’ 
home values will be depreciated. 
This is truly a ripple effect. Please 
don’t be penny wise and pound foolish. 

I urge my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle to work to pass this desperately 
needed extension. 

f 

HELP OUR ECONOMY GROW 
(Mr. YODER asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. YODER. Mr. Speaker, the American 
people are calling on government 
to help the economy grow, but apparently 
Washington still hasn’t gotten 
the message. The onslaught of new government 
burdens on the economy have 
become unbearable; yet Federal regulators 
pile on more and more. So far 
this week alone, the Federal Register 
has over 1,799 pages of new rules and 
regulations facing our Nation’s small 
business owners. 
Mr. Speaker, complex and burdensome 
regulations drive up the cost of 
doing business and, therefore, drive up 
unemployment. A great example is the 
EPA’s new Cross State Air Pollution 
Rule. This rule, to be imposed by January 
1, will not only cause rolling 
brownouts in places like Kansas, but 
will dramatically drive up the cost of 
energy production, increasing the costs 
of doing business and, therefore, putting 
more people out of work. 
Mr. Speaker, if both parties are serious 
about job creation in this country, 
then we must put a stop to the constant 
attacks on those who create jobs. 

f 

HONORING THE SERVICE OF DR. 
MILTON GORDON 

(Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California 
asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 minute and 
to revise and extend her remarks.) 

Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. 
Mr. Speaker, today I rise to 
honor the president of California State 
University at Fullerton, Dr. Milton 
Gordon, and to recognize his upcoming 
retirement. 

For over two decades, Dr. Gordon’s 
outstanding commitment to higher 
education has let California State University 
at Fullerton become one of the 
largest and one of the most inclusive 
institutions in our Nation. Because of 
Dr. Gordon’s vision and commitment 
for greater cultural diversity in higher 
education, the university currently 
ranks ninth in the Nation in bachelor’s 

degrees awarded to minority students. 
And additionally, it ranks number one 
in California among colleges and universities 
awarding bachelor’s degrees 
to Hispanics. 

Dr. Gordon’s caring, articulate, and 
collegial nature created a sense of 
pride among the faculty, the staff and 
students advocating for excellence in 
all aspects of university life. 

It has been an honor for me to work 
with Dr. Gordon. He has been a mentor; 
he has been a shining light in Orange 
County. And I congratulate him on all 
his awards and distinctions, and I look 
forward to his next career. We hope to 
reel him in to continue to work on our 
community. Thank you, Dr. Gordon. 

f 

THE SILENT EPIDEMIC OF FOOD 
INSECURITY AND HUNGER 

(Mr. BUTTERFIELD asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I 
want to bring attention to a silent epidemic 
growing in our midst. Right 
alongside long-term unemployment, 
the increases in poverty and food 
prices, homelessness and the steep decline 
in household incomes is now the 
shocking rate of food insecurity and 
hunger. 

According to the USDA, there are 46 
million Americans surviving on food 
stamps. While Congress considers reductions 
to food stamp funding, the 
USDA predicts that the number of people 
requiring food assistance will substantially 
increase. 

Last week, in my district in North 
Carolina, which ranks second in the 
country for food insecurity, I greeted 
thousands of people lined up outside of 
the Wilson OIC and the food bank of 
the Albemarle food distribution centers 
to collect bags of food for the Thanksgiving 
holiday. 

Mr. Speaker, to help remedy the 
challenges to food security, I introduced 
H.R. 3437, the Eva Clayton Fellows 
Program Act. This legislation 
would enable the development of solutions 
to world hunger and confront 
food insecurity head on. 

Food insecurity is not a partisan 
issue. I urge my colleagues to join me 
in this fight. 

f 

IN HONOR OF NANCY COOK’S 
SERVICE TO DELAWARE 

(Mr. CARNEY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. CARNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize a remarkable 
woman and to honor her decades of 
service to the State of Delaware. 
Former State Senator Nancy Cook has 
been a leader in strengthening Delaware 
agriculture and our economy for 
the past 40 years. 

Senator Cook has been an irrepressible 
leader since becoming Delaware’s 
first female Democratic senator in 1974. 
For 36 years, Senator Cook served with 

distinction on the Senate Agriculture 
Committee, where she accomplished so 
much for Delaware farmers. Recently, 
a legislator remarked that agriculture 
had no better friend in the Delaware 
Senate than this lady, and I couldn’t 
agree more. 

In 1991 Senator Cook helped create 
the Aglands Preservation Program, 
which has preserved over 20 percent of 
Delaware’s farm land. In 1999 she 
helped establish Delaware’s landmark 
Nutrient Management Program. The 
program is now a role model for the entire 
region in the effort to manage animal 
waste responsibly and protect precious 
bays and waterways. 

I would like to thank the Delaware 
Farm Bureau for its decision to honor 
Senator Cook with the Distinguished 
Service to Agriculture Award, and to 
join the bureau in celebrating an incredible 
leader for Delaware. 

Congratulations to my good friend, 
Senator Cook. 

f 

STOP STALLING ON THE CON


SUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION 

BUREAU 

(Mr. PRICE of North Carolina asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.) 

Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, opponents of financial regulatory 
reform in the Senate continue 
to prevent the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau from fulfilling its 
legislative mandate. 

The CFPB has been open since July 
21, but it’s taken 3 months for the Senate 
Banking Committee to advance 
President Obama’s nominee for the director 
of the bureau, Richard Cordray, 
to the full Senate. Now, continuing 
their strategy of partisan obstructionism, 
44 Republican Senators have 
pledged to oppose any Presidential appointee 
for the CFPB, until the bureau’s 
mandate is weakened. 

Such naked obstructionism is a disservice 
to American consumers and the 
American economy, which is in bad 
need of certainty after a year of artificial 
crises fomented by the Tea Party-
dominated Republican Party. 

The American people are sick of a 
dysfunctional Congress. We need the 
CFPB at full strength to move our 
economy forward, protect borrowers 
and consumers, and promote the interests 
of Main Street over Wall Street. 

I call on the Senate to confirm Richard 
Cordray as director of the Con


sumer Financial Protection Bureau 
now. 
f 
b 1230 

REPUBLICAN’S FEAR OF DR. 
BERWICK 

(Mr. MCDERMOTT asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. MCDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow’s 
a sad day. Don Berwick, Dr. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8015 

Berwick, will step down as Administrator 
of Medicare. It’s a bad day for 
seniors. 

But the Senate Republicans are 
happy because they believe that getting 
rid of Don will end the implementation 
of the Affordable Care Act. 
When the Senate Republicans blocked 
a vote on Dr. Berwick, they made it 
possible only for a recess appointment 
for 18 months. Why do the Republicans 
fear Dr. Berwick so much? Hard to say. 

His career has been spent improving 
the quality of health care. He believes 
that we can have good quality health 
care at low cost. They’re synonymous. 
He put patients first, believing in evidence-
based medicine, and collaborates 
with others in the public good. 

His sin was that he once said a nice 
word about the British health care system, 
and therefore he has to go. 

Dr. Berwick’s a great public servant, 
and the Republicans demonized him. 
Republicans have cynically prevented 
America’s seniors from having the benefit 
of Dr. Berwick’s vision and experience, 
and they ought to be ashamed of 
themselves. 

We will do the Affordable Care Act in 
spite of the fact that Dr. Berwick is 
gone. 

f 

MIDDLE CLASS PAYROLL TAX CUT 
(Ms. HAHN asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Ms. HAHN. Mr. Speaker, yesterday I 
came down here on the floor, and I 
asked my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle to work with us to move forward 
on a new middle class payroll tax 
cut, a tax cut that would put more 
money in families’ pockets, creating 
more demand for our businesses, and 
resulting in more jobs. 
But time and time again yesterday, 
even this morning we heard my friends 
on the other side of the aisle say the 
only obstacle to creating more jobs is 
regulations. 
Unfortunately, the evidence does not 
support this. Last Saturday, November 
26, was Small Business Saturday. I did 
my part by shopping all day in small 
businesses, and I talked to my small 
businesses, and I asked them what did 
they need from the Federal Government 
to help them in their businesses. 
And they told me, ‘‘We need customers. 
That’s what will help our businesses. 
We need customers who have a little 
more money in their pockets this year 
to spend in our businesses.’’ 
It’s not rocket science. And you 
know what? We don’t have much time 
to wait. The longer we wait, the more 
likely it is that taxes will go up January 
1. Let’s work together to pass a 
new middle class payroll tax cut to put 
more money in the hands of Americans. 


f 

WORLD AIDS DAY 
(Ms. PELOSI asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, today 
across the globe, people are marking 
World AIDS Day. It’s an opportunity to 
reflect upon the progress we’ve made in 
the fight against HIV/AIDS, this pandemic, 
and to rededicate ourselves to 
ending the disease once and for all. 

World AIDS Day is an occasion to remember 
friends, family members, loved 
ones, and millions of others lost to the 
disease. It is a solemn reminder of 
those still living with HIV/AIDS, 
whether in the cities of the United 
States, or the villages of Africa, Asia, 
or elsewhere. It is a reminder of the 
need to continue the fight to keep investing 
in research and medical advances, 
to stay focused on new treatments, 
care, prevention, and early 
intervention—a key element of quality 
of life; to expand housing opportunities 
to people with HIV/AIDS and end discrimination. 


Yet it’s also a reminder of how far 
we’ve traveled since the first World 
AIDS Day in 1988 and the first AIDS diagnosis, 
which we acknowledged recently 
on the 30-year anniversary of 
the first AIDS diagnosis. 

In my hometown of San Francisco, 
we learned early on of the terrible toll 
of HIV/AIDS, the toll it could take on 
a community. 

But that knowledge, as sad as it was, 
drove us to action, advocacy, and 
progress. Because we had suffered so 
much, we could also become a model 
for the country and indeed the world 
with our community-based solutions in 
regard to prevention, to care, and to 
research for a cure or vaccine. 

This is something I’m very proud of, 
and really it found its way into legislation: 
the Ryan White Care Act; housing 
opportunities for people with HIV/ 
AIDS; increased funding for NIH research; 
expanded investments in prevention, 
care, treatment; and an end to 
the ban on Federal funds for syringe 
exchange. Something very important if 
you’re going to prevent AIDS. 

Beyond our borders, we have extended 
care to millions in the developing 
world. Early on in our community, 
when we would have an AIDS mobilization 
day, right almost from the 
start—and Congresswoman WOOLSEY 
can attest to this—we understood if 
you’re going to meet the challenge of 
HIV/AIDS at home, you have to have a 
mobilization that is global because 
AIDS knew no borders, but it had to be 
global. 

So we would have these vigils of 
thousands of people walking in a great 
solemn way to talk about ending AIDS 
globally almost right from the start, 
although we were feeling it very personally, 
very locally in our community. 
Beyond our borders—that’s why 
we extended care to millions in the developing 
world. We increased resources 
for PEPFAR and the Global Fund. And 
I commend President Bush for his leadership 
on PEPFAR and the commitment 
that he made there. 

I congratulate President Obama for 
the statement that he made this morn


ing which increased funding for the 
Ryan White Care Initiative that supports 
care provided by HIV medical 
clinics across the country and also 
added funding for the drug program initiative 
for people with HIV/AIDS, and 
his commitment to a new target of 
helping 6 million people around the 
world get treatment by the end of 2013. 
It’s very important. 

I commend Secretary Clinton for her 
strong leadership and her statement 
about ridding AIDS, especially among 
children, as soon as possible. 

The challenges that we have faced 
over the years, some have disappeared. 
When I first came to Congress, I was 
sworn in in a special election, and they 
told me you’re not allowed to speak. 
You just raise your hand and say, ‘‘Yes, 
I support and defend the Constitution.’’ 

But then the Speaker, Speaker 
Wright, said, ‘‘Would the gentlelady 
from California wish to address the 
House?’’ I had been told not to address 
the House, and if I did, to be very, very 
brief. So I stood up and acknowledged 
my father, Thomas D’Alesandro, had 
served as a Member of Congress, so he 
was on the floor of the Congress, and 
my family, and I thanked them all and 
my constituents. My one sentence was, 
‘‘I came here to fight against HIV and 
AIDS.’’ And that was about it. 

Well, my colleagues who had told me 
to be brief then said, ‘‘Why would you 
even mention that?’’ This was 24 years 
ago. ‘‘Why would you even mention 
that? The first thing that you want to 
say to the Members of Congress when 
you get here is you’re here to fight 
HIV/AIDS? Why did you say such a 
thing?’’ 

I said, ‘‘Well, I said such a thing because 
that’s why I came here.’’ 

But I never would have thought 24 
years ago that we would project—really 
into another generation now—that 
we would not have a cure for HIV/ 
AIDS. Never would have thought. 

But in the meantime, we’ve reduced 
discrimination. We’ve expanded prevention, 
care, deepened our research, 
actually mobilized support. Some, like 
Bono on the outside, using his celebrity 
to attract attention to the issue. 
Public policy, whether it’s President 
Bush, President Clinton. And now with 
this global initiative, and President 
Obama, we’re at a completely different 
place than we were then when they 
wouldn’t even have an AIDS ribbon in 
significant places in Washington, D.C. 
Today we all proudly wear that ribbon. 

Again, it’s a day of reminder, but it’s 
also a day where we act upon those reminders 
of the work that needs to be 
done. And again, it’s a global challenge, 
but it is a very personal issue. 

The statistics are staggering, but we 
think of them one person at a time. 
And that is what we have to act upon. 
This Congress has been great on the 
subject. I hope that we will continue to 
honor our responsibility. 

Again, on AIDS Day in San Francisco 
today we are celebrating the 20th anniversary 
of AIDS Memorial Grove. 


H8016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

b 1240 

This is something that this Congress 
designated as a national memorial. 
This is of great significance to our 
community, for sure—I think very appropriately 
so—and also for the issue of 
AIDS. So, when you go West, you have 
to go to the AIDS memorial and see it 
as a spirit of renewal—a garden, a 
grove—always with that fresh, new 
growth. We have it as a remembrance, 
too, of those who have been lost and as 
a comfort to their families. 

With that, again, Mr. Speaker, I join 
others in calling to our colleagues’ attention 
and to those who follow Congress 
the importance of fighting HIV/ 
AIDS as well as its importance to people, 
to communities, to our country, 
and to the world for our good health, 
for our economy, for the success of individuals. 


f 

OUR MAGGIE 

(Mr. QUIGLEY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, Maya 
Angelou wrote: ‘‘If you find it in your 
heart to care for somebody else, you 
will have succeeded.’’ 

On Thanksgiving night, Chicago lost 
a matriarch who, by Ms. Angelou’s 
measure, was a magnificent success. 
We, sadly, lost Margaret Corbett 
Daley, or as she was better known, 
‘‘our Maggie.’’ 

Maggie Daley embodied the heart of 
our city and grace under fire even when 
her own health was failing. Her contribution 
to the arts and our children, 
most notably through the After School 
Matters program, changed countless 
lives; and it will continue to do so for 
generations. 

When Maggie was laid to rest this 
week, it wasn’t just dignitaries who 
came to pay respects. Thousands of 
regular Chicagoans lined up for blocks 
in the rain to say goodbye. That’s because 
Maggie transcended politics and 
reminded us that nothing is more important 
than family and each other. 

She is, of course, survived by her best 
friend and husband, former Mayor 
Richard M. Daley, as well as by her 
loving children, grandchildren, and 
friends. 

May she rest in peace and never be 
forgotten. 

f 

WORLD AIDS DAY 

(Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.) 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. I rise 
today in commemoration, Mr. Speaker, 
of World AIDS Day; and I thank our 
minority leader for her eloquent recounting 
of how far we have come. 

In our best days, we can look to my 
dear friend Magic Johnson, who has 
been a living example of the improvements 
and the courage of those who are 
living with the HIV infection; but we 

recognize that, of the 15 million people 
medically recommended for antiretroviral 
medication worldwide, only 
half of them have access to drug treatment. 


In the United States, nearly one in 
five people with HIV, or 240,000 people, 
don’t even know that they are infected. 
Communities of color and young gay 
and bisexual men face the most severe 
burden of HIV in the United States— 
Magic Johnson, on one hand, and my 
dying friend on another hand being at 
the bedside of a person dying with 
AIDS, who, one, lived with the stigma 
and didn’t have a way out. 

Today, I will join others and be tested 
for the HIV virus, and I encourage 
others to do so. 

I congratulate my constituents, the 
Harris County Hospital District and 
the Thomas Street Clinic, for their 
12th annual World AIDS Day. 

Thank you, Mr. President, for recognizing 
that 6 million more people need 
to have access to AIDS prevention 
drugs. 

To those who have lost their lives, 
may I say to you on this day that your 
life that was lost should not be in vain. 
We still look for a cure, and we work 
for a better Nation and an opportunity 
to provide resources to those around 
the world and in the United States who 
still suffer. It is our challenge. We accept 
that challenge, and I believe 
someday we will be victorious. 

To those who commemorate this day 
because they mourn, I commemorate it 
with you in your mourning. For those 
who celebrate life, I, likewise, celebrate 
life. 

f 

TERMINATING PRESIDENTIAL 
ELECTION CAMPAIGN FUND AND 
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION 


Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to House Resolution 477, I call up the 
bill (H.R. 3463) to reduce Federal spending 
and the deficit by terminating taxpayer 
financing of presidential election 
campaigns and party conventions and 
by terminating the Election Assistance 
Commission, and ask for its immediate 
consideration in the House. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 477, the bill is 
considered read. 

The text of the bill is as follows: 

H.R. 3463 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

TITLE I—TERMINATION OF TAXPAYER FI


NANCING OF PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION 

CAMPAIGNS 

SECTION 101. TERMINATION OF TAXPAYER FI


NANCING OF PRESIDENTIAL ELEC


TION CAMPAIGNS. 

(a) TERMINATION OF DESIGNATION OF INCOME 
TAX PAYMENTS.—Section 6096 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection: 
‘‘(d) TERMINATION.—This section shall not 
apply to taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2010.’’. 

(b) TERMINATION OF FUND AND ACCOUNT.— 
(1) TERMINATION OF PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION 
CAMPAIGN FUND.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 95 of subtitle H 
of such Code is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 9014. TERMINATION. 

‘‘The provisions of this chapter shall not 
apply with respect to any presidential election 
(or any presidential nominating convention) 
after the date of the enactment of this 
section, or to any candidate in such an election.’’. 


(B) TRANSFER OF EXCESS FUNDS TO GENERAL 
FUND.—Section 9006 of such Code is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection: 
‘‘(d) TRANSFER OF FUNDS REMAINING AFTER 
TERMINATION.—The Secretary shall transfer 
all amounts in the fund after the date of the 
enactment of this section to the general fund 
of the Treasury, to be used only for reducing 
the deficit.’’. 

(2) TERMINATION OF ACCOUNT.—Chapter 96 of 
subtitle H of such Code is amended by adding 
at the end the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 9043. TERMINATION. 

‘‘The provisions of this chapter shall not 
apply to any candidate with respect to any 
presidential election after the date of the enactment 
of this section.’’. 

(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) The table of sections for chapter 95 of 
subtitle H of such Code is amended by adding 
at the end the following new item: 
‘‘Sec. 9014. Termination.’’. 

(2) The table of sections for chapter 96 of 
subtitle H of such Code is amended by adding 
at the end the following new item: 
‘‘Sec. 9043. Termination.’’. 

TITLE II—TERMINATION OF ELECTION 
ASSISTANCE COMMISSION 
SEC. 201. TERMINATION OF ELECTION ASSISTANCE 
COMMISSION. 

(a) TERMINATION.—The Help America Vote 
Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 15301 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new 
title: 
‘‘TITLE X—TERMINATION OF COMMISSION 

‘‘Subtitle A—Termination 
‘‘SEC. 1001. TERMINATION. 

‘‘Effective on the Commission termination 
date, the Commission (including the Election 
Assistance Commission Standards 
Board and the Election Assistance Commission 
Board of Advisors under part 2 of subtitle 
A of title II) is terminated and may not 
carry out any programs or activities. 

‘‘SEC. 1002. TRANSFER OF OPERATIONS TO OF


FICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 

DURING TRANSITION. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget shall, effective 
upon the Commission termination 
date— 

‘‘(1) perform the functions of the Commission 
with respect to contracts and agreements 
described in subsection 1003(a) until 
the expiration of such contracts and agreements, 
but shall not renew any such contract 
or agreement; and 

‘‘(2) shall take the necessary steps to wind 
up the affairs of the Commission. 

‘‘(b) EXCEPTION FOR FUNCTIONS TRANSFERRED 
TO OTHER AGENCIES.—Subsection (a) 
does not apply with respect to any functions 
of the Commission that are transferred 
under subtitle B. 

‘‘SEC. 1003. SAVINGS PROVISIONS. 

‘‘(a) PRIOR CONTRACTS.—The termination 
of the Commission under this subtitle shall 
not affect any contract that has been entered 
into by the Commission before the 
Commission termination date. All such contracts 
shall continue in effect until modified, 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8017 

superseded, terminated, set aside, or revoked 
in accordance with law by an authorized 
Federal official, a court of competent jurisdiction, 
or operation of law. 

‘‘(b) OBLIGATIONS OF RECIPIENTS OF PAYMENTS.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The termination of the 
Commission under this subtitle shall not affect 
the authority of any recipient of a payment 
made by the Commission under this 
Act prior to the Commission termination 
date to use any portion of the payment that 
remains unobligated as of the Commission 
termination date, and the terms and conditions 
that applied to the use of the payment 
at the time the payment was made shall continue 
to apply. 

‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR STATES RECEIVING 
REQUIREMENTS PAYMENTS.—In the case of a 
requirements payment made to a State 
under part 1 of subtitle D of title II, the 
terms and conditions applicable to the use of 
the payment for purposes of the State’s obligations 
under this subsection (as well as any 
obligations in effect prior to the termination 
of the Commission under this subtitle), and 
for purposes of any applicable requirements 
imposed by regulations promulgated by the 
Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, shall be the general terms and conditions 
applicable under Federal law, rules, 
and regulations to payments made by the 
Federal government to a State, except that 
to the extent that such general terms and 
conditions are inconsistent with the terms 
and conditions that are specified under part 
1 of subtitle D of title II or section 902, the 
terms and conditions specified under such 
part and such section shall apply. 

‘‘(c) PENDING PROCEEDINGS.— 

‘‘(1) NO EFFECT ON PENDING PROCEEDINGS.— 
The termination of the Commission under 
this subtitle shall not affect any proceeding 
to which the Commission is a party that is 
pending on such date, including any suit to 
which the Commission is a party that is 
commenced prior to such date, and the applicable 
official shall be substituted or added as 
a party to the proceeding. 

‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF ORDERS.—In the case of 
a proceeding described in paragraph (1), an 
order may be issued, an appeal may be 
taken, judgments may be rendered, and payments 
may be made as if the Commission 
had not been terminated. Any such order 
shall continue in effect until modified, terminated, 
superseded, or revoked by an authorized 
Federal official, a court of competent 
jurisdiction, or operation of law. 

‘‘(3) CONSTRUCTION RELATING TO DISCONTINUANCE 
OR MODIFICATION.—Nothing in 
this subsection shall be deemed to prohibit 
the discontinuance or modification of any 
proceeding described in paragraph (1) under 
the same terms and conditions and to the 
same extent that such proceeding could have 
been discontinued or modified if the Commission 
had not been terminated. 

‘‘(4) REGULATIONS FOR TRANSFER OF PRO-
CEEDINGS.—The Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget may issue regulations 
providing for the orderly transfer of 
proceedings described in paragraph (1). 

‘‘(d) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Orders and actions 
of the applicable official in the exercise of 
functions of the Commission shall be subject 
to judicial review to the same extent and in 
the same manner as if such orders and actions 
had been issued or taken by the Commission. 
Any requirements relating to notice, 
hearings, action upon the record, or administrative 
review that apply to any function 
of the Commission shall apply to the exercise 
of such function by the applicable official. 


‘‘(e) APPLICABLE OFFICIAL DEFINED.—In 
this section, the ‘applicable official’ means, 

with respect to any proceeding, order, or action— 


‘‘(1) the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, to the extent that the proceeding, 
order, or action relates to functions 
performed by the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget under section 1002; 
or 

‘‘(2) the Federal Election Commission, to 
the extent that the proceeding, order, or action 
relates to a function transferred under 
subtitle B. 

‘‘SEC. 1004. COMMISSION TERMINATION DATE. 

‘‘The ‘Commission termination date’ is the 
first date following the expiration of the 60-
day period that begins on the date of the enactment 
of this subtitle. 

‘‘Subtitle B—Transfer of Certain Authorities 

‘‘SEC. 1011. TRANSFER OF ELECTION ADMINIS


TRATION FUNCTIONS TO FEDERAL 

ELECTION COMMISSION. 

‘‘There are transferred to the Federal Election 
Commission (hereafter in this section 
referred to as the ‘FEC’) the following functions 
of the Commission: 

‘‘(1) The adoption of voluntary voting system 
guidelines, in accordance with part 3 of 
subtitle A of title II. 

‘‘(2) The testing, certification, decertification, 
and recertification of voting system 
hardware and software by accredited laboratories, 
in accordance with subtitle B of title 
II. 

‘‘(3) The maintenance of a clearinghouse of 
information on the experiences of State and 
local governments in implementing voluntary 
voting system guidelines and in operating 
voting systems in general. 

‘‘(4) The development of a standardized format 
for reports submitted by States under 
section 102(c) of the Uniformed and Overseas 
Citizens Absentee Voting Act, and the making 
of such format available to States and 
units of local government submitting such 
reports, in accordance with section 703(b). 

‘‘(5) Any functions transferred to the Commission 
under section 801 (relating to functions 
of the former Office of Election Administration 
of the FEC). 

‘‘(6) Any functions transferred to the Commission 
under section 802 (relating to functions 
described in section 9(a) of the National 
Voter Registration Act of 1993). 

‘‘(7) Any functions of the Commission 
under section 1604(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (Public 
Law 107–107; 115 Stat. 1277; 42 U.S.C. 1977ff 
note) (relating to establishing guidelines and 
providing technical assistance with respect 
to electronic voting demonstration projects 
of the Secretary of Defense). 

‘‘(8) Any functions of the Commission 
under section 589(e)(1) of the Military and 
Overseas Voter Empowerment Act (42 U.S.C. 
1973ff–7(e)(1)) (relating to providing technical 
assistance with respect to technology pilot 
programs for the benefit of absent uniformed 
services voters and overseas voters). 

‘‘SEC. 1012. EFFECTIVE DATE. 

‘‘The transfers under this subtitle shall 
take effect on the Commission termination 
date described in section 1004.’’. 

(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
contents of such Act is amended by adding at 
the end the following: 
‘‘TITLE X—TERMINATION OF 
COMMISSION 

‘‘Subtitle A—Termination 

‘‘Sec. 1001. Termination. 
‘‘Sec. 1002. Transfer of operations to Office 

of Management and Budget dur


ing transition. 
‘‘Sec. 1003. Savings provisions. 
‘‘Sec. 1004. Commission termination date. 

‘‘Subtitle B—Transfer of Certain Authorities 
‘‘Sec. 1011. Transfer of election administration 
functions to Federal Election 
Commission. 
‘‘Sec. 1012. Effective date.’’. 

SEC. 202. REPLACEMENT OF STANDARDS BOARD 

AND BOARD OF ADVISORS WITH 

GUIDELINES REVIEW BOARD. 

(a) REPLACEMENT.—Part 2 of subtitle A of 
title II of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 
(42 U.S.C. 15341 et seq.) is amended to read as 
follows: 
‘‘PART 2—GUIDELINES REVIEW BOARD 
‘‘SEC. 211. ESTABLISHMENT. 

‘‘There is established the Guidelines Review 
Board (hereafter in this part referred to 
as the ‘Board’). 
‘‘SEC. 212. DUTIES. 

‘‘The Board shall, in accordance with the 
procedures described in part 3, review the 
voluntary voting system guidelines under 
such part. 
‘‘SEC. 213. MEMBERSHIP. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall be composed 
of 82 members appointed as follows: 

‘‘(1) One State or local election official 
from each State, to be selected by the chief 
State election official of the State, who shall 
take into account the needs of both State 
and local election officials in making the selection. 


‘‘(2) 2 members appointed by the National 
Conference of State Legislatures. 

‘‘(3) 2 members appointed by the National 
Association of Secretaries of State. 

‘‘(4) 2 members appointed by the National 
Association of State Election Directors. 

‘‘(5) 2 members appointed by the National 
Association of County Recorders, Election 
Administrators, and Clerks. 

‘‘(6) 2 members appointed by the Election 
Center. 

‘‘(7) 2 members appointed by the International 
Association of County Recorders, 
Election Officials, and Treasurers. 

‘‘(8) 2 members appointed by the United 
States Commission on Civil Rights. 

‘‘(9) 2 members appointed by the Architectural 
and Transportation Barrier Compliance 
Board under section 502 of the Rehabilitation 
Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 792). 

‘‘(10) The chief of the Voting Section of the 
Civil Rights Division of the Department of 
Justice or the chief’s designee. 

‘‘(11) The director of the Federal Voting 
Assistance Program of the Department of 
Defense. 

‘‘(12) The Director of the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology or the Director’s 
designee. 

‘‘(13) 4 members representing professionals 
in the field of science and technology, of 
whom— 

‘‘(A) one each shall be appointed by the 
Speaker and the minority leader of the 
House of Representatives; and 

‘‘(B) one each shall be appointed by the 
majority leader and the minority leader of 
the Senate. 

‘‘(14) 4 members representing voter interests, 
of whom— 

‘‘(A) one each shall be appointed by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives; and 

‘‘(B) one each shall be appointed by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of 
the Senate. 

‘‘(b) MANNER OF APPOINTMENTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Appointments shall be 
made to the Board under subsection (a) in a 
manner which ensures that the Board will be 
bipartisan in nature and will reflect the various 
geographic regions of the United States. 

‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN APPOINTMENTS.—
The 2 individuals who are appointed 


H8018 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

as members of the Board under each of the 
paragraphs (2) through (9) of subsection (a) 
may not be members of the same political 
party. 

‘‘(c) TERM OF SERVICE; VACANCY.—Members 
of the Board shall serve for a term of 2 years, 
and may be reappointed. Any vacancy in the 
Board shall be filled in the manner in which 
the original appointment was made. 

‘‘(d) EXECUTIVE BOARD.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days 
after the day on which the appointment of 
its members is completed, the Board shall 
select 9 of its members to serve as the Executive 
Board of the Guidelines Review Board, 
of whom— 

‘‘(A) not more than 5 may be State election 
officials; 

‘‘(B) not more than 5 may be local election 
officials; and 

‘‘(C) not more than 5 may be members of 
the same political party. 

‘‘(2) TERMS.—Except as provided in paragraph 
(3), members of the Executive Board of 
the Board shall serve for a term of 2 years 
and may not serve for more than 3 consecutive 
terms. 

‘‘(3) STAGGERING OF INITIAL TERMS.—Of the 
members first selected to serve on the Executive 
Board of the Board— 

‘‘(A) 3 shall serve for 1 term; 

‘‘(B) 3 shall serve for 2 consecutive terms; 
and 

‘‘(C) 3 shall serve for 3 consecutive terms, 
as determined by lot at the time the members 
are first appointed. 

‘‘(4) DUTIES.—The Executive Board of the 
Board shall carry out such duties of the 
Board as the Board may delegate. 

‘‘(e) BYLAWS; DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.— 
The Board may promulgate such bylaws as it 
considers appropriate to provide for the operation 
of the Board, including bylaws that 
permit the Executive Board to grant to any 
of its members the authority to act on behalf 
of the Executive Board. 

‘‘SEC. 214. POWERS; NO COMPENSATION FOR 
SERVICE. 

‘‘(a) HEARINGS AND SESSIONS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To the extent that funds 
are made available by the Federal Election 
Commission, the Board may hold such hearings 
for the purpose of carrying out this Act, 
sit and act at such times and places, take 
such testimony, and receive such evidence as 
the Board considers advisable to carry out 
this title, except that the Board may not 
issue subpoenas requiring the attendance 
and testimony of witnesses or the production 
of any evidence. 

‘‘(2) MEETINGS.—The Board shall hold a 
meeting of its members— 

‘‘(A) not less frequently than once every 2 
years for purposes selecting the Executive 
Board and voting on the voluntary voting 
system guidelines referred to it under section 
222; and 

‘‘(B) at such other times as it considers appropriate 
for purposes of conducting such 
other business as it considers appropriate 
consistent with this title. 

‘‘(b) INFORMATION FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES.—
The Board may secure directly from 
any Federal department or agency such information 
as the Board considers necessary 
to carry out this Act. Upon request of the 
Executive Board, the head of such department 
or agency shall furnish such information 
to the Board. 

‘‘(c) POSTAL SERVICES.—The Board may use 
the United States mails in the same manner 
and under the same conditions as a department 
or agency of the Federal Government. 

‘‘(d) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES.— 
Upon the request of the Executive Board, the 
Administrator of the General Services Administration 
shall provide to the Board, on a 
reimbursable basis, the administrative sup


port services that are necessary to enable 
the Board to carry out its duties under this 
title. 

‘‘(e) NO COMPENSATION FOR SERVICE.—Members 
of the Board shall not receive any compensation 
for their service, but shall be paid 
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
subsistence, at rates authorized for employees 
of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 
57 of title 5, United States Code, while away 
from their homes or regular places of business 
in the performance of services for the 
Board. 
‘‘SEC. 215. STATUS OF BOARD AND MEMBERS FOR 

PURPOSES OF CLAIMS AGAINST 

BOARD. 

‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The provisions of chapters 
161 and 171 of title 28, United States 
Code, shall apply with respect to the liability 
of the Board and its members for acts or 
omissions performed pursuant to and in the 
course of the duties and responsibilities of 
the Board. 

‘‘(b) EXCEPTION FOR CRIMINAL ACTS AND 
OTHER WILLFUL CONDUCT.—Subsection (a) 
may not be construed to limit personal liability 
for criminal acts or omissions, willful 
or malicious misconduct, acts or omissions 
for private gain, or any other act or omission 
outside the scope of the service of a member 
of the Board.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) MEMBERSHIP ON TECHNICAL GUIDELINES 
DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.—Section 221(c)(1) 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 15361(c)(1)) is amended— 
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
clauses (i) and (ii) and inserting the following: 
‘‘(i) Members of the Guidelines Review 
Board.’’; 

(B) by redesignating clause (iii) of subparagraph 
(A) as clause (ii); and 
(C) in subparagraph (D), by striking 
‘‘Standards Board or Board of Advisors’’ and 
inserting ‘‘Guidelines Review Board’’. 
(2) CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSED GUIDELINES.—
Section 222(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
15362(b)) is amended— 
(A) in the heading, by striking ‘‘BOARD OF 
ADVISORS AND STANDARDS BOARD’’ and inserting 
‘‘GUIDELINES REVIEW BOARD’’; and 
(B) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘(2) GUIDELINES REVIEW BOARD.—The Executive 
Director of the Commission shall submit 
the guidelines proposed to be adopted 
under this part (or any modifications to such 
guidelines) to the Guidelines Review 
Board.’’. 

(3) REVIEW OF PROPOSED GUIDELINES.—Section 
222(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 15362(c)) is 
amended by striking ‘‘the Board of Advisors 
and the Standards Board shall each review’’ 
and inserting ‘‘the Guidelines Review Board 
shall review’’. 
(4) FINAL ADOPTION OF PROPOSED GUIDELINES.—
Section 222(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
15362(d)) is amended by striking ‘‘the Board 
of Advisors and the Standards Board’’ each 
place it appears in paragraphs (1) and (2) and 
inserting ‘‘the Guidelines Review Board’’. 
(5) ASSISTANCE WITH NIST REVIEW OF TESTING 
LABORATORIES.—Section 231(c)(1) of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 15371(c)(1)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘the Standards Board and the Board 
of Advisors’’ and inserting ‘‘the Guidelines 
Review Board’’. 
(6) ASSISTING FEC WITH DEVELOPMENT OF 
STANDARDIZED FORMAT FOR REPORTS ON ABSENTEE 
BALLOTS OF ABSENT UNIFORMED SERVICES 
AND OVERSEAS VOTERS.—Section 703(b) of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1973ff–1 note) is amended 
by striking ‘‘the Election Assistance Commission 
Board of Advisors and the Election 
Assistance Commission Standards Board’’ 
and inserting ‘‘the Guidelines Review 
Board’’. 
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
contents of such Act is amended by amending 
the item relating to part 2 of subtitle A 
of title II to read as follows: 
‘‘PART 2—GUIDELINES REVIEW BOARD 
‘‘Sec. 211. Establishment. 
‘‘Sec. 212. Duties. 
‘‘Sec. 213. Membership. 
‘‘Sec. 214. Powers; no compensation for service. 
‘‘Sec. 215. Status of Board and members for 
purposes of claims against 
Board.’’. 

(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the 
Commission termination date described in 
section 1004 of the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (as added by section 201(a)). 
SEC. 203. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO 
TRANSFER OF CERTAIN AUTHORITIES 
TO FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION. 


(a) DEVELOPMENT AND ADOPTION OF VOLUNTARY 
VOTING SYSTEM GUIDELINES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Part 3 of subtitle A of 
title II of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 
(42 U.S.C. 15361 et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 223. TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY TO FEDERAL 
ELECTION COMMISSION. 

‘‘(a) TRANSFER.—Effective on the Commission 
termination date described in section 
1004, the Federal Election Commission (hereafter 
in this section referred to as the ‘FEC’) 
shall be responsible for carrying out the duties 
and functions of the Commission under 
this part. 

‘‘(b) ROLE OF STAFF DIRECTOR.—The FEC 
shall carry out the operation and management 
of its duties and functions under this 
part through the Office of the Staff Director 
of the FEC.’’. 

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
contents of such Act is amended by adding at 
the end of the item relating to part 3 of subtitle 
A of title II the following: 
‘‘Sec. 223. Transfer of authority to Federal 
Election Commission.’’. 

(b) TESTING, CERTIFICATION, DECERTIFICATION, 
AND RECERTIFICATION OF VOTING SYSTEM 
HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B of title II of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 15371 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 232. TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY TO FEDERAL 
ELECTION COMMISSION. 

‘‘(a) TRANSFER.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Effective on the Commission 
termination date described in section 
1004, the Federal Election Commission 
(hereafter in this section referred to as the 
‘FEC’) shall be responsible for carrying out 
the duties and functions of the Commission 
under this subtitle. 

‘‘(2) ROLE OF STAFF DIRECTOR.—The FEC 
shall carry out the operation and management 
of its duties and functions under this 
subtitle through the Office of the Staff Director 
of the FEC. 

‘‘(b) TRANSFER OF OFFICE OF VOTING SYSTEM 
TESTING AND CERTIFICATION.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There are transferred to 
the FEC all functions that the Office of Voting 
System Testing and Certification of the 
Commission (hereafter in this section referred 
to as the ‘Office’) exercised under this 
subtitle before the Commission termination 
date. 

‘‘(2) TRANSFER OF PROPERTY, RECORDS, AND 
PERSONNEL.— 

‘‘(A) PROPERTY AND RECORDS.—The contracts, 
liabilities, records, property, appropriations, 
and other assets and interests of 
the Office, together with the unexpended balances 
of any appropriations or other funds 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8019 

available to the Office, are transferred and 

made available to the FEC. 

‘‘(B) PERSONNEL.— 

‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The personnel of the Office 
are transferred to the FEC, except that 
the number of full-time equivalent personnel 
so transferred may not exceed the number of 
full-time equivalent personnel of the Office 
as of January 1, 2011. 

‘‘(ii) TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES AT TIME OF 
TRANSFER.—An individual who is an employee 
of the Office who is transferred under 
this section shall not be separated or reduced 
in grade or compensation because of the 
transfer during the 1-year period that begins 
on the date of the transfer.’’. 

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
contents of such Act is amended by adding at 
the end of the items relating to subtitle B of 
title II the following: 
‘‘Sec. 232. Transfer of authority to Federal 
Election Commission.’’. 

(c) DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDIZED FORMAT 
FOR REPORTS ON ABSENTEE BALLOTING BY 
ABSENT UNIFORMED SERVICES VOTERS AND 
OVERSEAS VOTERS.—Section 703(b) of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1973ff–1 note) is amended by 
adding at the end the following: ‘‘Effective 
on the Commission termination date described 
in section 1004, the Federal Election 
Commission shall be responsible for carrying 
out the duties and functions of the Commission 
under this subsection.’’. 
SEC. 204. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO OTHER 
LAWS. 

(a) FEDERAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN ACT OF 
1971.— 
(1) DUTIES OF FEC.—Section 311(a) of the 
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 
U.S.C. 438(a)) is amended— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph 
(8); 
(B) by striking the period at the end of 
paragraph (9) and inserting a semicolon; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following new 
paragraphs: 
‘‘(10) provide for the adoption of voluntary 
voting system guidelines, in accordance with 
part 3 of subtitle A of title II of the Help 
America Vote Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 15361 et 
seq.); 

‘‘(11) provide for the testing, certification, 
decertification, and recertification of voting 
system hardware and software by accredited 
laboratories, in accordance with subtitle B of 
title II of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 
(42 U.S.C. 15371 et seq.); 

‘‘(12) maintain a clearinghouse of information 
on the experiences of State and local 
governments in implementing voluntary voting 
system guidelines and in operating voting 
systems in general; 

‘‘(13) carry out the duties described in section 
9(a) of the National Voter Registration 
Act of 1993; 

‘‘(14) develop a standardized format for reports 
submitted by States under section 
102(c) of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens 
Absentee Voting Act, make such format 
available to States and units of local government 
submitting such reports, and receive 
such reports in accordance with section 
102(c) of such Act, in accordance with section 
703(b) of the Help America Vote Act of 2002; 

‘‘(15) carry out the duties described in section 
1604(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (Public 
Law 107–107; 115 Stat. 1277; 42 U.S.C. 1977ff 
note); and 

‘‘(16) carry out the duties described in section 
589(e)(1) of the Military and Overseas 
Voter Empowerment Act (42 U.S.C. 1973ff– 
7(e)(1)).’’. 

(2) AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO PRIVATE 
CONTRACTS TO CARRY OUT FUNCTIONS.—Section 
311 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 438) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection: 
‘‘(g) Subject to applicable laws, the Commission 
may enter into contracts with private 
entities to carry out any of the authorities 
that are the responsibility of the Commission 
under paragraphs (10) through (16) of 
subsection (a).’’. 

(3) LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE REQUIREMENTS 
ON STATES AND UNITS OF LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT.—Section 311 of such Act (2 
U.S.C. 438), as amended by paragraph (2), is 
further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection: 
‘‘(h) Nothing in paragraphs (10) through 

(16) of subsection (a) or any other provision 
of this Act shall be construed to grant the 
Commission the authority to issue any rule, 
promulgate any regulation, or take any 
other actions that imposes any requirement 
on any State or unit of local government, except 
to the extent that the Commission had 
such authority prior to the enactment of 
this subsection or to the extent permitted 
under section 9(a) of the National Voter Registration 
Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 1973gg–7(a)).’’. 
(b) NATIONAL VOTER REGISTRATION ACT OF 
1993.—Section 9(a) of the National Voter 
Registration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 1973gg– 
7(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘Election Assistance 
Commission’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal 
Election Commission’’. 
(c) UNIFORMED AND OVERSEAS CITIZENS ABSENTEE 
VOTING ACT.— 
(1) DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDS FOR STATE 
REPORTS.—Section 101(b)(11) of the Uniformed 
and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1973ff(b)(11)) is amended by 
striking ‘‘the Election Assistance Commission’’ 
and inserting ‘‘the Federal Election 
Commission’’. 
(2) RECEIPT OF REPORTS ON NUMBER OF ABSENTEE 
BALLOTS TRANSMITTED AND RECEIVED.—
Section 102(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1973ff–1(c)) is amended by striking ‘‘the Election 
Assistance Commission (established 
under the Help America Vote Act of 2002)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘the Federal Election Commission’’. 
(d) ELECTRONIC VOTING DEMONSTRATION 
PROJECTS FOR SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.—Section 
1604(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (Public 
Law 107–107; 115 Stat. 1277; 42 U.S.C. 1977ff 
note) is amended by striking ‘‘the Election 
Assistance Commission’’ and inserting ‘‘the 
Federal Election Commission’’. 
(e) TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAM FOR ABSENT 
MILITARY AND OVERSEAS VOTERS.—Section 
589(e)(1) of the Military and Overseas 
Voter Empowerment Act (42 U.S.C. 1973ff– 
7(e)(1)) is amended by striking ‘‘Election Assistance 
Commission’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal 
Election Commission’’. 
(f) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the 
Commission termination date described in 
section 1004 of the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (as added by section 201(a)). 
SEC. 205. OTHER CONFORMING AMENDMENTS 
RELATING TO TERMINATION. 

(a) HATCH ACT.—Section 7323(b)(2)(B)(i)(I) 
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ‘‘or the Election Assistance Commission’’. 
(b) SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE.—Section 
3132(a)(1)(C) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ‘‘or the Election Assistance 
Commission’’. 
(c) INSPECTOR GENERAL ACT OF 1978.—Section 
8G(a)(2) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by striking 
‘‘the Election Assistance Commission,’’. 
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the 
Commission termination date described in 
section 1004 of the Help America Vote Act of 
2002 (as added by section 201(a)). 
SEC. 206. STUDIES. 

(a) PROCEDURES FOR ADOPTION AND MODIFICATION 
OF VOLUNTARY VOTING SYSTEM 
GUIDELINES.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Comptroller General shall 
conduct a study of the procedures used to 
adopt and modify the voluntary voting system 
guidelines applicable to the administration 
of elections for Federal office, and shall 
develop recommendations on methods to improve 
such procedures, taking into account 
the needs of persons affected by such guidelines, 
including State and local election officials, 
voters with disabilities, absent military 
and overseas voters, and the manufacturers 
of voting systems. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General shall submit a report to 
Congress on the study conducted under paragraph 
(1), and shall include in the report the 
recommendations developed under such 
paragraph. 
(b) PROCEDURES FOR VOTING SYSTEM TESTING 
AND CERTIFICATION.— 
(1) STUDY.—The Federal Election Commission 
shall conduct a study of the procedures 
for the testing, certification, decertification, 
and recertification of voting system hardware 
and software used in elections for Federal 
office, and shall develop a recommendation 
on the entity that is best suited to oversee 
and carry out such procedures, taking 
into consideration the needs of persons affected 
by such procedures, including State 
and local election officials, voters with disabilities, 
absent military and overseas voters, 
and the manufacturers of voting systems. 
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Federal Election Commission shall submit a 
report to Congress on the study conducted 
under paragraph (1), and shall include in the 
report the recommendation developed under 
such paragraph. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Mississippi (Mr. HARPER) 
and the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. BRADY) each will control 30 minutes. 


The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Mississippi. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in which to 
revise and extend their remarks and to 
include materials on H.R. 3463. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Mississippi? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

To begin, I would like to thank the 
chairman of the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. HALL), for his continued 
assistance in ensuring these important 
matters are considered by the 
House. He has been a helpful partner. 

Mr. Speaker, we live in uncertain 
times—with job creation stifled by 
crushing debt. But there are two things 
I am certain of: the necessity of cutting 
unnecessary spending and the fact 
that H.R. 3463 is a simple and straightforward 
way to do just that. H.R. 3463 
cuts unnecessary spending in two ways: 

First, it ends the taxpayer financing 
of Presidential election campaigns and 
party conventions, a program growing 


H8020 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

less and less popular for both taxpayers 
and candidates. Second, H.R. 3463 terminates 
the Election Assistance Commission, 
an obsolete government agency 
originally intended to sunset in 2005. 

Every Federal program, including 
these, is there because someone thinks 
it is a good idea; but if we do not eliminate 
some programs, then a $15 trillion 
debt will just be the starting point of 
our decline into a European-style fiscal 
crisis. Everyone talks about tough 
choices, and we have to make them. 
Frankly, these choices aren’t even very 
tough. They are about as easy as we’re 
going to find. 

Since 1976 American taxpayers have 
spent $1.5 billion in funding Presidential 
primary campaigns, Presidential 
election campaigns, and national 
party conventions. My colleague 
from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE) has been a 
leader in trying to end those campaign 
subsidies, and I am pleased to work 
with him today to continue that effort. 

When the taxpayer financing of political 
campaigns and conventions was 
adopted, proponents said it would improve 
the public’s trust in their government, 
clean up our politics, and increase 
the competitiveness of political 
campaigns. Sadly, it has failed on all 
counts. Now we find that more and 
more candidates are opting out of the 
system altogether. The Federal Election 
Commission has just this week 
confirmed that no Presidential candidate 
to date has opted to participate 
for the 2012 election. 

Mr. Speaker, we are talking about 
eliminating a program that literally no 
candidate is currently using or preparing 
to use at this point. That includes 
President Obama, who in 2008 famously 
became the first Presidential 
candidate ever to decline to participate 
in both the primary and general election 
phases of the program. 

It’s not just the candidates who don’t 
like it. As this chart indicates, support 
from Americans overall is dramatically 
low for this program. Since peaking in 
1980, the percentage of taxpayers opting 
to participate has declined from a 
high of 28.7 percent to 7 percent. 

It’s obviously something that needs 
to be done away with. That means that 
93 percent of American taxpayers 
choose not to participate. They refuse 
to subsidize political campaigns. Who 
can blame them? It’s bad enough that 
they have to watch campaign commercials, 
but they shouldn’t have to pay 
for them with taxpayer dollars as well. 
The money designated by a check-off 
on tax returns is diverted from those 
taxpayers’ payments into this program 
so that every other taxpayer has to 
make up the difference in revenue to 
the Treasury. The 93 percent of taxpayers 
who do not participate have to 
make up for the money spent by the 
current 7 percent who do. 

Mr. Speaker, eliminating this system 
will save taxpayers an estimated $447 
million over 5 years and will immediately 
return nearly $200 million to 
the Treasury. This is sensible and long 
overdue. 

b 1250 

Also long overdue is the elimination 
of the Election Assistance Commission. 
The EAC, created in 2002, as this chart 
indicates, was expected to sunset in 
2005. Instead, as you see on the chart, 
despite its dwindling services, Mr. 
Speaker, this agency has more than 
doubled its employee size in 3 years. 
This is clearly an abuse of what should 
have taken place. 

The EAC was established for a noble 
purpose: to allocate Federal grants for 
State voting systems upgrades, to conduct 
research, and to test and certify 
voting equipment. Aside from the certification 
services, which can be carried 
out by another agency, the EAC 
has fulfilled its purpose. 

Over $3 billion has been sent to 
States over the years to help them 
modernize their voting equipment. 
Now, the EAC has allocated all of its 
remaining election grants and even zeroed 
out its request for additional 
grant funds in its last three annual 
budget requests. 

The National Association of Secretaries 
of State, a bipartisan group, the 
direct beneficiary of the EAC’s dwindling 
services, has passed not one but 
two resolutions calling for the EAC’s 
dissolution. As this chart indicates, the 
EAC’s FY12 budget request devotes 51.7 
percent of its budget to management 
and overhead costs—more than half. 
Under this plan, the agency would use 
$5.4 million to manage programs totaling 
$3.5 million. 

This bill would transfer the EAC’s remaining 
valuable service, its voting 
system testing and certification program, 
to an existing agency instead of 
paying the overhead costs of a complete 
agency just to operate that program. 
Like its predecessor bill, H.R. 
672, this bill maintains an advisory system 
to give State and local election officials 
input into the testing and certification 
program. 

Mr. Speaker, since December of 2010, 
the Election Assistance Commission 
has not had a quorum. That means it 
has not been able to make policy decisions 
requiring approval by the Commissioners. 
Has anyone even noticed? 
Compared to the real crises facing our 
country, has there been harm caused to 
justify keeping an obsolete agency? 

The EAC is not merely obsolete, it’s 
also wasteful. I have spoken to this 
House before about the two hiring discrimination 
lawsuits against the EAC. 
Unfortunately, the more time that 
passes, the more problems come to 
light. Just recently we learned that a 
former EAC Commissioner, who continued 
serving for a year after the end of 
the term and then resigned, has been 
collecting unemployment benefits. Neither 
the Commissioner’s resignation 
letter nor any facts that we know of indicate 
the departure was anything 
other than voluntary. 

When we have millions of people in 
this country struggling to make ends 
meet, how can a senior government official 
who leaves a job voluntarily col


lect unemployment benefits? When we 
have an agency that is not needed and 
produces scandal after scandal, 
misperformance after misperformance, 
it is time for this agency to go. 

According to the CBO, dissolving the 
EAC will save taxpayers $33 million 
over the next 5 years. 

Mr. Speaker, we have a $15 trillion 
debt. We have to start somewhere. We 
now have annual deficits over a trillion 
dollars. H.R. 3463 eliminates one government 
program that virtually no one 
uses and shuts down an agency that 
has completed the task that it was assigned. 
Amazingly, we’ve had proposals 
not to shrink these programs but to expand 
them. Only in Washington is the 
answer to dysfunction expansion. 

This bill will not cure all of the problems 
that we have on its own, but it is 
one of many steps we are going to have 
to take; otherwise, we will sink deeper 
and deeper into debt and trap our children 
and our grandchildren down into a 
downward spiral. Today is the time to 
act, and this agency and this program 
are the place to start. 

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 
3463, and I reserve the balance of my 
time. 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM


MITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND 

TECHNOLOGY, 

Washington, DC, November 30, 2011. 

Hon. DANIEL E. LUNGREN, 

Chairman, Committee on House Administration, 

Longworth House Office Building, Wash


ington, DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN LUNGREN: I am writing to 
you concerning the jurisdictional interest of 
the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
in H.R. 3463 (to reduce Federal spending 
and the deficit by terminating taxpayer 
financing of presidential election campaigns 
and party conventions and by terminating 
the Election Assistance Commission) introduced 
on November 17, 2011. 

I recognize and appreciate your desire to 
bring this legislation before the House of 
Representatives in an expeditious manner, 
and accordingly, I will waive further consideration 
of this bill in Committee, notwithstanding 
any provisions that fall within the 
jurisdiction of the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology. This waiver, of 
course, is conditional upon our mutual understanding 
that agreeing to waive consideration 
of this bill should not be construed as 
waiving, reducing, or affecting the jurisdiction 
of the Committee on Science, Space, 
and Technology. Additionally, the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology 
expressly reserves its authority to seek conferees 
on any provision within its jurisdiction 
during any House-Senate conference 
that may be convened on this, or any similar 
legislation. I ask for your commitment to 
support any request by the Committee for 
conferees on H.R. 3463 as well as any similar 
or related legislation. 

I ask that a copy of this letter and your response 
be placed in the Congressional Record 
during consideration of H.R. 3463 on the 
House floor. 

I look forward to working with you on 
matters of mutual concern. 
Sincerely, 
RALPH M. HALL, 

Chairman, Committee on Science, Space, 
and Technology. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8021 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION, 

Washington, DC, December 1, 2010. 

Hon. RALPH HALL, 

Chairman, Committee on Science, Space, and 

Technology, Rayburn House Office Build


ing, Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Thank you for your 
letter regarding your Committee’s jurisdictional 
interest in H.R. 3463, to reduce Federal 
spending and the deficit by terminating 
taxpayer financing of presidential election 
campaigns and party conventions and by terminating 
the Election Assistance Commission. 


I appreciate your willingness to support 
expediting floor consideration of this important 
legislation, notwithstanding the inclusion 
of any provisions under the jurisdiction 
of the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology. I understand and agree that 
your willingness to waive further consideration 
of the bill is without prejudice to your 
Committee’s jurisdictional interests in this 
or similar legislation in the future. In the 
event a House-Senate conference on this or 
similar legislation is convened, I would support 
a request from your Committee for an 
appropriate number of conferees. 

I will include a copy of our exchange in the 
Congressional Record during consideration 
of H.R. 3463 on the House floor. 

Thank you for your cooperation as we 
work towards enactment of this legislation. 
Sincerely, 
DANIEL E. LUNGREN, 

Chairman, 
Committee on House Administration. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume. 

I rise in opposition to H.R. 3463. 

This is not new territory for this 
Congress. This proposal to eliminate 
the Presidential Election Campaign 
Fund and the Election Assistance Commission 
has already been dealt with in 
this Congress. The legislation before us 
proposes to combine these two really 
bad ideas. 

In an era of rapidly changing election 
law, both in terms of campaign finance 
regulation and voting rights, these two 
programs are more important now than 
ever. The electoral landscape is much 
different today than it was even 4 short 
years ago. The Supreme Court allows 
unlimited contributions from special 
interests, and Super PACs are raising 
vast amounts of funds with no government 
oversight or regulation. Corporations 
and special interests are donating 
massive sums of money, and some may 
expect a return on their investment. 
Unfortunately, this return often comes 
at the expense of the American people 
and sometimes at the expense of the integrity 
of this body. 

We cannot expect the trust of the 
electorate if they feel they do not have 
a voice. We should provide transparency 
and accountability, not secrecy 
and irresponsibility. 

Just last Congress, my colleagues 
and I passed the DISCLOSE Act, which 
called for more transparency in how 
our elections are financed, and that bill 
was killed by Senate Republicans. 
Members of the House, such as Mr. VAN 
HOLLEN of Maryland and Mr. LARSON of 
Connecticut, have authorized bills that 
would strengthen public financing of 

elections, not weaken it, as this bill 
does. 

When sources of funds are intentionally 
concealed, what kind of message 
does this send to the country? It 
sends the message that we do not care 
where we get our contributions as long 
as they are substantial and they are secret, 
and that is wrong. 

We can reform the Presidential Election 
Campaign Fund without repealing 
it. This is the best course of action. 

Across the country, States are making 
it harder for voters to cast their 
ballots. New laws requiring voter identifications, 
strict and arbitrary voting 
registration regulations, and eliminating 
the days designed for early voting 
are all part of an effort to limit 
voter participation and turnout. Voters 
have noticed and have already started 
to push back. 

This was the case in Maine last 
month when they used the ‘‘People’s 
Veto’’ to throw out a law passed by the 
Republican legislature and Governor to 
eliminate the State’s successful same-
day voter registration program which 
has been in place for 40 years. In other 
States, restrictive new laws may be 
forced onto the ballot for a possible repeal 
in referendums in 2012. 

If that wasn’t bad enough, overworked 
and underpaid local election officials 
and volunteers are expected to 
keep track of election law changes 
while still administrating large, complex, 
and often unpredictable elections. 
The Election Assistance Commission 
does much of the heavy lifting for 
them, establishing and maintaining an 
information database for all local election 
officials to utilize. 

The EAC also produces instructional 
videos and materials, which cash-
strapped election officials claim save 
them thousands of dollars annually. 
And the letters of support for the EAC, 
which have been also sent to my colleagues 
across the aisle, are still rolling 
in. 

The EAC’s essential services do not 
stop there. The Commission is charged 
with the testing of certification of voting 
machines, the only agency in the 
Federal Government tasked to do this. 
Who will ensure that all of our votes 
are counted? Who will ensure that everyone 
has an opportunity to cast a 
ballot for their intended candidate? 
Who will ensure that we do not repeat 
the historical debacle of Florida in the 
year 2000? 

It is important to remember that 
events led to the establishment of the 
Presidential Election Campaign Fund 
and the EAC—the Watergate scandal of 
the early 1970s and Florida in 2000, respectively. 
These historical controversies 
eroded the public’s faith in our political 
system. These measures were 
meant to restore their faith, to restore 
accountability to Washington and, 
most importantly, to ensure that the 
people were heard. All this bill will do 
is weaken further what little faith the 
American electorate has left. 

Today I stand with every letter writer 
that has pleaded with us not to ter


minate the EAC. I stand with those 
who cannot afford to make huge contributions 
and would rather speak with 
their votes than their wallets. I, along 
with Democratic colleagues, stand with 
the principles that voter inclusion, not 
voter exclusion, is what we should 
strive for, and the attempted disenfranchisement 
of any eligible voters is despicable 
and is beyond words and cannot 
be tolerated. 

On this bill I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote. 

LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS 

OF THE UNITED STATES, 

Washington, DC, May 24, 2011. 

To: Members of the Committee on House Ad


ministration 
From: Elisabeth MacNamara, President 
Re H.R. 672, To Terminate the Election As


sistance Commission 
The League of Women Voters urges you to 
oppose H.R. 672, which would terminate the 
Election Assistance Commission and transfer 
some of its functions to the Federal Election 
Commission. Instead of eliminating the EAC, 
we believe that Congress should strengthen 
the commission and expand its responsibilities. 
Moreover, the FEC is dysfunctional; 
expanding its role would be a mistake. 
The League believes that elections are fundamental 
to a functioning democracy and 
that every effort should be made to elevate 
their administration to the highest importance. 
Congress should not turn its back on 
federal efforts to ensure election integrity, 
improve voter access to the polls, and improve 
election systems. The value of the EAC 
far outweighs its monetary costs; in fact, the 
costs of poorly run elections are intolerable. 
It is time for election administration to 
move into the 21st Century, not back toward 
the 19th. 
Unfortunately, elections in our country 
are still not well-administered, and we are 
concerned that many states and localities 
are not doing a good job ensuring federally-
protected voting rights. For example, a GAO 
report on the 2008 election said that there 
are significant problems for persons with disabilities 
in gaining access to the polls. Physical 
barriers remain in far too many cases. In 
fact, 31 states reported that ensuring polling 
place accessibility was ‘‘challenging.’’ 
There many other areas of election administration 
that cause concern, including 
statewide voter registration lists, provisional 
balloting, list cleaning, voting machines 
and tabulating, access to registration, 
and meeting voter information needs. In addition, 
there are critical questions that must 
be addressed about the application of new 
technologies like the Internet to the voting 
and registration processes. Each of these 
areas would benefit from additional study, 
data gathering and information sharing 
among election officials at every level, the 
public, and concerned organizations. 
With these continuing problems, now is 
certainly not the time to abolish the only 
federal agency that devotes its full resources 
and attention to improving our elections. 
Let us not go back to the 2000 election but go 
forward, improving each election over the 
last. We know what needs to be done; now let 
us devote the resources to what should be 
done. 

THE LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE ON 
CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS, 

Washington, DC, May 24, 2011. 

DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the 
Voting Rights Task Force of The Leadership 
Conference on Civil and Human Rights, we 
urge you to oppose H.R. 672, which would terminate 
the Election Assistance Commission 
(‘‘EAC’’ or ‘‘Commission’’). As organizations 


H8022 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

that are committed to supporting and expanding 
the civil and voting rights of all 
Americans, we have devoted substantial resources 
to the passage of both the National 
Voter Registration Act and the Help America 
Vote Act. Terminating the EAC puts our 
work at jeopardy and risks reducing the voting 
and civil rights of our citizens—rights for 
which many have given their lives. 

The EAC does valuable work to ensure the 
reliability and trustworthiness of our nation’s 
election systems. The Commission 
plays a major role in collecting accurate and 
comparable election data. With our nation’s 
complex and diversified election administration 
system, central data collection is essential 
if we are going to improve our citizens’ 
trust and confidence in election results. The 
Commission develops and fosters the training 
and organization of our nation’s more 
than 8,000 election administrators. Through 
its many working committees and the work 
it does to foster robust dialogue among advocates, 
manufacturers and administrators, 
the Commission is improving the administration 
of elections. The EAC’s award-winning 
web page has become the ‘‘go to’’ site 
for election administrators, advocates, and 
academics. 

The Commission is charged with developing 
standards for voting systems, and this 
precedent-setting work has been recognized 
by nations around the world. Several countries 
are so impressed with our system that 
they have signed agreements with the EAC 
for technical assistance as they develop their 
own voting system standards and certification 
procedures. The EAC’s certification 
program uses its oversight role to coordinate 
with manufacturers and local election officials 
to ensure that existing voting equipment 
meets durability and longevity standards. 
This saves state and local governments 
from the unnecessary expense of new voting 
equipment. 

The EAC has also played a central role in 
improving the accessibility of voting for the 
country’s more than 37 million voters with 
disabilities. We still have a long way to go to 
achieve the Help America Vote Act’s mandate 
to make voting accessible. The EAC’s 
leadership is essential to continuing the effort 
to offer all Americans the right to vote 
‘‘privately and independently.’’ 

As we approach the 2012 elections, the EAC 
must continue to do its important work. 
Rather than abolishing the agency just before 
the 2012 elections, we believe Congress 
should strengthen the Commission by broadening 
its data collection responsibilities and 
by giving it regulatory authority to ensure 
that persons with disabilities have full access 
to the polls. 

Thank you for your consideration of our 
position. If you have any questions about 
this letter, please contact Leadership Conference 
Senior Counsel Lisa Bornstein, at 

(202) 263–2856 or Bornstein@civilrights.org. 
Sincerely, 
WADE HENDERSON, 

President & CEO. 

NANCY ZIRKIN, 

Executive Vice President. 


NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE 
ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE, 

Washington, DC, June 2, 2011. 

MEMBERS, 

U.S. House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the 
NAACP, our nation’s oldest, largest and 
most widely-recognized grassroots-based 
civil rights organization, I strongly urge you 
to do all you can to support the Election Assistance 
Commission and to oppose and vote 
against efforts to terminate this crucial tool 

in our arsenal to strengthen our democracy. 
The right to vote is a cornerstone of our democracy 
and we as a Nation should do all we 
can to ensure that every eligible American 
can cast an unfettered vote of their own free 
will and that their vote is counted. 

As established by the 2002 Help America 
Vote Act, the Election Assistance Commission 
provides research and data, guidance 
and grants to states and local governments 
so they can employ the best practices and 
the most up-to-date methods of registering 
and voting. The Election Assistance Commission 
has provided crucial help to many 
localities in the efforts to identify and reach 
groups which had heretofore been 
disenfranchised, including racial and ethnic 
minorities, members of the Armed Services 
(especially those serving overseas), disabled 
Americans and senior citizens. 

We should be supporting and enhancing 
groups like the Election Assistance Commission, 
whose mission is to engage more Americans 
in the democratic process so that their 
voices may be heard. I therefore must again 
strongly urge you to oppose and work 
against bills such as H.R. 672, which would 
terminate the Election Assistance Commission 
within 60 days of enactment. Sadly, this 
shortsighted legislation which is, in fact, a 
direct attack on one of the most fundamental 
components of our form of government, 
the right to vote and have that vote 
count, was passed out of the House Administration 
Committee and may come before you 
on the House floor in the very near future. 

Thank you in advance for your attention 
to the NAACP position: I look forward to 
working with you to see that we work toward 
a more inclusive democracy and to protect 
the integrity of our Nation and our government. 
Should you have any questions or 
comments, please do not hesitate to contact 
me at my office at (202) 463–2940. 

Sincerely, 

HILARY O. SHELTON, 

Director, NAACP 
Washington Bureau 
& Senior Vice President 
for Advocacy 
and Policy. 

DE¯
MOS, 

New York, NY, May 24, 2011. 
Committee on House Administration, Sub


committee on Elections, U.S. House of Rep


resentatives, Washington, DC. 

DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: De¯mos respectfully 
urges the members of the Subcommittee on 
Elections to oppose H.R. 672, legislation that 
would terminate the Elections Assistance 
Commission (EAC). Without the EAC there 
would be no federal agency focused on improving 
the quality of elections—a vital 
function in ensuring the success of our democratic 
institutions. 

De¯mos is a non-partisan public policy research 
and advocacy organization committed 
to building an America which achieves its 
highest democratic ideals—a nation where 
democracy is robust and inclusive, with high 
levels of electoral participation and civic engagement; 
an economy where prosperity and 
opportunity are broadly shared and disparity 
is reduced; and a strong and effective government 
with the capacity to plan for the future. 


The EAC does valuable work to ensure the 
efficacy, reliability, and trustworthiness of 
our nation’s election systems. For example, 
the Commission plays a major role in collecting 
accurate and comparable election 
data. With our nation’s complex and diversified 
election administration system, central 
data collection is essential to accurately assess 
its state and therefore to improve our 
citizens’ trust and confidence in election results. 
The Commission also develops and fos


ters the training and organization of our nation’s 
more than 8,000 election administrators. 
The EAC’s award-winning web page has 
become the ‘‘go to’’ site for election administrators, 
advocates, and academics. 

Moreover, the Commission is charged with 
developing standards for voting systems, and 
this precedent-setting work has been recognized 
by nations around the world. Several 
countries are so impressed with our system 
that they have signed agreements with the 
EAC for technical assistance as they developed 
their own voting system standards and 
certification procedures. The EAC’s certification 
program is helping state and local 
governments to save money by using its 
oversight role to coordinate with manufacturers 
and local election officials to ensure 
that the existing equipment meets its durability 
and longevity potential. This saves 
state and local governments from the unnecessary 
expense of new voting equipment. 

Importantly, the EAC has played a central 
role in improving the accessibility of voting 
for the country’s more than 37 million voters 
with disabilities. Although we still have a 
way to go to achieve the Help America Vote 
Act’s mandate to make voting accessible, 
the EAC’s leadership is essential to continuing 
the effort to offer all Americans the 
right to vote ‘‘privately and independently.’’ 

We recognize that H.R. 672 would transfer 
many of the EAC’s functions to the FEC but 
this would not be wise. The FEC is dysfunctional. 
It is overwhelmed by its current responsibilities, 
as evidenced by repeated court 
orders to correct its regulations to bring 
them in line with the laws of the United 
States. The FEC is starkly divided on partisan 
lines, making it particularly inappropriate 
for election administration responsibilities. 
And the FEC is increasingly unable 
to make decisions or even to agree on 
staff-negotiated recommendations. 

Rather than abolishing the EAC, Congress 
should provide the EAC with resources and a 
renewed commitment to sponsoring and encouraging 
information sharing among state 
and local officials, EAC committees, the 
non-partisan voting rights community, technical 
experts and others. 

Elections are the life blood of a democracy. 
We strongly urge the committee to strengthen 
the Election Assistance Commission instead 
of terminating it. 

Sincerely, 

MILES RAPOPORT, 

President. 

LAWYERS’ COMMITTEE FOR 
CIVIL RIGHTS UNDER LAW, 

Washington, DC, June 21, 2011. 

Hon. NANCY PELOSI, 

Minority Leader, U.S. House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MADAM LEADER: The Lawyers’ Committee 
for Civil Rights Under Law (‘‘Lawyers’ 
Committee’’) writes to express our opposition 
to the ‘‘To Terminate the Election 
Assistance Commission, and For Other Purposes 
Act’’ (H.R. 672). In the 2000 presidential 
election, many voters in Florida were wrongfully 
denied access to the ballot based on 
faulty voting equipment and a lack of discernible 
standards for vote counting. This 
bill would roll back the progress being made 
to bring more uniformity and equity to the 
election process across the states. 

The Lawyers’ Committee is a nonpartisan, 
nonprofit organization, established in 1963 at 
the request of President John F. Kennedy to 
involve the private bar in providing legal 
services to protect the rights of individuals 
affected by racial discrimination. The defense 
of voting rights has been a core part of 
the Lawyers’ Committee’s work since our 
founding nearly 50 years ago. We believe that 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8023 

abolishing the Election Assistance Commission 
(EAC) fails to further voting transparency 
and reliability that was at the heart 
of the Help America Vote Act (HAVA). Predictably, 
those who would be most frequently 
disenfranchised are also those least 
able to advocate for their right to vote, 
whether poor, uneducated, infirm or elderly. 

Faced with a challenge to our democratic 
system, Congress immediately rushed to action 
to take bold steps to bring our elections 
into the 21st century by passing HAVA which 
established the EAC. The EAC tests and certifies 
voting machines for use in elections to 
avoid a repeat of the 2000 election debacle in 
Florida; administers electronic voting for 
our brave men and women in uniform fighting 
overseas so that they are able to vote 
abroad; and creates voluntary voting guidelines 
for states, instilling confidence in the 
democratic process of this country for all 
voters. Since its inception, the Lawyers’ 
Committee has been intimately acquainted 
with the work of the EAC, especially as Barbara 
Arnwine our Executive Director has 
served on the EAC advisory board. Our work 
and experience with the EAC leads us to believe 
that its establishment was the right 
course of action, and that its existence has 
helped bring some clarity to our multi-faceted 
election process. 

The work of the EAC to improve and modernize 
our election system is far from over. 
Moving the functionality of the EAC to the 
FEC would not only be ineffective, but costly. 
The Federal Election Committee (FEC), 
institutionally partisan and consistently ineffective 
in achieving even its current mandate, 
is not the organization we need to test 
and certify voting machines, or safeguard 
the votes of our service men and women. 

With the presidential election on the horizon, 
it is more important than ever that we 
ensure the voice of the people is heard 
through a reliable, transparent democratic 
system. Termination of the EAC will take us 
backwards when we are trying to move forward. 


Sincerely, 

BARBARA R. ARNWINE, 

Executive Director. 

TANYA CLAY HOUSE, 

Director of Public Policy. 


NATIONAL DISABILITY RIGHTS 
NETWORK, 

Washington, DC, June 21, 2011. 

Re Opposition to H.R. 672, the Election Support 
Consolidation and Efficiency Act. 

As the Executive Director of the National 
Disability Rights Network (NDRN), I write 
to express the opposition of NDRN and the 57 
Protection and Advocacy systems it represents 
to H.R. 672, the Election Support 
Consolidation and Efficiency Act (ESCEA). 
Voting is a fundamental right, and the Election 
Assistance Commission has played an 
important role since its creation to ensuring 
that polling places and the voting process 
are accessible to people with disabilities. 
The ESCEA would hinder progress toward 
accessibility of polling places and the voting 
process by abolishing the Election Assistance 
Commission (EAC). 

NDRN is the national membership association 
for the 57 Protection & Advocacy (P&A) 
agencies that advocate on behalf of persons 
with disabilities in every state, the District 
of Columbia, and U.S. territories. For over 30 
years, the P&A agencies have been mandated 
by Congress to protect and enhance the civil 
rights of individuals with disabilities of any 
age and in any setting. One area of focus for 
the P&As is voting through the Protection 
and Advocacy for Voting Access Act (PAVA) 
which charges P&As with helping to ensure 

the full participation of individuals with disabilities 
in the entire electoral process, including 
registering to vote, casting a ballot, 
and accessing polling places. 

The EAC has played a central role in improving 
the accessibility of voting for voters 
with disabilities. A Government Accountability 
Office report from 2009 http:// 
www.gao.gov/newitems/d09685.pdf) found that 
72 percent of polling places surveyed on Election 
Day 2008 had impediments that hinder 
physical access or limit the opportunities for 
private and independent voting for people 
with disabilities. This is an improvement 
over the results of a similar study done during 
the 200 election, in which 84 percent of 
polling places had impediments. The EAC, 
established following the 2000 election, has 
helped improve these results by acting as a 
national clearinghouse of information on accessible 
voting and providing technical assistance 
and guidance for election commissioners 
and how to make polling places, and 
the voting process as a whole, more accessible. 


There remains much work to be done not 
only relating to physical accessibility, but 
also relating to other barriers to voting, 
such as a lack of voting and registration materials 
in accessible formats for people with 
sensory disabilities. In some instances, there 
have been outright denials of the right to 
register and vote based on false assumptions 
about a person’s legal capacity to vote. Abolishing 
the EAC at this point in time would 
be a step back for people with disabilities 
and the goal of full accessibility to the voting 
process, and prevent people with disabilities 
from partaking of this most fundamental 
civil right. 

As we rapidly approach the 2012 elections, 
the EAC must continue to do its important 
work. Rather than abolishing the agency 
just before the 2012 elections, Congress 
should strengthen the EAC to ensure that 
persons with disabilities fully enjoy the 
right to vote privately and independently. 
Therefore, on behalf of the NDRN and the 57 
P&A agencies it represents, I ask that you 
oppose H.R. 672 when it is considered by the 
full House of Representatives today. 

Sincerely, 

CURTIS L. DECKER, JD, 

Executive Director. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

b 1300 
Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 
It is clear that what has happened 
here is that there has been no response 
to many of the allegations of mismanagement 
that we’ve heard so far. It 
is clear from the things that have happened 
that the EAC, in particular, it is 
time for this to come to a conclusion. 
It is an agency whose average salary 
for its employees—and the employee 
size has more than doubled since 2007— 
the average salary is $106,000 for this 
agency. Ronald Reagan said that the 
closest thing on earth to eternal life is 
a temporary government program. This 
was supposed to last for a period of 3 
years. 
The National Association of Secretaries 
of State in 2005 did a resolution, 
a bipartisan group, they did a resolution 
saying bring this to an end. They 
renewed that resolution again in 2010, 
and yet it remains. If we cannot get rid 
of an agency like the EAC, then we’re 
never going to be able to get rid of anything 
up here. 

With that, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlelady 
from California (Ms. LOFGREN). 

Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. I 
thank the gentleman for yielding. 

I rise in opposition to the bill. 

Instead of focusing on jobs and helping 
middle class families, the Republican 
leadership is hard at work today 
creating additional ways in which corporations 
and special interests can 
dominate our elections process. Ending 
the Presidential Election Campaign 
Fund opens the door for large political 
spenders to enjoy an even greater role 
in the funding of political campaigns. 

The voluntary public finance system 
for Presidential campaigns was created 
in the early seventies as a direct result 
of the corruption of Watergate, the 
largest political scandal of our generation. 
Stopping corruption and the appearance 
of corruption is as important 
today as it was during the Nixon years. 
The level of spending by corporations 
and special interests since the Supreme 
Court’s decision in Citizens United 
should give every American reason for 
concern. Do my Republican colleagues 
really believe that more corporate and 
special interest money in politics is 
going to benefit in any way the 99 percent 
of Americans who don’t have lobbyists? 


The current public finance system for 
Presidential elections has problems. 
Most notably, it has not kept pace with 
the cost of modern campaigns, so we 
should fix it instead of eliminating it. 
And I would note that the Republican 
National Committee recently received 
$18 million from the fund, so if the Republicans 
think it’s such a bad idea, 
perhaps they should ask the RNC to return 
the money. 

As for the Election Assistance Commission, 
the EAC is the only Federal 
agency focused on improving Federal 
elections. This was an outgrowth of the 
disastrous process of the 2000 election. 
Remember, 100 million votes were cast, 
but it took a decision of the Supreme 
Court before a winner was declared. 
The experience left a black eye on our 
elections process. It’s not something 
America should go through again. 

As State and local budgets are cut, 
the value of this commission is going 
to grow. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentlewoman has expired. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. I yield 
the gentlelady an additional 30 seconds. 


Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. 
Have there been problems at the EAC? 
Yes, there have been problems. What 
should we do about it? We need oversight 
and reform. We shouldn’t just 
abolish this commission because we are 
going backwards to the bad old days of 
inconsistency among voters. I urge my 
colleagues to focus on the economy, 
focus on jobs, and don’t pass bills that 
give corporations and special interests 
even greater influence in our elections. 


H8024 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

It is amazing that there is a reference 
to the need that we need to 
focus on jobs instead of doing something 
like this. If that’s the case, we’ve 
passed about 25 bills this year out of 
the Republican-led House that dealt 
with jobs and dealt with the economy. 
We have done our job on that, and now 
they’re sitting over in the Senate who 
knows where or why awaiting action. 
So we have been doing those things, 
the tough decisions, the things that 
will create jobs if the Senate and the 
White House would join with us on 
those things. So that is simply not accurate 
to say that we haven’t been focusing 
on jobs because we have done 
that since we started this year, and we 
will continue to do so and encourage 
and urge our colleagues over in the 
Senate to bring these matters up. They 
include things that will help on over-
burdensome EPA regs, with things that 
will deal with permitting and drilling 
in the Gulf of Mexico and things that 
will have a direct impact on our economy 
and jobs. 

You know, it is clear, particularly on 
the EAC, which was created in 2002 
after HAVA, the Help America Vote 
Act, after the Bush-Gore recount so 
that we wouldn’t have another hanging 
chad or butterfly ballot situation, and 
this agency administered over $3 billion 
worth of grants to the States for 
machines. When it was passed, it was 
designed to be a 3-year agency and program. 
We’re 9 years into this. And instead 
of trying to say, okay, and we 
showed the chart a minute ago with 
$5.4 million worth of management 
costs, and yet only a little over $3 million 
in program costs. And the grants 
for the machines, Mr. Speaker, are now 
gone and they are not there. 

We have the letter from the National 
Association of Secretaries of State 
which restates their position on the 
resolution to eliminate the EAC done 
in 2005, and again in 2010. Again on the 
EAC, we have reports from different 
agencies. We have an IG report criticizing 
the management practices of the 
EAC. This report was done in March of 
2010. 

We have a report from the EAC’s financial 
records back in November of 
2008 which I dealt with when I first got 
on the Committee on House Administration 
in early 2009. This report is an 
audit of the Election Assistance Commission 
fiscal year 2008 financial statements. 
The records were so mismanaged, 
this agency that the other 
side wants to keep instead of trying to 
make us more efficient, it was so bad 
that the agency couldn’t be audited. 
The records were too bad to tell them 
how bad it was. So that lengthy report 
is available to anyone who cares to 
read it. 

Then we have a report from the Office 
of Special Counsel that was done in 
2009. The Office of Special Counsel 
talks about having to settle a political 
discrimination case. An agency that is 

supposed to talk about fairness and 
helping in elections themselves get 
sued for political discrimination. And 
one of those that created that problem 
is the one that voluntarily resigned 
and received unemployment benefits 
for a voluntary resignation. 

We have the organizational chart 
that shows that the EAC included a 
special assistant to a vacant position. I 
can go on and on, Mr. Speaker, on the 
mismanagement of the EAC. It is clearly 
time to say—and I understand that 
there are some things that we need to 
keep. We are saying that the essential 
functions of this group, send them over 
to the FEC, and we can take care of 
those situations on testing and certification, 
make the process more efficient, 
and we’ll save money for the taxpayers. 


With that, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlelady 
from California (Mrs. DAVIS). 

Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise in opposition to H.R. 3463. 

It might sound surprising, but right 
behind jobs, one of the top concerns my 
constituents contact me about is campaign 
reform. You’d think that campaign 
rules would be the very last 
thing people would think about when 
they’re worried about their livelihoods, 
their mortgages, and their family’s 
health care. But they know that the 
electoral process is at the heart of everything 
their government can do for 
them. 

The American people are frustrated. 
They are frustrated by what I call 
super-sized campaigns. It’s all too 
much. It’s too slanderous. It’s too hard 
to tell who’s paying for what and who’s 
saying what. They feel that big donors, 
big corporations, and ideological 
groups are running the show, and 
they’re being left out. But the American 
people care, and they believe in 
‘‘we the people.’’ 

Public financing gives the voice back 
to the middle class. The Election Assistance 
Commission can help election 
officials better the process for voters. 
Neither of these is perfect right now. 
We acknowledge that, but we should be 
improving rather than eliminating 
them. Throwing away what public financing 
we have, what financing 
worked for every President from 1976 to 
2004 and making it harder to bring election 
improvements together is a step in 
the wrong direction. 

b 1310 
Rather than making it even harder 
for the average voter to make a difference, 
Congress should be improving 
access to democracy by expanding public 
financing, assisting election officials, 
and increasing voting opportunities 
for all Americans. 
Our people are our strength, and we 
have no business shutting them out. 
The supporters of this bill say it will 
save us money. But in fact, Mr. Speaker, 
it will mean our democracy is up for 
sale. 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. BARTON). 

Mr. BARTON of Texas. I thank the 
gentleman from Mississippi for yielding. 


One of the arguments that’s been 
made about the EAC, Mr. Speaker, is 
that it’s the Federal Election Commission 
that ensures every American citizen’s 
right to vote. If only that were 
true, Mr. Speaker. 

The National Association of Secretaries 
of State, which is the organization 
in each State that oversees the 
elections, has called for the dissolution 
of the EAC. The committee has heard 
firsthand testimony from Secretaries 
of State all across the country. Both in 
2005 and again in 2010, the National Association 
of Secretaries of State has 
called for the dissolution of the EAC. 

If the organizations that are actually 
responsible in each State for holding 
the elections, Mr. Speaker, are asking 
that the Federal agency that’s supposed 
to help them should be dissolved, 
I think it would behoove the Congress 
to listen to the States and in this case 
dissolve this commission. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Missouri (Mr. CLAY). 

Mr. CLAY. I thank the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania for yielding. 

Mr. Speaker, there are ongoing attempts 
to suppress the valid legal vote 
of some communities in this country. 
Earlier efforts to stop selected Americans 
from voting, such as literacy tests 
and poll taxes, were overturned by this 
Congress. But while the tactics of these 
people have changed, their strategy remains 
the same—intimidate, discourage, 
or otherwise prevent certain 
groups of American citizens from voting. 


Current tactics include burdensome 
voter ID laws, outrageous registration 
requirements, dishonest ‘‘inactive 
voter lists,’’ and unlawful disenfranchisement 
of ex-offenders. To these flagrant 
tactics proponents of voter suppression 
have added more subtle approaches, 
including disinformation 
campaigns and behind-the-scenes, 
quiet—and unfair—purging of voter 
rolls. 

Now we are presented with their latest 
plan to deny certain Americans 
their right to vote—the elimination of 
two programs whose sole aim is to ensure 
that every American’s voice is 
heard in our election. The Presidential 
Election Campaign Fund and the Election 
Assistance Commission are in 
need of strengthening, not elimination. 
They help make sure that all voices 
can be heard and that all votes will be 
counted. I support improving these programs. 


But the only reason to want to eliminate 
them is to further suppress votes. 
The votes are the same groups who 
were targeted by Jim Crow laws decades 
ago. The votes are the same 
groups who are now targeted by ‘‘inactive 
voter lists’’ and voter ID laws and 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8025 

all of the other new tactics designed 
for a single goal—voter suppression. 

I urge my colleagues to defeat this 
bill and defeat yet another attempt to 
stop American citizens from voting. 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Wisconsin 
(Mr. SENSENBRENNER). 

Mr. SENSENBRENNER. Mr. Speaker, 
I can’t believe what I just heard 
from my friend from Missouri. Doing 
away with the Presidential Election 
Campaign Fund is not a Jim Crow law. 
And I’ll put my record alongside his on 
ensuring voting rights to minorities as 
the author of the latest extension of 
the Voting Rights Act and one who got 
the 1982 compromise passed and signed 
into law by President Reagan. 

The Presidential Election Campaign 
Fund was destroyed 3 years ago by 
President and then-Candidate Barack 
Obama. He refused to be bound by its 
restrictions. Senator JOHN MCCAIN was. 
And he was put at a significant disadvantage 
in the general election campaign 
by running against Candidate 
Obama, who rejected the Election Campaign 
Fund’s funds and raised huge and 
unlimited amounts of money. 

Mr. CLAY. Will the gentleman yield? 

Mr. SENSENBRENNER. I have a limited 
amount of time. If I have time left, 
I will be happy to yield. 

This year, so as not to disadvantage 
themselves, none—that means none—of 
the Republican primary candidates 
have signed up for Presidential Election 
Campaign Fund money. The 
Obama moneymaking machine is running 
all around the country. We see 
this in the newspapers. We hear it on 
television. And because the campaign 
fund would limit the amount of money 
that whoever the Republican nominee, 
if they took these funds, could use in 
order to spread his message on why 
Obama ought to be replaced by the voters, 
we ought to just get rid of this 
fund altogether. It was destroyed 3 
years ago by then-Candidate Obama. 
We might as well not spend any more 
taxpayers’ funds on it. May it rest in 
peace. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from New Jersey (Mr. HOLT). 

Mr. HOLT. I thank the gentleman. 

Mr. Speaker, we already know that 
in 38 States there is introduced legislation 
that would suppress the participation 
and the votes of young, minority, 
and elderly voters. Now we see their allies 
here in Congress who are trying to 
eliminate the only Federal agency 
charged with improving the conduct of 
elections and making sure that every 
vote counts. If you like the direction of 
the State legislatures, you’re going to 
be thrilled by the legislation before us 
today to close the Election Assistance 
Commission. 

The voter’s vote should be behind a 
curtain of secrecy, but the process by 
which registration and elections are 
conducted should be transparent. If 
not, voters will cease to believe that 
the process is fair and that their vote 
counts. 

Let me remind my colleagues there is 
nothing more crucial to democracy 
than guaranteeing the integrity, the 
fairness, the accountability, the accuracy 
of elections. Democracy works 
only if the citizens believe it does. The 
system must work, and the people 
must believe in it; but voting shouldn’t 
be an act of blind faith. It should be an 
act of record. 

The EAC helps maintain the integrity 
of the American electoral process. 
Too many people across the country 
have lost confidence in the legitimacy 
of the election results. Dismantling the 
EAC would further erode that necessary 
faith in the process. 

We’ve discussed several times—and 
others have talked about it—if manipulating 
the outcome of elections occurs, 
how much easier will it be once the 
EAC is eliminated. Millions of Americans 
are casting their votes now on 
unauditable voting machines and the 
results of most elections are not audited. 


b 1320 
Eliminating the EAC would increase 
the risks that our electoral process 
would be compromised by vote manipulation, 
by targeted voter ID laws, by 
voter system irregularities. Can we afford 
to take that risk? Certainly not. 
Do we want problems to go undetected? 
I would hope not. 
Less oversight, lesser standards, less 
transparency in reporting, less testing, 
fewer audience weakens our democracy. 
Abolishing the EAC is the wrong 
way to go. 
Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 
minutes to the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. COLE), a distinguished member 
of the Appropriations and Budget 
Committees, who also has been heavily 
involved in this matter as a cosponsor 
and also has done great work on trying 
to eliminate and bring to an end the 
Presidential Election Fund. 
Mr. COLE. I thank the gentleman for 
yielding. 
The legislation before us actually 
does three important things: First, it 
eliminates an antiquated, outdated 
system of public financing; second, it 
terminates an obsolete commission; 
and then finally, and not incidentally, 
it actually saves money, something 
that we talk a lot about around here 
but we very seldom actually do. 
When the Presidential Election Campaign 
Fund was actually created in 
1973, it was during the time before 
things like Facebook, YouTube, and 
Twitter. The widespread use of the 
Internet did not exist. That’s no longer 
the case today. Today, it’s pretty easy 
to actually contribute money to a 
Presidential candidate if you want to 
do it. I would advise anybody, regardless 
of their political persuasion, to 
simply type the name of the candidate 
that they like into the Internet and 
wait and see what pops up, and they’re 
going to have an immediate opportunity 
to donate to that individual. 
There is no need to take public 
money at a time that we’re running 

$1.5 trillion deficits and divert it to 
what’s essentially political welfare for 
Presidential candidates—absolute 
waste of money. It’s so much a waste 
that our President, who defends the 
system but chose not to participate in 
the system—in 2008, he did not participate, 
did not raise money this way, did 
not do it during the public campaign, 
actually broke precedent and, frankly, 
the commitment he had made earlier 
in the campaign and just chose not to 
do it. And that’s fine. That was his 
right. He was certainly more than adequately 
funded. His opponent, Senator 
Clinton, now Secretary Clinton, was 
also adequately funded. She did not use 
the public financing system. The one 
person who did, JOHN MCCAIN, was 
heavily outspent, although I don’t 
think that had much to do with his defeat. 


I think, honestly, Americans know 
how to contribute to Presidential candidates. 
They don’t need the Federal 
Government letting them check off a 
portion of their taxes and divert it for 
that purpose. 

In addition, public participation in 
this system has declined radically. It’s 
never reached even one-third of American 
taxpayers that are willing to do 
this—peaked at 28 percent, and in 2009 
was down to 7 percent of American taxpayers 
who chose to do it. 

So we’re not denying anybody the 
ability to participate. We are giving 
very expensive welfare to Presidential 
candidates and to political parties at a 
cost to the taxpayer when that cost 
can’t be afforded. 

Two weeks ago, we had something 
that occurred that honestly ought to 
concern everybody on this floor. And I 
don’t fault either party for it, but the 
Democratic Party and the Republican 
Party both received $17 million for 
their conventions from the Federal 
Treasury of the United States; $17 million 
for two political parties—actually, 
34 in total—to actually run their conventions 
from the American taxpayer. 
Who really believes that’s a needed expenditure? 
Each one of those parties— 
and I can tell you because I used to be 
the chief of staff of one of them—will 
spend over $100 million on its convention. 
They don’t require additional 
Federal help. It’s simply a waste of 
time and a waste of money. 

As for the Election Assistance Commission—
and I say this as a former secretary 
of State—this is a commission 
whose time has come and gone. Whatever 
good it did, it currently spends 
over 50 percent of its budget on administration, 
not on direct assistance to 
the States. And the idea that State 
governments and States who have been 
running elections for 200 years suddenly 
need the Federal Government to 
tell them how to do it and spend this 
kind of money I think is just absurd. 

Frankly, the National Association of 
Secretaries of State, which is the oldest 
public association of elected officials 
and appointed officials in the 
United States, has twice called for the 


H8026 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

elimination of this. They don’t feel the 
need for it. They certainly don’t see 
that they’re getting any assistance 
from it. 

So whatever good it played in the immediate 
aftermath of the 2000 election 
I think is now concluded. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
the gentleman 1 additional minute. 

Mr. COLE. I appreciate the gentleman 
for yielding. 

Without putting too fine a point on 
it, this is a system and this is a commission 
that simply exists to solve 
problems that aren’t problems. We 
have no problem funding Presidential 
campaigns in the United States. 
There’s plenty of money—probably too 
much money—around. There doesn’t 
need to be taxpayer money. Nor do political 
parties have a problem funding 
their conventions. They can do it 
themselves. Nor do we need a commission 
whose purpose has now passed into 
history and whose entities it’s supposed 
to serve, the Secretaries of State 
around the country, have actually 
asked us to abolish it. 

So let’s just finally prove we can get 
rid of outmoded programs, end the expenditures, 
and actually save the taxpayers 
some money. And in doing so, I 
can assure everybody on the floor that 
our democracy will remain healthy, 
our elections will be fair, and the 
American people, in their wisdom, will 
figure out which candidate to contribute 
to if they choose to contribute 
to any candidate at all. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. 
PRICE). 

Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, I rise for the third time this 
year to oppose a measure that would 
summarily repeal our system of public 
funding for Presidential elections. 

Once again, the House majority 
seems intent on dismantling the few 
remaining safeguards we have left 
against the influence of special interests 
in politics following the Supreme 
Court’s Citizens United ruling. The fact 
that they are ostensibly bringing this 
bill forward as a deficit reduction 
measure in order to pay for a bill to 
undermine workers’ rights is the 
height of cynicism. 

This bill before us today would destroy 
one of the most successful examples 
of reform that followed the Watergate 
scandal. Dare we forget what that 
scandal was about? The Committee to 
Reelect the President, fueled by huge 
quantities of corporate cash, paying for 
criminal acts and otherwise subverting 
the American electoral system. 

The hallmark of the Federal Election 
Campaign Act of 1974, enacted at a 
time when public confidence in government 
was dangerously low, was our 
voluntary program of public financing 
for Presidential elections. To this day, 
this innovative reform stands as one of 
the greatest steps we have taken to 

bring transparency and accountability 
to our electoral system. And it has 
worked remarkably well, being utilized 
in the general election by every Republican 
and Democratic Presidential 
nominee from 1976 through 2004 and by 
JOHN MCCAIN in 2008, although in recent 
years the need for modernization 
has become evident. 

Perhaps the best example of this program’s 
success is President Ronald 
Reagan, who participated in Presidential 
public financing in all three of 
his Presidential campaigns—in 1976, 
1980, and 1984. The Reagan case illustrates 
the positive effects public financing 
has had in both parties at both 
the primary and the general election 
stages. It illuminates the way in which 
the system benefits candidates who 
challenge the party’s establishment. It 
also highlights the system’s focus on 
small donations rather than big bucks 
from the large contributors. Note that 
this is no free ride, no willy-nilly 
spending program. Candidates must 
seek the support of thousands of small 
donors during the primary to prove 
their viability, and only then do they 
receive matching funds. 

Today one could wish, in light of the 
positive history of this program and 
prior Republican support, for a bipartisan 
effort to repair the system and 
restore its effectiveness. I don’t know 
of any policy that exemplifies the 
maxim ‘‘mend it, don’t end it’’ better 
than this one. 

Earlier this year, Congressman VAN 
HOLLEN and I reintroduced a bill that 
would do just that. It would modernize 
the Presidential public financing system 
and again make it an attractive 
and viable option for Presidential candidates. 
Our bill would bring available 
funds into line with the increased cost 
of campaigns, adjust the program to 
the front-loaded primary calendar, and 
enhance the role of small donors. The 
bill has been carefully designed and deserves 
deliberation and debate. 

b 1330 
Instead, we’re faced with yet another 
Republican attempt to open the floodgates 
for corporate cash and special interest 
influence to pour into our political 
system. 
With confidence in government at 
rock bottom, and the perception of 
government corruption through the 
roof, why is the majority trying to return 
us to the dark days of Watergate? 
Let’s instead restore and improve our 
public financing system and move on 
to real solutions to put our Nation’s 
fiscal house in order. 
Let’s not use valuable floor time to 
pass a bill that has no chance of becoming 
law. The American people want 
us to get to work on important measures 
to revive the struggling economy 
and put people back to work. So I urge 
the majority to heed that call. Get to 
work on passing appropriations bills, 
fixing the Medicare physician reimbursement, 
extending the payroll tax 
cut and unemployment benefits, 

patching the AMT, and reauthorizing 
the FAA in time for families’ holiday 
travel. 

I’m afraid such pleas are falling on 
deaf ears in this Chamber these days. 
But we need to get to work on the people’s 
business, not on this flawed bill 
that threatens to allow big money to 
play an even larger role in our politics. 

Mr. HARPER. I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. GONZALEZ), a 
valued member of the House Administration 
Committee. 

Mr. GONZALEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
in opposition to this bill in its entirety 
but especially to that provision which 
attempts to eliminate the Election Assistance 
Commission. 

I need to address a few points that 
have been made by the proponents of 
this bill because I was there when this 
original bill came up for consideration 
years ago, and I’ve been there for the 
subsequent hearings in the committee 
of jurisdiction. 

First of all, when it comes to the secretaries 
of state, they’ve been opposed 
to the creation of the Election Assistance 
Commission from its very beginning. 
This is nothing new. Their renewal 
of opposition basically used a 
form letter that didn’t even change the 
2006 date. The 2010 opposition letter actually 
referred and still used the same 
letter of previous years. 

But the most important thing to 
point out is that secretaries of state 
have multifaceted responsibilities and 
obligations. One of them is to conduct 
elections. But each one of us in this 
body knows who really runs an election, 
and it’s going to be your local 
election administrators. 

You and I and anybody involved in 
the electoral process knows that on 
Election Day you’re not going to find 
secretary of state personnel at the polling 
places. When the ballots are mailed 
for absentee voting, you’re not going to 
find anyone from the Secretary of 
State’s Office. They’re not going to 
count the ballots. They’re not going to 
be there. It is a local effort, and that’s 
what the Election Assistance Commission 
is doing. 

It was never meant to have a life 
span of 3 years. If you read the bill 
carefully, and Mr. HOYER, who will be 
taking the floor later, will remind us of 
the legislative history of that particular 
bill that created this commission. 


If we are to criticize them for an inordinate 
amount of their budget being 
applied to personnel, then we must 
look in the mirror as Members of Congress, 
because I assure you, because I 
also sit on a committee, obviously the 
same committee, that entertains the 
budget requests of the different committees. 
Each one of those committees 
and individual Members of Congress 
will tell you that they spend a greater 
proportion of their budget on personnel 
than the Election Assistance Commission. 
And there’s good reason for it. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8027 

It was never really intended to fully 
fund every effort at the local level. It’s 
to give advice. That’s why I have received 
in the past, from local election 
officials in Maryland, Texas, Florida, 
and Ohio—the local experience in 
Texas, in my county there, was that we 
saved $100,000 by the suggestions and 
recommendations that were issued by 
the commission. 

Lastly, you criticize the commission 
for not functioning because it doesn’t 
have a full body of commissioners. But 
whose fault is that? It’s the individuals 
on the other side of the aisle that have 
blocked consideration. 

That reminds me. When I was a lawyer, 
we used to have an old joke about 
the individual defendant who was there 
charged with murdering his parents, 
and at the end of the trial goes before 
the jury and asks for mercy because 
he’s an orphan. It is a self-fulfilling 
prophecy. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. I yield 
the gentleman an additional 10 seconds. 


Mr. GONZALEZ. If you want to help 
your local election officials, vote ‘‘no’’ 
on this bad bill. 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
21/2 minutes to the gentleman from Indiana 
(Mr. ROKITA), who is a distinguished 
member of the Committee on 
House Administration, a former secretary 
of state for the State of Indiana, 
and he has served as president of the 
National Association of Secretaries of 
State. 

Mr. ROKITA. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding time. 

Mr. Speaker, listening to the prior 
comments, I can’t help but wonder if 
certain Members of this body can’t 
help but not do more than one thing at 
a time. But certainly, your secretaries 
of state and your local election officials 
can multitask, and they do an excellent 
job of executing the States’ 
elections. 

I want to focus on the portion of the 
bill that eliminates the Election Assistance 
Commission, Mr. Speaker. As 
has been said, I have a unique perspective 
on this. In 2005, as Indiana’s secretary 
of state, and serving as the 
president of the National Association 
of Secretaries of State, I coauthored 
the successful resolution that was 
talked about earlier to dissolve the 
EAC after the 2006 election. As the oldest 
organization of bipartisan elected 
officials in the Nation, we at NASS renewed 
the call to dissolve the commission 
in 2010. 

And, no, Mr. Speaker, I can assure 
you, from the debates that we had in 
that organization, it was not a form 
letter. It was not a form renewal. 

Furthermore, the vote for the renewal 
was 24–2, with 13 Republicans 
and 11 Democrats calling for its dissolution. 
This is not a partisan issue. 
We recognized, on a bipartisan basis, 
that the Election Assistance Commission 
cannot be justified on the grounds 

of fairness, justice, opportunity, or necessity. 


EAC bureaucrats do not make elections 
fair. In fact, EAC makes them 
less fair by producing biased, inaccurate 
reports on the state of elections 
in our Nation and offering recommendations 
based on these junk 
studies. EAC bureaucrats do not enfranchise 
voters. States and individuals 
do that, as our Federal Constitution 
dictates. 

Giving unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats 
in Washington more power 
over elections does not lead to more 
just election outcomes. If anything, it 
interferes with a just outcome because 
these bureaucrats, many with an ideological 
axe to grind, face little or no 
accountability for their actions, and 
they know it. 

Voting is fundamental to our system 
and the legitimacy of our government. 
Ensuring qualified American citizens 
have an opportunity to vote is essential. 
The Constitution tasks the States 
with execution and maintenance of 
elections, not Federal bureaucrats. 

Like I said, Mr. Speaker, I believe 
States do an excellent job. And by 
managing elections closest to the voters 
at the State and local level, we 
stand the best chance of ensuring opportunity 
for all and correcting injustice 
if the opportunity to vote is denied 
or interfered with. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Rhode Island (Mr. LANGEVIN). 


(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. LANGEVIN. As a former secretary 
of state for the State of Rhode 
Island, and now a Member of the 
United States Congress, I have serious 
concerns about this bill. 

Mr. Speaker, voter participation is 
the cornerstone of our democracy and a 
fundamental civic duty that empowers 
every citizen to effect change within 
our society. Unfortunately, many individuals 
with disabilities have been historically 
shut out of the voting process 
due to lack of accessibility. That’s 
among my particular concerns with 
this bill. 

We have made impressive strides in 
recent years to close that gap, and the 
Election Assistance Commission, established 
under the Help America Vote 
Act, was an important part of that effort. 
As a Member of Congress who 
lives with a disability, cofounded the 
bipartisan Disabilities Caucus, and has 
worked at both the State and Federal 
levels to modernize and make accessible 
our voting systems, I find it unconscionable 
that the Republican leadership 
is considering this bill to abolish 
the Election Assistance Commission, 
an agency whose fundamental mission 
is to promote security, accessibility, 
and trust in our electoral process. 

Could the EAC use some reforms? 
Yes. But the Republican solution of 
eliminating an agency with such an 

important mission is unnecessary. Everyone, 
Mr. Speaker, should have full 
faith in our system of elections including 
seniors, military members, minorities, 
and people with disabilities, and 
that’s exactly what the Election Assistance 
Commission seeks to provide. 

Mr. Speaker, we have precious little 
time left before the end of this Congressional 
session. Instead of considering 
a bill that will only serve to 
erode America’s faith in our democracy, 
our time would be far better 
spent rebuilding it by focusing on job 
creation, getting this economy back on 
track. 

I urge my colleagues to oppose this 
bill and turn our attention to legislation 
that will extend tax relief for families 
and small businesses, reduce unemployment, 
and create greater economic 
stability. That is exactly what 
my constituents expect from me, and 
that’s exactly what the American people 
expect from this Congress. 

b 1340 
Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from California 
(Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN), the 
distinguished chairman of the House 
Administration Committee. 
Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of California. 
I thank the gentleman for yielding. 
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3463 will eliminate 
the Presidential Election Campaign 
Fund and the Election Assistance Commission. 
That’s good news. The American 
people have been asking this Congress 
to get serious about spending, 
begging us to take a critical look at 
government operations and get rid of 
the dead weight. Mr. Speaker, if there 
ever was a government program or a 
government agency that is ripe for the 
cutting, it is the Presidential Election 
Campaign Fund and Election Assistance 
Commission. 
The Election Campaign Fund is an 
unused government program only supported 
by a meager 7 percent of the 
American people. In other words, 93 
percent of the American taxpayers 
have opted out of participating in this 
program. Candidates and nominees 
have routinely opted out of the system 
altogether. 
In 2008 we know then-Candidate 
Barack Obama declined public financing 
in the general election. In 2012, it’s 
expected that neither general election 
candidate will participate in the program, 
and no candidate has requested 
eligibility thus far in the election 
cycle. 
According to CBO, elimination of 
this program would save the American 
taxpayers $447 million over the next 5 
years and return nearly $200 million to 
the public Treasury for deficit reduction 
immediately. 
I know some people think $500 million 
isn’t much. Where I come from, 
that’s a lot. We can eliminate something 
that the American people have 
rejected by a vote of 93–7. It seems to 
me to make sense. 


H8028 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

Mr. Speaker, in the last Congress, 
the Committee on House Administration 
held hearings on the issue of taxpayer 
financing of campaigns. And one 
of our witnesses asked this question. 
He said, if the voters are not willing to 
pay for the program, then why should 
it continue? 

As for the Election Assistance Commission, 
this agency has been the subject 
of two hiring discrimination lawsuits, 
spends over 50 percent of its 
budget on administrative costs, and is 
asking this Congress for $5.4 million to 
manage programs totaling $3.5 million. 

In short, Mr. Speaker, this bill before 
us eliminates an unused government 
program, shuts down an obsolete government 
agency, saves the taxpayers 
$480 million over 5 years, and returns 
almost $200 million to the Treasury. 
How could we not vote for it? 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, may I inquire how much time 
we have. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Pennsylvania has 7 minutes. 
The gentleman from Mississippi 
has 21/2 minutes. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Thank 
you, Mr. Speaker. 

I yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. KUCINICH). 

Mr. KUCINICH. I thank the gentleman. 


After $5.3 billion was spent in the 2008 
Federal elections, I never heard anyone 
utter a word that said the problem we 
face today in Washington is that we 
need more private money in politics. 
Never has anyone said to me, I wish 
the super-rich had more influence over 
our government and elected officials, 
especially in campaigns for President 
and Congress. 

I never received a letter from a constituent 
that expressed a desire to get 
further away from one person-one vote 
and move closer to one corporation-one 
vote. What I have heard from my constituents 
is a deafening demand to get 
money out of politics. This bill takes 
us in the opposite direction. 

We should be chasing the moneychangers 
out of the people’s temple, 
not turning our government into an 
auction house. This legislation is upside 
down. 

Private financing of elections corrodes 
our democracy. Private contributions 
of Federal elections must end. 
Private financing equals government 
in the private interest. Public financing—
the hope of government in the 
public interest. 

We need to restore our democracy 
and end private contributions. We 
shouldn’t have any contributions from 
special interests. We need government 
of the people, by the people, and for the 
people returned to this government. 

Mr. HARPER. I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. RYAN). 

Mr. RYAN of Ohio. Let me just take 
this from 30,000 feet for a minute and 

reiterate what the gentleman from 
Ohio said. 

We have too much private money in 
the people’s House. We can’t get anything 
done now because it somehow 
may affect what Wall Street is doing. 

We had a China currency bill on the 
floor last year, 350 votes, 99 Republicans. 
We can’t even get it up for a 
vote now in the House because Wall 
Street doesn’t want it. We’re in dire 
straits with trying to balance our 
budget. 

We need to ask people making more 
than a million dollars a year to help us 
close this gap so we can reinvest back 
in our country. Nothing is happening 
because Wall Street doesn’t want it. 

We’ve got oil and gas still getting 
benefits when profits are going through 
the roof. We can’t close that loophole 
because the oil and gas industry 
doesn’t want it closed. 

There is too much private money in 
the people’s House. We need public 
funding of elections. Let every citizen 
kick in fifty or a hundred bucks, and 
we run elections by letting people on 
the airwaves making these debates, 
making these discussions having a little 
bit of money to do it. 

We’ve got to reform this country and 
set us on a path to prosperity. No wonder 
we can’t invest in public education, 
public health, public infrastructure, because 
the private interests are running 
the whole show here. 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Georgia, 
Dr. GINGREY, chairman of the Subcommittee 
on Oversight of the House 
Administration Committee. 

Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
maybe the President will listen to 
the advice of the gentleman from Ohio 
and sign up for public financing of his 
re-election effort. 

But mainly I rise today in strong 
support of the combined efforts of my 
good friends, Mr. HARPER of Mississippi 
and Mr. COLE of Oklahoma, to reduce 
Federal spending by ending the public 
financing of campaigns and conventions 
and to terminate this Election 
Assistance Commission. 

As Presidential campaigns in this 
day and age are becoming increasingly 
expensive to the tune of billions of dollars, 
the idea of having taxpayers contribute 
matching funds to them has become 
ludicrous. 

The end of this practice would save 
$617 million over 10 years, and I commend 
the gentleman from Oklahoma 
for his work to reduce spending. 

As far as the gentleman from Mississippi’s 
efforts regarding the Election 
System Commission, as a member of 
the committee of jurisdiction over 
EAC, the House Administration Committee, 
I’ve learned firsthand that this 
agency has outlived its usefulness, it’s 
mismanaged its resources, all the while 
costing taxpayers, we the taxpayers, 
millions of dollars a year. 

Mr. Speaker, the Election Assistance 
Commission budget request for 2012 devoted 
51.7 percent of its budget to man


agement overhead costs. Let’s eliminate 
this commission and support this 
bill. 

Mr. Speaker, following is my statement in its 
entirety: 

I rise today in strong support of the combined 
effort of my good friends, Mr. HARPER of 
Mississippi and Mr. COLE of Oklahoma, to reduce 
federal spending by ending the public financing 
of campaigns and conventions, and to 
terminate the Election Assistance Commission. 


As Presidential campaigns in this day and 
age have become increasingly expensive to 
the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars, the 
idea of having taxpayers contribute matching 
funds to them has become ludicrous. Ending 
this practice would save $617 million over 10 
years and I commend Mr. COLE for his work 
to reduce spending. 

As far as Mr. HARPER’s efforts regarding the 
Election Assistance Commission, as a member 
of the committee of jurisdiction over the 
EAC—the House Administration Committee—I 
have learned first-hand that this agency that 
has outlived its usefulness and mismanaged 
its resources—all while costing taxpayers millions 
of dollars a year. 

In the midst of our record levels of debt, we 
must scrutinize where every dollar of taxpayer 
money is being spent to ensure we are allocating 
these funds responsibly and delivering 
the best possible value to our citizens. 

Mr. Speaker, the Election Assistance Commission’s 
budget request for 2012 devoted 

51.7 percent of its budget to management and 
overhead costs. It should be hard for anyone 
to argue that an agency that spends $5.5 million 
dollars managing programs totaling $3.5 
million dollars is a responsible use of taxpayer 
funds. 
The EAC has more than doubled in size— 
without an increase in its responsibilities— 
since it was originally supposed to sunset in 
2005. It is long past time, Mr. Speaker, that 
we allow government programs that have outlived 
their usefulness to be shut down, rather 
than maintain unnecessary and redundant layers 
of bureaucracy. 

Eliminating this red tape would save American 
taxpayers $33 million dollars over five 
years, while at the same time preserving the 
EAC’s necessary functions—voting system 
testing and certification—at the Federal Election 
Commission, which can more efficiently 
handle these responsibilities. 

Mr. Speaker, the National Association of 
Secretaries of State—who are the direct beneficiaries 
of the EAC’s services—have themselves 
called for the EAC’s dissolution. This 
body should follow suit today. I urge all of my 
colleagues to support this bill. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished 
Democratic whip, the gentleman 
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER). 

(Mr. HOYER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. HOYER. First of all, we ought to 
be talking about jobs. The contention 
that this bill funds bills that are about 
jobs is spurious, in my opinion; and no 
economist, in my opinion, will assert 
that that is the fact. We ought to be 
dealing with jobs. 

But what are we dealing with? 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8029 

Now, I know of what I speak, I tell 
the gentleman from Georgia. I understand. 
I was a Member of the House Administration 
Committee for, I think, 
some 15 years. I, along with Bob Ney, 
was the sponsor of the Help America 
Vote Act, which created the Election 
Assistance Commission. So I know 
something about the Election Assistance 
Commission. 

It was created because in the year 
2000 we had a disastrous election which 
was resolved finally but not very acceptably 
by most people, whether your 
candidate won or lost. So the Election 
Assistance Commission was created for 
the purpose, for the first time in history, 
of having some Federal presence 
in the oversight of Federal elections. 
Not mandatory, but advisory. 

Now, what we see, frankly, throughout 
America in Republican-controlled 
legislatures in many, many States is 
an effort to make voting more difficult 
to, in my opinion, suppress the vote, to 
require more and more documentation 
of people who have already registered 
to vote and claiming problems that 
exist that do not exist. 

b 1350 
Now, if you want to obfuscate the 
election process, if you want to suppress 
the vote, if you want to make it 
more difficult, what is one of the 
things you want to do? 
Eliminate the Election Assistance 
Commission, whose responsibility it is 
to advise and counsel on best practices 
to assure that every American not only 
has the right to vote but is facilitated 
in casting that vote and in making 
sure that that vote is counted. That’s 
what the Election Assistance Commission 
does. 
And what do they want to do with 
the Election Assistance Commission’s 
responsibility? Transfer it to the Federal 
Election Commission, whose sole 
responsibility is to oversee the flow of 
money into elections. They neither 
have the expertise nor, frankly, do 
they have the time. They hardly have 
the time to do what they’re supposed 
to do right now. 
Now, the Bush administration did 
not fund the Election Assistance Commission 
very robustly. Like every 
agency, it requires and should have 
proper oversight, and should, in my 
view, be more vigorous in the carrying 
out of its responsibilities. That is not, 
however, a reason for eliminating it. 
The only reason for eliminating it is to 
make voting more obscure, with less 
oversight and less assurance to our 
citizens that they not only have the 
right to vote but that a vote will be 
cast and counted correctly. 
Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire 
as to the time remaining on both 
sides. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Mississippi has 11/2 minutes 
remaining, and the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania has 21/2 minutes remaining. 
Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to a distinguished member of 

the Judiciary Committee and a former 
judge, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
GOHMERT). 

Mr. GOHMERT. Let’s cut to the 
chase. This is a tax credit for people 
who want to contribute to the President’s 
campaign fund. They’re told you 
can check this box and it doesn’t cost 
you anything. No, but it takes $40 mil-
lion-plus a year away from the fund 
that could be used for other things, including 
for Social Security, and it 
gives it to the President’s campaign 
fund. 

I stand with our President, Barack 
Obama, on this issue, who found that 
that fund is worthless and that it’s an 
impediment to getting elected. So I 
stand with President Obama in saying 
let’s get rid of the fund and not use it 
anymore, and let the $200 million in 
that fund go to something helpful instead 
of being an impediment to being 
elected President. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of 
my time. 

The Presidential campaign fund currently 
has over $190 million. Tens of 
thousands of Americans put that 
money there. They wanted their money 
to go for this purpose. We would be 
fooling and deceiving our very own 
citizens if we were to pass this bill. 
They put that money there to be able 
to have the small say that they can— 
with their $1 or $3 or whatever it may— 
and be able to say who they would 
want to support and put it towards 
campaigns. We would be giving it back 
to the Treasury. They already put 
their money in the Treasury. This 
would be wrong, and we would be fooling 
the American people. 

We would be telling them, We told 
you to check off a box and give us X 
number of dollars for a campaign. Now 
we’re going to take $100 million of the 
money we told you to check off to use 
for that purpose, and we’re no longer 
going to use it for that purpose. 

That’s wrong. It’s not right. It’s deceptive, 
which is why I urge a ‘‘no’’ 
vote on this bill. 

OHIO ASSOCIATION OF 
ELECTION OFFICIALS, 
OCTOBER 12, 2011. 
Hon. ROB PORTMAN, 

Russell Senate Office Building, 

DEAR SENATOR PORTMAN: We are writing 
today regarding the possible elimination of 
the US Election Assistance Commission 
(EAC) as part of the Super Committee’s recommendations 
for budget reductions. The 
EAC is an independent federal agency created 
in the wake of the 2000 election to help 
solve election related problems. The EAC 
provides assistance to election officials in 
the form of best practices, guidance, and the 
testing and certification of voting systems. 
Basically, the EAC provides an outlet and 
open forum for election officials to share 
their experiences, consider alternatives, deliberate 
their outcomes, and establish continuity 
of process, thus strengthening our 
democracy by helping election officials to do 
their job well. However, if Congress has its 
way, the EAC may not provide these services 
much longer. There has been movement in 
the House to eliminate the agency since last 
year, labeling it ‘‘wasteful’’ and ‘‘unneeded.’’ 

However, election administrators on the 
local level feel differently. 

Although it has been argued that the EAC 
has outlived its usefulness because the Help 
America Vote Act funding it oversees has 
been exhausted, the EAC has become far 
more than a distributor and auditor of 
money; the EAC is a repository and resource 
of election management procedures, performance 
measures, election materials, and 
administrative knowledge. Effective designs 
of polling place signage, webinars on topics 
such as contingency planning, minority language 
glossaries of election terminology, 
Quick Start Guide publications regarding 
Developing an Audit Trail, Conducting a Recount, 
and Acceptance Testing are all pertinent 
reminders for veteran election officials 
as well as critical learning tools for those officials 
newly elected, appointed, or hired. 

The EAC is not without its issues. The 
agency’s Voting System Testing and Certification 
program was slow to develop and continues 
to struggle to certify systems in a 
timely manner. As with many federal agencies 
greater efficiencies of operation should 
be considered in order to more effectively 
produce election materials at less cost to the 
public. Also, as the EAC has grown so has its 
overhead costs and management size. These 
areas should all be addressed through greater 
Congressional oversight, not through eliminating 
the agency. 

Ironically, proponents of the elimination 
of the EAC would simply reassign the various 
function of the Commission to other 
more bureaucratic federal agencies such as 
the Federal Election Commission (FEC). 
Claims that any savings would be realized by 
its elimination are specious at best. We see 
no need to eliminate or dismantle the only 
federal resourc available to local election officials. 


The EAC has never been needed more than 
now. Election officials across Ohio and the 
United States are doing more with less and 
it’s only going to get worse. As budgets 
tighten and voting equipment ages, the 
chances of another election disaster increase. 
Without the EAC’s help, another 
Florida 2000 election may be inevitable, and 
Congress will have no one to blame but 
itself. With a total operating budget of just 
under 18 million dollars the EAC would make 
up approximately half a percent of the total 
federal operating budget: a small price to 
pay for helping protect our democracy. If 
you think a good election costs a lot, you 
should see how much a bad election costs. 

We urge you to reject these efforts as part 
of the Super Committee review of federal 
spending. 

Respectfully submitted, 

DALE FELLOWS, 

President, Ohio Association 
of Election 
Officials. 

LLYN MCCOY, 

First Vice President, 
Ohio Association of 
Election Officials. 

STATE BOARD OF ELECTIONS, 

Raleigh, NC, March 27, 2011. 

Chairman GREGG HARPER, 

Committee on House Administration, Subcommittee 
on Elections, Washington, DC. 

Ranking Member ROBERT BRADY, 

Committee on House Administration, 
Washington, DC. 

Re H.R. 672. 

GENTLEMEN: As with any governmental 
agency, commission, department or other entity, 
methods of improving efficiency, 
streamlining procedures, and modernizing 
responsiveness should all be considered to 
maintain viability for constituents. These 


H8030 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

studies would be beneficial for the Election 
Assistance Commission. However, I strongly 
oppose H.R. 672. Termination of this Commission 
is not in the best interests of the 
elections process. The EAC serves a vital 
role in the conduct of Federal elections as 
well as the smallest municipal election. During 
an election, information sharing is 
vital—from clerical administration to public 
communication. The EAC can serve as a 
clearinghouse of information so that local 
jurisdictions receive real-time, necessary 
data during the conduct of a Federal election. 


North Carolina adopted uniform procedures 
and forms for Elections Administration 
while still allowing for local input and 
decision-making that fits individual jurisdictions. 
Many of the problems Federal elections 
in the United States face can be traced 
to a lack of consistency and efficiency. The 
Election Assistance Commission (EAC) is the 
Agency that can provide that needed consistency 
and broad guidance. In fact, in its short 
history, the EAC already has adopted standards 
for voting systems that can allow for 
nationwide uniformity. Elections jurisdictions 
may use those standards as a baseline 
when choosing voting systems and vendors. 

One of the most disturbing trends occurring 
in the field of elections is the rapid 
turnover of commission officials, board 
members and elections staff. Although elections 
comprise a mere fraction of a percent 
of total budgets, the elections budgets are 
continually cut and reduced. Already understaffed, 
we are reaching a point of compromising 
our ability to adequately perform 
necessary duties. The EAC is essential, filling 
a vital role when a local jurisdiction does 
not have the personnel or equipment to conduct 
an election without assistance. 

Even more important is the status of voting 
systems and equipment. By transferring 
the certification of voting systems to the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) and the Voluntary Voting 
System Standards to the Federal Election 
Commission (FEC), the very real possibility 
emerges that there will be no communication 
or compatibility between the two efforts. 
This could lead to an impasse. Much 
progress has been made in the struggle to uplift 
voting equipment standards. The significant 
work done by the EAC will be lost 
amongst the myriad other NIST responsibilities. 


Additionally, the FEC is already overburdened, 
understaffed, and currently does not 
handle any aspect of election administration. 
How can the FEC effectively advise 
state and local officials or provide the necessary 
support and guidelines needed for full 
voter confidence in the elections process? 
Piling more responsibility on an already encumbered 
agency will only lessen its efficacy 
and will do a disservice to taxpayers. 

Perhaps a focus of this legislation should 
be to address keeping both the EAC and the 
FEC fully staffed with Commissioners so 
that each Agency has the ability to function 
at full capacity, providing much-needed 
guidance to election administrators while 
also judiciously stewarding taxpayer dollars. 
As H.R. 672 is written, there is no provision 
for the election community to provide input 
to either NIST or the FEC. This participation 
and dialogue is critical to make sure 
that all future voting systems truly meet 
the needs of the voter as well as the requirements 
and limitations of poll workers. 

The EAC has amassed the most comprehensive 
public elections library in the 
country. Their website is a wonderful tool 
for both elections officials and the general 
public. Similarly, North Carolina’s award-
winning website has been heralded as an invaluable 
resource for our citizens. These 

communications tools are an integral facet 
of the way election administrators must 
interface with the American public in this 
rapidly changing technological world. Without 
dedicated resources for the public broadcasting 
of election information and news, the 
elections process will become less transparent 
and voters will become less aware of 
processes, procedures and laws. 

Another facet of the elections process in 
North Carolina is the concept of the 
‘‘Wellness Check.’’ Wellness Checks are audits 
of our county boards of elections, serving 
as preventative maintenance to keep 
things on the right track and identify problems 
before they manifest. Results are available 
for public inspection, with the goal of 
further increasing voter confidence in elections. 
This concept could become a function 
of the EAC, be carried into other aspects of 
elections, and could further strengthen the 
integrity of and faith in the national elections 
process. 

Although elections are the responsibility 
of the States and of local jurisdictions, they 
are mandated by Federal law. Congress needs 
to do its part to ensure the Federal government 
adequately and appropriately contributes 
to local responsibilities. The EAC is an 
excellent way in which Congress may manifest 
its support. Reassigning these responsibilities 
to other, already strained entities 
will diminish the modernization progress accomplished 
during the first decade of the 
twenty-first century. 

One of the greatest gifts Congress could 
give to the nation is its continued support 
and investment into the elections modernization 
process. By stewarding and tending 
the process begun in the earlier years of 
this decade, Congress can guarantee that all 
jurisdictions; large, small and somewhere in-
between, are equally equipped to handle the 
future of elections; that each has modern 
and certified equipment; and that the resources 
are available so that every qualified 
voter in America has the same access to and 
confidence in the elections process. 

Respectfully, I ask that you reconsider the 
submission of H.R. 672. My opposition to this 
legislation has been articulated herein. 
Please do not hesitate to contact me should 
you have any questions or require further 
commentary. 

Yours sincerely, 

GARY O. BARTLETT, 

Executive Director. 

ELECTION OFFICIALS OF ARIZONA, 

October 14, 2011. 
The Next 2000 Election May be Just Around 

the Corner 
Honorable Members of Congress 

Representing the Great State of Arizona. 

Is another 2000 election disaster lurking? 
At this point it may not be a question of 
when, but rather a question of where. While 
pundits, newspapers and politicians debate 
issues like voter ID and early voting, election 
administrators across the country are 
worrying about the issues that will directly 
impact an election. The number one issue 
facing election officials today is limited and 
ever-shrinking budgets combined with aging 
equipment, technology, and workers. 

Direction on how to address these concerns 
exists . . . for now. The Election Assistance 
Commission (EAC) is an independent federal 
agency created in the wake of the 2000 election 
to help solve these problems. The EAC 
provides assistance to election officials in 
the form of best practices, guidance, and the 
testing and certification of voting systems. 
Basically, the EAC provides an outlet and 
open forum for election officials to share 
their experiences, consider alternatives, deliberate 
their outcomes, and establish con


tinuity of process thus strengthening our democracy 
by helping election officials to do 
their job well. However, if some members of 
Congress have their way, the EAC may not 
provide these services much longer. There 
has been movement in the House to eliminate 
the agency since last year, labeling it 
‘‘wasteful’’ and ‘‘unneeded.’’ However, election 
administrators on the local level feel 
differently. 

Although it has been argued that the EAC 
has outlived its usefulness because the Help 
America Vote Act funding it oversees has 
been exhausted, the EAC has become far 
more than a distributor and auditor of 
money; the EAC is a repository and resource 
of election management procedures, performance 
measures, election materials, and 
administrative knowledge. Effective designs 
of polling place signage, webinars on topics 
such as contingency planning, minority language 
glossaries of election terminology, 
Quick Start Guide publications regarding 
Developing an Audit Trail, Conducting a Recount, 
Acceptance Testing are all pertinent 
reminders for veteran election officials as 
well as critical learning tools for those officials 
newly elected, appointed, or hired. 

The EAC has never been needed more than 
now. Election officials across the United 
States are doing more with less and it’s only 
going to get worse. As budgets tighten and 
voting equipment ages, the chances of another 
disaster increase. Without the EAC’s 
help, another Florida 2000 election may be 
inevitable, and Congress will have no one to 
blame but itself. With a total operating 
budget of just under 18 million dollars the 
EAC would make up approximately half a 
percent of the total federal operating budget: 
a small price to pay for helping protect our 
democracy. If you think a good election 
costs a lot, you should see how much a bad 
election costs. 

We speak out in opposition to the dissolution 
of the EAC and the distribution of the 
remaining functions to the Federal Election 
Commission. 

Respectfully submitted for your consideration 
by the Election Officials of Arizona. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, it has 
been said that we haven’t done anything 
about jobs. Here we have a card 
that lists 25 different bills that we’ve 
passed which help manufacturing, the 
economy, energy—bills that are going 
to be great job creators. Yet the complaint 
has been that the EAC is not 
dealing with those issues. 

Members on the other side of the 
aisle who said that this is not appropriate 
and that it’s going to disenfranchise 
voters should remember they all 
voted for this in 2002 when it had its 3-
year provision to sunset after that. So 
I think that argument will not fail. In 
addition, the EAC has no regulatory or 
enforcement authority. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to 
support this important legislation, and 
I yield back the balance of my time. 

Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in strong opposition to H.R. 3463, which 
simply combines two bills, H.R. 672 and H.R. 
359, previously considered during this Congress. 
I opposed those bills then and I oppose 
them now. Terminating the Election Assistance 
commission and the Presidential Election 
Campaign Fund, is a worse idea and a greater 
waste of precious legislative time today than 
they were when the Republican majority first 
brought these bills to the floor earlier this year. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8031 

Mr. Speaker, since its creation, the Federal 
Election Commission has served the valuable 
purpose of preserving the voting and civil 
rights of our citizens which was born out of the 
scandal know as Watergate. The Presidential 
Election Campaign Fund succeeds in its purpose 
of leveling the playing field when it 
comes to corporate versus public funding of 
campaigns. By terminating taxpayer financing 
of presidential election campaigns and party 
conventions, the Republican majority seeks to 
permanently tilt the playing field in favor of 
special interest groups and corporate money 
at the expense of the public interest. 

Presidential campaigns are currently funded 
through the voluntary $3 check-off on income 
tax returns. Given the size of the deficit and 
the national debt, the amount of money saving 
by terminating taxpayer financing is de minimis—
less than $1 billion—but will achieve a 
goal long sought by conservatives who have 
never believed that public financing of campaigns 
is a permissible use of federal revenues. 


The Election Assistance Commission is 
charged with developing standards for voting 
systems, advising and counseling on best voting 
practices, assuring that every American 
has the right to vote, as well as to facilitate 
such vote, and to make sure that every single 
vote is counted. The precedent-setting work of 
the Election Assistance Commission has been 
recognized by nations around the world. The 
Election Assistance Commission has also 
played a central role in improving the accessibility 
of voting for the country’s more than 37 
million voters with disabilities. 

Let us not forget that the Election Assistance 
Commission was borne out of the 2000 
presidential election fiasco with its unforgettable 
contributions to the political lexicon: 
‘‘hanging’’ chads, ‘‘pregnant’’ chads, ‘‘dimpled’’ 
chads; ‘‘butterfly ballots’’; and ‘‘voter intent.’’ 

In response to the 2000 debacle, the Election 
Assistance Commission has performed 
valuable work to ensure the reliability and 
trustworthiness of our nation’s election systems. 
It has played a central role in collecting 
accurate and comparable election data. With 
our nation’s complex and diversified election 
administration system, central data collection 
is essential if we are going to improve our citizens’ 
trust and confidence in election results. 
The Election Assistance Commission develops 
and fosters the training and organization of 
our nation’s more than 8,000 election administrators. 


Mr. Speaker, every vote counts—and every 
vote should be counted—and that is why we 
must preserve the Election Assistance Commission 
and oppose this legislation. 

It is also important to note that abolishing 
the Election Assistance Commission will not 
save taxpayers money, but rather simply shift 
costs to the Federal Election Commission, 
FEC, and local governments. The FEC is not 
an agency that can make decisions in a timely 
and responsive fashion due to its partisan divisions. 
Consequently, transferring the functions 
performed by the Election Assistance Commission 
to the FEC is inconsistent with the national 
interest in ensuring election integrity, improving 
voter access to the polls, and enhancing 
the quality of election systems. 

Mr. Speaker, the American people elected 
us to work on their priorities and real problems, 
like the lack of jobs. They do not want 
us to waste time on inconsequential matters of 

interest only to the Tea Party. H.R. 3463 is 
unnecessary and a diversion from addressing 
the real challenge facing our country. Therefore, 
I strongly oppose H.R. 3463 and I would 
urge my colleagues to join me in defeating this 
misguided and reckless legislation that puts 
the integrity of our election systems, and public 
confidence in campaign financing at risk. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, the last thing 
we need to do in this House as this legislative 
year draws to a close is to further the corrupting 
influence of special interest money in 
presidential campaigns. But this is what the 
Republican leadership is determined to do. 

Last January, the House Republicans stampeded 
one part of this bill through the 
House—provisions that terminate the system 
of public funding of presidential campaigns 
that was established in the wake of the infamous 
Watergate scandals, under Richard Nixon’s 
presidency, nearly 40 years ago. It’s not 
enough to pass this bill once—the Republicans 
insist we pass it again today. It is not 
enough that virtually unlimited amounts of private 
money can now slosh through our political 
system—over $280 million last year alone, 
thanks to the Citizens United decision by the 
Supreme Court last year—we have to pass a 
bill that asphyxiates the supply of public 
money in our presidential campaigns. 

The Republicans are also practicing gross 
hypocrisy. While this bill ends public financing 
of presidential campaigns, the Republican 
Party is seeking $18 million in public funding 
to support their nominating convention next 
year. 

Everyone knows that this bill is dead on arrival 
in the Senate and would be vetoed by the 
President—because it is a corruption of good 
government. But that does not impede the Republican 
leadership in the House today. Rather 
than work with us on real legislation that 
would deliver real jobs, real investment and 
real growth to the American economy, the 
House Republicans would rather waste our 
time and continue to deliver nothing to the 
American people. 

To treat our democracy so cavalierly is disgraceful; 
to persist in policies that, should they 
ever become law, will result in the complete 
privatization of the political process by monied 
special interests, is shameful. 

The other part of this bill would eliminate the 
Election Assistance Commission, which was 
established in the wake of the 2000 election 
debacle in Florida. Its mission is to ensure that 
elections are conducted properly, with assistance 
that promotes voter registration, trained 
poll workers, and access to the polls by disabled 
Americans. There is no justification for 
terminating this small agency, which helps ensure 
our democracy works as intended. 

The American people, and our democratic 
processes, deserve far better than this legislation 
in the House today. 

Mr. CONNOLLY of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, 
once again, this House is taking up a proposal 
that represents a direct attack on the will of 
the American people. 

Public financing for Presidential elections, 
which began in the 1970s, is one of the few 
opportunities where Americans are allowed to 
specify how they want their tax dollars spent. 

As Members of Congress, we are charged 
with representing the interests of our constituents. 
In this particular instance, however, we 
know precisely what the American people 
want. By voluntarily checking this box on their 

tax forms, more than 10 million of our fellow 
Americans have made their intentions explicitly 
clear. The Presidential Election Campaign 
Fund exists because individual Americans expressly 
opted to dedicate a portion of their 
taxes to that purpose. 

In January, House Republicans voted to ignore 
the explicit intentions of the American 
people and eliminate the Presidential Election 
Campaign Fund. Thankfully, the Senate heard 
Americans’ call and killed the bill. And this 
year, millions of Americans again checked the 
box on their tax forms for calendar year 2010, 
once again, explicitly telling the government 
how they wanted their taxes spent. 

Ironically, our Republican colleagues cite 
their own YouCut website as a representative 
site, with at most, a few hundred thousand followers. 
They disdain 10 million citizens but revere 
the few. This is selective representation 
in its most rawest and worst form. 

The bill before us today, H.R. 3463, will 
break faith with the American people by ignoring 
their direction. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues 
to join me in defending the will of 
American taxpayers by opposing this bill. 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, while the Republican 
sponsors of the two bills before us contend 
they will create jobs, their claim is spurious. 
Economists have told us again and 
again that easing regulations has a negligible 
effect on job creation. The only thing these 
bills will do is make it harder for federal agencies 
to protect Americans through safety 
standards and environmental protections. 

One of the bills adds 35 pages to what is 
currently a 45 page law, and is likely to add 
21 to 39 months to the rulemaking process. 
Agencies will be tied in knots and leave businesses 
without the certainty they need. 

To pay for this expansion of the federal regulatory 
process, Republicans would have us 
eliminate the Election Assistance Commission. 

I was proud to be one of the authors of the 
Help America Vote Act, which established the 
EAC in order to fix the flawed system that led 
to the electoral debacle of 2000. It passed 
with a strong bipartisan vote of 357–48. The 
Commission’s sole purpose is to provide 
states with the resources they need to ensure 
everyone eligible to vote can cast their ballots 
and have them counted. We cannot risk having 
our elections determined by ‘‘hanging 
chads.’’ 

Instead of trying to erode our ability to protect 
voters, and instead of promoting regulatory 
bills that will not put Americans back to 
work, Republicans should join with Democrats 
to pass real jobs legislation. Democrats have 
two plans on the table to create jobs and grow 
our economy—the President’s American Jobs 
Act and our Make It In America plan. We 
should be debating and voting on those. 

I strongly urge the defeat of these bills and 
hope Republicans will finally set partisanship 
aside and work with us to help businesses 
hire workers and to invest in our economy’s 
future. 

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I come to the 
House floor today to reaffirm a fundamental 
value of our democracy: elections must be decided 
by the American people, not the special 
interests. I come to the floor to defend the 
right of American citizens to vote in every 
election. I come to the floor on behalf of clean 
campaigns. 

Republicans, instead, have brought to the 
floor legislation that would both diminish the 


H8032 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

voting rights of Americans and shift control of 
our elections into the hands of secret corporate 
donors. Once again, Republicans 
refuse to focus on creating jobs and strengthening 
the economy for middle-class Americans, 
the 99 percent, but are instead pursuing 
a narrow agenda to benefit special interests, 
the 1 percent. 

Last year, the Supreme Court overturned 
decades of precedent in a court case called 
the Citizens United case. Their decision has 
undermined our democracy and empowered 
the powerful by opening the floodgates to big, 
secret money, resulting in a corporate takeover 
of our elections. 

As a result, the Democratic majority in the 
Congress, working with President Obama, created 
the DISCLOSE Act. It would restore 
transparency and accountability to federal 
campaigns, and ensure that Americans know 
who is behind political advertisements. 

Democrats in the House passed the DISCLOSE 
Act, but Senate Republicans blocked 
its progress. 

As a result, secret dollars are flowing into 
campaigns that represent the interests of the 
1 percent—not the urgent national interest—to 
create jobs. Indeed, special-interest groups 
spent tens of millions of dollars more in 2010 
than any previous election cycle. 

Today, Republicans want to take it another 
step further. The anti-reform legislation we debate 
today strengthens the role of foreign-
owned entities and large corporations in funding 
political campaigns by eliminating the 
Presidential Election Fund. For nearly 30 
years, the Fund has promoted small campaign 
donations and disclosure. It should be 
strengthened and reformed, not eliminated. 

Likewise, the legislation also eliminates the 
Election Assistance Commission, which was 
created in the aftermath of 2000 elections. 
The EAC should also be strengthened, especially 
as states across the nation are taking 
active efforts to enact partisan measures to 
disenfranchise the rights of American voters. 

According to the Brennan Center for Justice 
at NYU: since the 2010 elections, almost 34 
states have introduced voting legislation in 
2011 that significantly impacts access to voting. 
These laws have the potential of eliminating 
or making voting harder for more than 
5 million Americans—harming millions of minorities, 
and hindering the rights of seniors, 
students, and low income voters. 

This legislation is opposed by a broad range 
of good government organizations, from the 
League of Women Voters, to Americans for 
Campaign Reform, to Democracy 21, and U.S. 
PIRG. In a letter, they have warned against a 
2012 presidential campaign ‘‘being dominated 
by bundlers, big donors, Super PACs, candidate-
specific Super PACs, secret contributions 
and the like.’’ 

Further, polls have found that more than 70 
percent of the American people support the 
continuation of the presidential public financing 
system. 

In our democracy, voters determine the outcome 
of our elections—not special interests. 

I urge my colleagues to oppose this effort to 
further empower the special interests—the 1 
percent—in American elections—and to protect 
the right to vote for all Americans. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time 
for debate has expired. 

Pursuant to House Resolution 477, 
the previous question is ordered on the 
bill. 

The question is on the engrossment 
and third reading of the bill. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, and was read the 
third time. 

Pursuant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, 
further consideration of H.R. 3463 is 
postponed. 

RECESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair 
declares the House in recess for a period 
of less than 15 minutes. 

Accordingly (at 1 o’clock and 56 minutes 
p.m.), the House stood in recess 
subject to the call of the Chair. 

b 1405 

AFTER RECESS 

The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker pro 
tempore (Mr. DENHAM) at 2 o’clock and 
5 minutes p.m. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 3463) to 
reduce Federal spending and the deficit 
by terminating taxpayer financing of 
presidential election campaigns and 
party conventions and by terminating 
the Election Assistance Commission, 
will now resume. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

MOTION TO RECOMMIT 

Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
I have a motion to recommit at the 
desk. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the 
gentleman opposed to the bill? 

Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. I am in its 
present form. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will report the motion to recommit. 


The Clerk read as follows: 

Mr. Bishop of Georgia moves to recommit 
the bill H.R. 3463 to the Committee on House 
Administration with instructions to report 
the same back to the House forthwith with 
the following amendment: 

Add at the end the following new section: 

SEC. 207. PROTECTIONS FOR ELDERLY, DISABLED, 
AND MILITARY VOTERS. 

Notwithstanding any provision of this Act 
or any amendment made by this Act, to the 
extent that the Election Assistance Commission 
is responsible for the administration or 
enforcement of any of the following provisions 
of law as of the Commission termination 
date described in section 1004(a) of the 
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (as added by 
section 201(a)), any successor to the Commission 
shall remain responsible for the administration 
or enforcement of such provisions 
after such date: 

(1) Any provision of law relating to the 
rights of the elderly to vote and cast ballots 
in elections for Federal office. 
(2) Any provision of law relating to the 
rights of the elderly and other individuals 
who are registered to vote in elections for 
Federal office to obtain absentee ballots in 
such elections. 
(3) Any provision of law relating to the access 
of the elderly, the disabled, and other 
individuals to polling places in elections for 
Federal office, including the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990. 
(4) Any provision of law relating to the 
protection of the rights of members of the 
uniformed services and overseas citizens to 
vote and cast ballots in elections for Federal 
office, including the Uniformed and Overseas 
Citizens Absentee Voting Act. 

(5) Any other provision of law relating to 
the protection of the right of citizens of the 
United States to vote in elections for Federal 
office, including the Voting Rights Act 
of 1965. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the rule, the gentleman from 
Georgia is recognized for 5 minutes in 
support of his motion. 

Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker 
and my colleagues, I offer the final 
amendment of the bill which, if adopted, 
will not kill the bill or send it back 
to committee. Instead, the bill will 
proceed to final passage, as amended. 
The purpose of my amendment is simple. 
It deals with one of my most valuable 
rights as an American citizen. 

It is a right which many Americans 
throughout the course of our history 
have shared blood, sweat, and tears to 
protect, including our colleague and 
my dear friend, Representative JOHN 
LEWIS of Georgia. He marched from 
Selma to Montgomery and endured 
billy clubs, horses, and tear gas to preserve 
this sacred right. 

The right to which I’m referring is 
the right to vote, as enshrined in the 
14th Amendment to the Constitution 
and further protected in the landmark 
Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Help 
America Vote Act of 2002 and various 
other measures. 

Today, nearly five decades after the 
Voting Rights Act was signed into law 
and nearly 10 years since the Help 
America Vote Act, there is still an unprecedented 
attack on voting rights in 
States across this country. 

Yet, the underlying legislation before 
the House today would abolish one of 
the key provisions of the Help America 
Vote Act, the Election Assistance Commission, 
which was designed to avoid a 
repeat of the turmoil surrounding the 
2000 Presidential election in Florida, 
where problems with absentee and 
military ballots played a large role and 
led to many of these ballots not being 
counted. 

If the commission is abolished, it will 
undermine America’s faith in the integrity 
of our elections. According to 
the Brennan Center for Justice, more 
than 5 million Americans in 2012 could 
be adversely impacted by laws that 
tighten or restrict voting that were put 
into effect just this year. The number 
is larger than the margin of victory in 
two of the last Presidential elections. 

Seniors, the disabled, and our Nation’s 
veterans are now being turned 
away from the polls for not having the 
photo identification. Popular reforms 
like early voting and same-day voter 
registration are being rolled back. 

b 1410 

Mr. Speaker, this situation should 
not be happening in the United States 
of America today. 

My final amendment, therefore, is 
simple. It states that any successor to 
the Election Assistance Commission 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8033 

shall remain responsible for the administration 
or enforcement of laws relating 
to the rights of the elderly, the disabled, 
members of the uniformed services, 
and overseas citizens to vote and 
cast ballots in elections for Federal office. 


In signing the Voting Rights Act of 
1965, President Lyndon Johnson said 
that ‘‘the vote is the most powerful instrument 
ever devised by man for 
breaking down injustice and destroying 
the terrible walls which imprison men 
because they are different from other 
men.’’ 

If this final amendment is approved, 
we can continue to tear down the walls 
of injustice and ensure that our democracy 
is open for all Americans to deliberate, 
to participate, and to engage 
with each other. 

I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes,’’ 
and I yield the balance of my time to 
my colleague, Representative MARCIA 
FUDGE of Ohio. 

Ms. FUDGE. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. 

Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, there 
is no doubt that a concerted voter suppression 
effort is under way in this Nation. 
Abolishing the Election Assistance 
Commission, an agency charged 
with ensuring that the vote of every 
American counts, is just another step 
in the voter suppression effort and 
would completely remove oversight of 
the most important process in our democracy. 


Does it make sense to remove oversight 
at a time when Republican-led 
legislatures across this Nation are 
passing laws to obstruct voting? No, it 
absolutely does not. 

In the first three quarters of 2011, 19 
new State laws and two executive actions 
were enacted to limit the ability 
of American citizens to vote. They 
would make it significantly harder for 
more than 5 million eligible voters to 
cast ballots in 2012. 

Many of the bills, including one 
signed into law in my home State of 
Ohio, include the most drastic voter restrictions 
since before the Voting 
Rights Act of 1965. 

Seniors will be denied their right to 
the franchise, and the disabled will find 
it more difficult to vote. Minorities 
and students will face more challenges 
than ever before. Soldiers honorably 
serving our country will be left with 
their absentee ballots uncounted. And 
let’s not forget the people who died for 
our right to vote. People were slain to 
create the rights we enjoy today. 

This determined effort is really about 
targeting a specific population of eligible 
voters to change the outcome of the 
2012 elections. Plain and simple, H.R. 
3463 is yet another voter suppression 
tactic. 

Join me today in supporting this 
final amendment to guarantee the 
right of every American citizen to cast 
their vote. 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
opposition to this motion. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Mississippi is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

Johnson (GA) Moore Schakowsky 
Johnson, E. B. Moran Schiff

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I am 

amazed that an argument could be 

Jones Murphy (CT) Schradermade that in any way the elimination Kaptur Nadler Schwartz 

of the EAC would result in Keating Napolitano Scott (VA) 
Kildee Neal

disenfranchising any voter. We all be-Scott, David 

Kind Olver 

Serrano

lieve that every person who should 

Kissell Owens 

Sewell

vote, that needs to vote, that’s allowed Kucinich Pallone 

Sherman 
to vote, that wants to vote should be Langevin Pascrell Shuler

Larsen (WA) Pastor (AZ)

allowed to do so. Sires

Larson (CT) PayneI would like to point out that all of Lee (CA) Pelosi 

Slaughter 
Smith (WA)

those that are speaking in opposition Levin Perlmutter 
Lewis (GA) Peters 

Speier

that were here in 2002 when HAVA 

Stark 
passed voted for HAVA. And in HAVA, Sutton 

Lipinski Peterson 

Loebsack Pingree (ME) 
it contained the provision that created Lofgren, Zoe Polis Thompson (CA) 
the EAC, which was only supposed to 

Lowey Price (NC) Thompson (MS) 
Luja´n Quigley Tierney

last for 3 years. This is not a com-

Lynch Rahall Tonko 
plicated lift to do away with this. Does Maloney Rangel Towns 

that mean when they voted for this in Markey Reyes Tsongas 
Matheson Richardson

2002 that they were trying to disenfran-Van Hollen 

Matsui Richmond ´

Velazquez

chise voters? Obviously not. In no way 

McCarthy (NY) Ross (AR) 

Visclosky

is this intended to do anything but McCollum Rothman (NJ) 

Walz (MN)
clean up an agency that has an average Wasserman

McDermott Roybal-Allard 
McGovern Ruppersberger

employee salary of $106,000 a year, has Schultz

McIntyre Rush 

Waters

been sued for political discrimination, McNerney Ryan (OH) 
problems with the military, an agency Meeks Sa´nchez, Linda Watt 

Welch

Michaud T.

that cannot be corrected but needs to 

Wilson (FL) 
be eliminated. Yarmuth

Miller (NC) Sanchez, Loretta 

Miller, George Sarbanes 
I urge my colleagues to vote against 
this motion to recommit and to sup-NAYS—236 
port this bill. Adams Fincher Latham 
Aderholt Fitzpatrick LaTourette

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Akin Flake Latta

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without 

Alexander Fleischmann Lewis (CA) 
objection, the previous question is or-Amash Fleming LoBiondo 
dered on the motion to recommit. 

Amodei Flores Long 
Austria Forbes Lucas

There was no objection. 

Bachus Fortenberry Luetkemeyer 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Barletta Foxx Lummis 
question is on the motion to recommit. 

Bartlett Franks (AZ) Lungren, Daniel 
Barton (TX) Frelinghuysen E.

The question was taken; and the 

Bass (NH) Gallegly Mack 
Speaker pro tempore announced that Benishek Gardner Manzullo 

the noes appeared to have it. Berg Garrett Marchant 

Biggert Gerlach Marino

Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 

Bilbray Gibbs McCarthy (CA)
on that I demand the yeas and nays. Bilirakis Gibson McCaul 
The yeas and nays were ordered. Bishop (UT) Gingrey (GA) McClintock 
Black Gohmert McCotter

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-

Blackburn Goodlatte McHenryant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair Bonner Gosar McKeon 

will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum Bono Mack Gowdy McKinley 
Boustany Granger McMorris

time for any electronic vote on the 

Brady (TX) Graves (GA) Rodgers

question of passage. 

Brooks Graves (MO) Meehan 
The vote was taken by electronic de-Broun (GA) Griffin (AR) Mica 
vice, and there were—yeas 190, nays 

Buchanan Griffith (VA) Miller (FL) 
Bucshon Grimm Miller (MI)

236, not voting 7, as follows: 

Buerkle Guinta Miller, Gary 

[Roll No. 872] Burgess Guthrie Mulvaney 

Burton (IN) Hall Murphy (PA)

YEAS—190 

Calvert Hanna Myrick 
Ackerman Clarke (NY) Farr Camp Harper Neugebauer 
Altmire Clay Fattah Campbell Harris Noem 
Andrews Cleaver Filner Canseco Hastings (WA) Nugent 
Baca Clyburn Frank (MA) Cantor Hayworth Nunes 
Baldwin Cohen Fudge Capito Heck Nunnelee 
Barrow Connolly (VA) Garamendi Carter Hensarling Olson 
Bass (CA) Conyers Gonzalez Cassidy Herger Palazzo 
Becerra Cooper Green, Al Chabot Herrera Beutler Paulsen 
Berkley Costa Green, Gene Chaffetz Huelskamp Pearce 
Berman Costello Grijalva Coble Huizenga (MI) Pence 
Bishop (GA) Courtney Gutierrez Coffman (CO) Hultgren Petri 
Bishop (NY) Critz Hahn Cole Hunter Pitts 
Blumenauer Crowley Hanabusa Conaway Hurt Platts 
Boren Cuellar Hastings (FL) Cravaack Issa Poe (TX) 
Boswell Cummings Heinrich Crawford Jenkins Pompeo 
Brady (PA) Davis (CA) Higgins Crenshaw Johnson (IL) Posey 
Braley (IA) Davis (IL) Himes Culberson Johnson (OH) Price (GA) 
Brown (FL) DeFazio Hinchey Davis (KY) Johnson, Sam Quayle 
Butterfield DeGette Hinojosa Denham Jordan Reed 
Capps DeLauro Hirono Dent Kelly Rehberg 
Capuano Deutch Hochul DesJarlais King (IA) Reichert 
Cardoza Dicks Holden Diaz-Balart King (NY) Renacci 
Carnahan Dingell Holt Dold Kingston Ribble 
Carney Doggett Honda Dreier Kinzinger (IL) Rigell 
Carson (IN) Donnelly (IN) Hoyer Duffy Kline Rivera 
Castor (FL) Doyle Inslee Duncan (SC) Labrador Roby 
Chandler Edwards Israel Duncan (TN) Lamborn Roe (TN) 
Chu Ellison Jackson (IL) Ellmers Lance Rogers (AL) 
Cicilline Engel Jackson Lee Emerson Landry Rogers (KY) 
Clarke (MI) Eshoo (TX) Farenthold Lankford Rogers (MI) 


H8034 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

Rohrabacher Shuster Walberg 
Rokita Simpson Walden 
Rooney Smith (NE) Walsh (IL) 
Ros-Lehtinen Smith (NJ) Webster 
Roskam Smith (TX) 

West 
Ross (FL) Southerland 

Westmoreland 

Royce Stearns 

Whitfield 

Runyan Stivers 

Wilson (SC)

Ryan (WI) Stutzman 

Wittman

Scalise Sullivan 

Wolf

Schilling Terry 

Womack

Schock Thompson (PA) 

Woodall

Schweikert Thornberry 

Yoder

Scott (SC) Tiberi 
Scott, Austin Tipton 

Young (AK) 
Sensenbrenner Turner (NY) Young (FL) 
Sessions Turner (OH) Young (IN) 
Shimkus Upton 

NOT VOTING—7 

Bachmann Paul Woolsey 
Giffords Schmidt 
Hartzler Waxman 

b 1442 

Mrs. BLACKBURN and Mr. HALL 
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to 
‘‘nay.’’ 

So the motion to recommit was rejected. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
Stated for: 

Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, on December 
1, 2011, I was unavoidably detained and was 
unable to record my vote for rollcall No. 872. 
Had I been present I would have voted 
‘‘yea’’—On Motion to Recommit with Instructions. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the passage of the bill. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 

Speaker, I demand a recorded vote. 
A recorded vote was ordered. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 

5-minute vote. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 235, noes 190, 
not voting 8, as follows: 

[Roll No. 873] 
AYES—235 

Adams Canseco Forbes 
Aderholt Cantor Fortenberry 
Akin Capito Foxx 
Alexander Carter Franks (AZ) 
Amash Cassidy Frelinghuysen 
Amodei Chabot Gallegly 
Austria Chaffetz Gardner 
Bachus Coble Garrett 
Barletta Coffman (CO) Gerlach 
Bartlett Cole Gibbs 
Barton (TX) Conaway Gibson 
Bass (NH) Cravaack Gingrey (GA) 
Benishek Crawford Goodlatte 
Berg Crenshaw Gosar 
Biggert Culberson Gowdy 
Bilbray Davis (KY) Granger 
Bilirakis Denham Graves (GA) 
Bishop (UT) Dent Graves (MO) 
Black DesJarlais Griffin (AR) 
Blackburn Diaz-Balart Griffith (VA) 
Bonner Dold Grimm 
Bono Mack Dreier Guinta 
Boustany Duffy Guthrie 
Brady (TX) Duncan (SC) Hall 
Brooks Duncan (TN) Hanna 
Broun (GA) Ellmers Harper 
Buchanan Emerson Harris 
Bucshon Farenthold Hastings (WA) 
Buerkle Fincher Hayworth 
Burgess Fitzpatrick Heck 
Burton (IN) Flake Hensarling 
Calvert Fleischmann Herger 
Camp Fleming Herrera Beutler 
Campbell Flores Huelskamp 

Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurt 
Issa 
Jenkins 
Johnson (IL) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jordan 
Kelly 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Labrador 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Landry 
Lankford 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Latta 
Lewis (CA) 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
Lungren, Daniel 

E. 
Mack 
Manzullo 
Marchant 
Marino 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McCotter 
McHenry 
McKeon 
McKinley 
McMorris 

Rodgers 

Ackerman 
Altmire 
Andrews 
Baca 
Baldwin 
Barrow 
Bass (CA) 
Becerra 
Berkley 
Berman 
Bishop (GA) 
Bishop (NY) 
Blumenauer 
Boren 
Boswell 
Brady (PA) 
Braley (IA) 
Brown (FL) 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Cardoza 
Carnahan 
Carney 
Carson (IN) 
Castor (FL) 
Chandler 
Chu 
Cicilline 
Clarke (MI) 
Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly (VA) 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Costello 
Courtney 
Critz 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis (IL) 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
DeLauro 
Deutch 
Dicks 

Meehan 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Miller, Gary 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (PA) 
Myrick 
Neugebauer 
Noem 
Nugent 
Nunes 
Nunnelee 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Paulsen 
Pearce 
Pence 
Petri 
Pitts 
Platts 
Poe (TX) 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price (GA) 
Quayle 
Reed 
Rehberg 
Reichert 
Renacci 
Ribble 
Rigell 
Rivera 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross (FL) 
Royce 

NOES—190 

Dingell 
Doggett 
Donnelly (IN) 
Doyle 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Farr 
Fattah 
Filner 
Frank (MA) 
Fudge 
Garamendi 
Gonzalez 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 
Hanabusa 
Hastings (FL) 
Heinrich 
Higgins 
Himes 
Hinchey 
Hinojosa 
Hirono 
Hochul 
Holden 
Holt 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Inslee 
Israel 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson Lee 

(TX) 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Jones 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kildee 
Kind 
Kissell 
Kucinich 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 

Runyan 
Ryan (WI) 
Scalise 
Schilling 
Schock 
Schweikert 
Scott (SC) 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Southerland 
Stearns 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Sullivan 
Terry 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Turner (NY) 
Turner (OH) 
Upton 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walsh (IL) 
Webster 
West 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) 

Lewis (GA) 
Lipinski 
Loebsack 
Lofgren, Zoe 
Lowey 
Luja´n 
Lynch 
Maloney 
Markey 
Matheson 
Matsui 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McIntyre 
Meeks 
Michaud 
Miller (NC) 
Miller, George 
Moore 
Moran 
Murphy (CT) 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Olver 
Owens 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters 
Peterson 
Pingree (ME) 
Polis 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Reyes 
Richardson 
Richmond 
Ross (AR) 
Rothman (NJ) 
Roybal-Allard 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 

Sa´nchez, Linda Shuler Van Hollen 

T. Sires Vela´zquez 
Sanchez, Loretta Slaughter Visclosky 
Sarbanes Smith (WA) Walz (MN) 
Schakowsky Speier 
Wasserman 
Schiff Stark 

Schultz 

Schrader Sutton 

Waters 

Schwartz Thompson (CA) 

Watt

Scott (VA) Thompson (MS) 

Welch

Scott, David Tierney 

Wilson (FL)

Serrano Tonko 

Woolsey

Sewell Towns 

Yarmuth

Sherman Tsongas 

NOT VOTING—8 

Bachmann Hartzler Schmidt 
Giffords McNerney Waxman 
Gohmert Paul 

b 1449 
Mr. RUSH changed his vote from 
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 
So the bill was passed. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY 
IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2011 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I 
ask unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise 
and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on H.R. 527. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
WEBSTER). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 477 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in 
the Committee of the Whole House on 
the state of the Union for the consideration 
of the bill, H.R. 527. 

b 1450 

IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE 

Accordingly, the House resolved 
itself into the Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union for the 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 527) to 
amend chapter 6 of title 5, United 
States Code (commonly known as the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act), to ensure 
complete analysis of potential impacts 
on small entities of rules, and for other 
purposes, with Mr. DENHAM in the 
chair. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the 
bill is considered read the first time. 

General debate shall be confined to 
the bill and shall not exceed 1 hour, 
with 40 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on 
the Judiciary, and 20 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Small Business. 

The gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
SMITH) and the gentleman from Michigan 
(Mr. CONYERS) each will control 20 
minutes. The gentleman from Missouri 
(Mr. GRAVES) and the gentlewoman 
from New York (Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ) each 
will control 10 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. SMITH). 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 



December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8035 

America’s economic recovery remains 
sluggish, with the unemployment 
rate still at 9 percent. Jobs are 
the key to economic recovery, and 
small businesses are the primary job 
creators in America. 

A study for the Small Business Administration 
found that regulations 
cost the American economy $1.75 trillion 
annually, or over $15,000 per household. 


Mr. Chairman, while job creators suffer 
under the weight of these regulations, 
Federal employees are visibly 
writing even more to implement the 
mandates of new laws like ObamaCare 
and Dodd-Frank. The same study also 
found that the cost of regulatory compliance 
is disproportionately higher for 
small businesses. This hurts their ability 
to create jobs for Americans. 

Last month a Gallup poll found that 
small business owners consider ‘‘complying 
with government regulations’’ 
as the ‘‘most important problem’’ they 
face. 

On February 8, 2011, I introduced H.R. 
527, the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011, to provide urgently 
needed help to small businesses. 
Mr. GRAVES and Mr. COBLE are original 
cosponsors along with the bill’s 24 additional 
cosponsors. 

This bill primarily reinforces the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 and 
the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement 
Fairness Act of 1996. 

It only requires agencies to do what 
current law and common sense dictate 
that they should be doing. Current law 
requires agencies to prepare a regulatory 
flexibility analysis so agencies 
will know how a proposed regulation 
will affect small businesses before it is 
adopted. But the Government Accountability 
Office has found in numerous 
studies that agencies are not always 
adhering to these laws. 

For example, current law allows an 
agency to avoid preparing a regulatory 
flexibility analysis if the agency head 
certifies that the new rule will not 
have a significant economic impact on 
a substantial number of small businesses. 
But these terms are not defined 
in the law, and agencies routinely take 
advantage of this and fail to prepare 
any analysis. 

The bill fixes this problem by requiring 
the Small Business Administration 
to define these terms uniformly for all 
agencies. Also, it requires agencies to 
justify a certification in detail and to 
give the legal and factual grounds for 
the certification. And this bill restricts 
agencies’ ability to waive the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act’s requirements. 

The legislation also requires agencies 
to document all economic impacts, direct 
and indirect, that a new regulation 
could have on small businesses. 
Agencies already must account for indirect 
economic impacts under the National 
Environmental Policy Act. 
Small businesses deserve the same 
level of scrutiny. 

This bill assures that small businesses 
will have a voice in the regu


latory process. Currently, only three 
agencies, the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration, the Environmental 
Protection Agency, and the 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
must consult with small business advocacy 
review panels before issuing new 
major regulations. Building on this, 
the bill requires all agencies to use advocacy 
review panels. 

Equally important, this bill strengthens 
requirements that agencies review 
and improve existing regulations whenever 
possible to lower the burden on 
small business. It enhances the Small 
Business Administration’s ability to 
comment on and help shape major 
rules. It assures that the law is uniformly 
implemented so agencies can 
not interpret their way out of its requirements. 
And the bill improves judicial 
review. 

Some critics of regulatory reform 
may claim that this bill undermines 
agencies’ ability to issue new regulations. 
On the contrary, the bill only 
strengthens the existing law with carefully 
tailored commonsense reforms. 

Especially in light of current economic 
conditions, this bill is a timely 
and logical step to protect small businesses 
from overregulation. Like the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 and 
the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement 
Fairness Act of 1996, the 
Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011 recognizes that economic 
growth ultimately depends on job creators, 
not regulators. 

The economy is already on shaky 
footing. It is more important than ever 
for regulators to look before they leap 
to impose more regulations. I urge my 
colleagues to support the bill, and I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I would just like to point out that 
the Crain study referred to already by 
the distinguished chairman of the committee, 
apparently he hasn’t found out 
that it’s been held in error in a number 
of ways but mostly by the Crain study 
people themselves, who said that their 
analysis was not meant to be a decisionmaking 
tool for lawmakers or Federal 
regulatory agencies to use in 
choosing the right level of regulation. 

In other words, the study is flawed 
because it fails to account for any benefits 
of regulation. So I want everybody 
to know that this correction 
about $1.75 trillion has been thoroughly 
debunked by not only CRS but other 
authorities as well. 

Now, this debate follows a number of 
pieces of legislation that we’re considering. 
It’s sort of a regulation tidal 
wave—or anti-regulation tidal wave: 

H.R. 3010, Regulatory Accountability; 
H.R. 10, which we will see soon, the 
REINS Act; and H.R. 527, the bill before 
us now, the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act. 
b 1500 

Now, it’s strange to say that this trio 
of public safety-killing legislation 

would make it harder to control and 
make safe our products that we count 
on. Under the law presently, rule-
making must make an analysis for 
every new rule that would have a significant 
economic impact on small 
businesses. Among other things, the 
bill would repeal the authority that allows 
the agency to waive or delay this 
analysis in response to even an emergency. 
It’s hard to imagine how the bill 
under consideration would make regulations 
more cumbersome, would take 
longer, would risk national emergencies, 
and would lose a lot of the 
safety and health protections that we 
now enjoy. I feel that there hasn’t been 
a careful consideration of what the real 
final goal is. 

The Wall Street Journal, which is no 
enemy of big business, said: The main 
reason United States companies are reluctant 
to step up hiring is scant demand 
rather than uncertainty over 
government policies. 

So even the business community recognizes 
that the big problem with our 
economy is not that rules are tying up 
businesses but that we don’t have 
enough people buying, because they 
don’t have enough jobs to create the 
demand. If you examine it carefully, as 
many on our Committee on the Judiciary 
have done, you will find that the 
safety standards of which we are really 
very proud are going to be compromised 
in a very embarrassing way. 

Regulations don’t kill jobs; they save 
lives. 

There are plans underway—this is 
one of them—here in the House to undermine 
the regulatory process that 
guarantees the health and the safety of 
millions of Americans. I urge all of the 
Members of the House to carefully consider 
the direction of this bill. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from 
North Carolina (Mr. COBLE), the chairman 
of the Courts, Commercial and Administrative 
Law Subcommittee of the 
Judiciary Committee. 

Mr. COBLE. I thank the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. SMITH) for having 
yielded to me. 

Mr. Chairman, those who oppose H.R. 
527 insist that those of us who support 
it are willing to compromise health 
and safety standards. Since criticism is 
not justified, we simply are refining 
the process. Excessive regulations and 
bad regulations serve no good purpose. 

My district is not unlike many others. 
We are still suffering from the recession. 
While we once claimed many 
manufacturing and producing distinctions, 
much of our manufacturing has 
either disappeared or has gone to other 
places. Bad regulations don’t help matters. 
They create unnecessary costs, 
uncertainty for employers, do not improve 
public health or safety, and they 
are particularly burdensome for small 
businesses. 

Two critical laws that help ensure 
regulators will take into account the 
impact of proposed regulations on 


H8036 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

small businesses are the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act and the Small Business 
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act. 
In essence, these laws require agencies 
to conduct economic impact analyses 
of proposed rules on small businesses. 
Unfortunately, regulators routinely 
utilize waivers and exceptions from 
both laws and promulgate regulations 
without taking into account their economic 
impacts on small businesses. 

The Regulatory Flexibility Act and 
the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement 
Fairness Act do not block 
the flow of Federal regulation. They, 
rather, help guide it. We need regulations 
and small businesses need regulations, 
but the regulations must be effective 
and efficient or they could do 
more harm than good. 

H.R. 527 will improve future regulations 
by requiring agencies to conduct 
the economic impact analyses of proposed 
regulations on small businesses 
before they are implemented. In doing 
so, it will enhance the basic requirements 
of the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act and of the Small Business Regulatory 
Enforcement Fairness Act, and 
it will extend the advocacy review 
panel requirements to all agencies, including 
to all of the independent agencies. 
The Administrative Procedure Act 
was not intended to create a regime 
whereby executive agencies could implement 
a regulation without recourse. 
Unfortunately, there are countless situations 
in which agencies have implemented 
rules and regulations that are 
unnecessary, redundant, or 
unjustifiably costly. H.R. 527 will help 
ensure that agencies do not overlook 
the critical interests of small businesses, 
and it will help prevent agencies 
from promulgating wasteful regulations. 


Finally, the Congressional Budget Office 
estimated that H.R. 527 will cost 
$80 million between 2012 and 2016. Although 
there may not be a quantifiable 
means to assess the benefits of H.R. 
527, from the perspective of a small 
business, they are, indeed, priceless. 
Also, it’s important to note that, 
among many others, the National Taxpayers 
Union, the National Association 
of Independent Business, the United 
States Chamber of Commerce, and the 
National Association of Manufacturers 
have endorsed H.R. 527. 

H.R. 527 is critical for small businesses, 
Mr. Chairman, and it will not 
impede the ability of agencies to promulgate 
regulations. This is good government 
legislation. We do not need 
more regulation. We need better regulations, 
which is exactly what H.R. 527 
will achieve; so I urge support in the 
final passage of this bill. 
Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 5 minutes to the ranking 
member of the Courts, Commercial 
and Administrative Law Subcommittee, 
the gentleman from Tennessee, 
STEVE COHEN. 

Mr. COHEN. I want to thank the 
ranking member for yielding time. 

This bill amends the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act of 1980, which requires 
agencies to engage in so much analysis 
and in so many new procedures that it 
basically befuddles the agencies in 
bringing forth any rules in the future. 
It is elimination by burdensome regulation. 
While it doesn’t say it is eliminating 
rules, that’s the effect of it. It 
subjects all major rules and other 
rules, those which have a significant 
economic impact on a substantial number 
of small entities, to review by 
small business review panels. 

The cumulative effect of these and 
other changes in H.R. 527 will be to undermine 
the ability of agencies to effectively 
regulate consumer health and 
product safety, environmental protection, 
workplace safety, and financial 
services industry misconduct, among 
other critical concerns. 

We talk about small businesses. 
Small businesses are important, and 
they create more jobs than any other 
sector of our economy, but small businesses 
are made up of human beings. 
To paraphrase Mitt Romney, who said 
that corporations are people, small 
businesses are people, too. Small businesses 
are concerned about consumer 
health and product safety because they 
are the victims of it. Small businesses 
are concerned about environmental 
protection and workplace safety and 
food and drug safety and, certainly, 
about financial services industry misconduct, 
which almost brought this 
country to its knees in what could 
have been a depression but for the 
work of our great President and the 
Congress that worked with him at that 
time. 

This bill does little to help small 
businesses shape or comply with Federal 
regulations. Right now, we can 
take for granted that the food we eat, 
the water we drink, the air we breathe, 
the places we work, the planes we fly 
on, the cars we drive, and the bank accounts 
in which we put our savings are 
going to be safe because we have strong 
regulation; but if H.R. 527 is enacted, it 
will be harder, much more difficult, 
maybe impossible, to provide those 
protections for future generations. 

b 1510 

H.R. 527 is based on the well-intentioned, 
but false, premise that regulations 
result in economically stifling 
costs. 
In particular, proponents of H.R. 527, 
and of anti-regulatory legislation generally, 
of which we have seen an abundance 
in this Congress, repeatedly cite 
a thoroughly debunked study by economists 
Mark and Nicole Crain, which 
made the ridiculous claim that Federal 
regulations impose a $1.57 trillion cost 
on the economy. 

Ridiculous? Why, you say. Because 
they even admitted, and the Congressional 
Research Service said, it failed 
to account for any benefits of regulation. 
There are indeed benefits of regulation 
and great—and the Office of 
Management and Budget said great 
benefits outweigh costs. 

Moreover, the study was never intended 
to be a decisionmaking tool for 
lawmakers or Federal regulatory agencies 
to use in choosing the right level 
of regulation. But they still use that as 
the basis for this law. 

So let’s focus on the real facts. 

H.R. 527 will bring agency rule-
making to a halt because of multiple 
layers of bureaucratic review and analysis 
that it adds to the rulemaking 
process. It is the de facto end of regulations. 
As Sherwood Boehlert, a colleague of 
mine here in Congress, of the previous 
Congresses from the State of New York 
and a Republican and a long time chair 
of the House Science Committee, recently 
warned, this measure ignores 
history—Newt Gingrich—‘‘ignores history, 
larding the system with additional 
reviews based on previous efforts 
that have slowed progress while helping 
nobody.’’ 

Second, the bill clearly presents a serious 
threat to public health and safety 
for all Americans. It does this by eliminating 
the emergency authority that 
currently allows agencies to waive or 
delay certain analyses so they can expeditiously 
respond to national crises 
such as a massive oil spill, or a nationwide 
outbreak of food poisoning, or an 
emerging financial marketplace meltdown. 
We’ve experienced all of these. 

The priority in the face of an emergency 
is to have emergency agencies to 
say, sorry, we can’t do this. We have to 
conduct regulatory analysis first before 
we aid the American people. 

H.R. 527 is simply chock full of crafty 
provisions to slow down rulemaking, 
requiring small business advocacy review 
panels to analyze rules promulgated 
by all agencies, and not just 
those from the three agencies for which 
review panels are currently required. 
Moreover, it would require review panels 
for all major rules, not just those 
that have a significant economic impact 
on a substantial number of small 
entities. And this bill would force agencies 
to engage in seemingly endless, 
wasteful and speculative analysis, including 
assessment of all reasonably 
foreseeable, indirect—indirect—economic 
effects of a proposed rule. 
I think we may see agencies purchasing 
crystal balls so they can comply 
with this inane requirement of 
looking into the future. As any first-
year law student would know, it can 
take years of costly and time-consuming 
litigation to figure out exactly 
what is reasonably foreseeable and 
what is indirect. Where is Mr. PAUL’s 
graph? 

While adding analytical requirements 
and opportunities for industry 
to disrupt rulemaking, H.R. 527 provides 
absolutely no assistance to business 
in complying with Federal regulations, 
which is what small business 
really needs. And for those of us who 
should really be worried about the national 
deficit, this bill has a hefty price 
tag. The most conservative estimates, 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8037 

$80 million, and a more realistic estimate 
is $291 million over a 5-year period. 


The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman 
has expired. 

Mr. CONYERS. I yield the gentleman 
an additional 2 minutes. 

Mr. COHEN. Thank you. 

H.R. 527, like H.R. 3010, which we will 
also consider this week, is simply a 
wolf in sheep’s clothing. What proponents 
seem to describe as commonsense 
revisions to current law actually 
would result in a dramatic overhaul of 
the rulemaking process, threatening 
agencies’ ability to ensure basic 
health, safety, and other precautions. 
I oppose this bill and urge my colleagues 
to do so. Also the cumulative 
effect of these and other bills would be 
to be undermine the ability of agencies 
to effectively regulate consumer 
health, work product safety, environment 
protection, financial services 
misconduct, and others. Right now we 
can take these for granted. 

This is a dangerous bill, and I would 
ask our Members to vote against it and 
think about the safety of the public 
and the future. Small businesses are 
people, as Mr. Romney said about corporations, 
and those people also suffer 
from lack of regulation. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Ohio (Mr. CHABOT), a senior member of 
the Judiciary Committee. 

Mr. CHABOT. I thank our distinguished 
chairman for yielding the 
time. 

Mr. Chairman, when I talk to small 
business owners back in my district in 
Cincinnati in southwest Ohio, I continue 
to hear the same thing over and 
over again. Overbearing regulations are 
crushing their ability to grow and create 
jobs, and that’s what we are supposed 
to be about is getting this economy 
moving and getting people back to 
work again; but the regulations are 
just crushing them. 

Over the last year, however, the 
Obama administration has enacted 
more than 3,500 new rules and regulations, 
and they have another 4,000 
pending. So rather than reduce the regulations, 
they are talking about putting 
on even more. 

Mr. Chairman, small businesses in 
this country are struggling. Unemployment 
is at record levels and our economy 
is showing little or no signs of improvement. 


We must pass legislation that reduces 
redtape and repeals burdensome 
regulations. This bill will reform the 
rulemaking system and provide much 
needed regulatory relief to small business. 


If President Obama is serious about 
job creation, then he must sign this 
bill. Small businesses are struggling to 
keep up with the overwhelming costs of 
compliance that his administration has 
put on our Nation’s job creators. 

If Congress wants to give the American 
people a gift this Christmas season, 
let it be regulatory relief and the 
jobs that will result. 

Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 1 minute to a distinguished 
member of our committee, the 
gentlelady from California, JUDY CHU. 

Ms. CHU. I rise in opposition to the 
so-called Regulatory Flexibility Act. 
This bill shows just how out of touch 
the House leadership is, not only with 
the American people, but with America’s 
small businesses. 

A recent poll conducted by the Hartford 
Financial Group asked small businesses 
to name their biggest barrier to 
success. Despite the majority’s claim, 
do you know how many cited government 
rules and regulations as the biggest 
barrier? Just 9 percent. Instead, a 
majority, a vast majority, in fact, 59 
percent of small businesses, said they 
struggle the most with finding qualified 
talent. 

So it’s clear that this bill does nothing 
to knock down barriers and help 
the majority of small businesses with 
their greatest needs. Instead, it just 
slows down the regulation process and 
stops government from protecting the 
consumers from unsafe products, dirty 
air or water that could make them 
sick, a dangerous workplace, or gross 
misconduct in the financial industry. 

Our country’s small businesses don’t 
have time for this nonsense. We should 
be working on a bill that creates jobs 
and actually helps small business. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. POE), a former district 
judge and a senior member of the Judiciary 
Committee. 

Mr. POE of Texas. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. 

Mr. Chairman, when I meet with 
small business owners back in southeast 
Texas, the one thing they always 
tell me is that they are not comfortable 
with expanding their businesses 
or hiring new employees because 
of the Federal regulators. ‘‘We just 
don’t know what the Federal Government 
is going to do next,’’ is what I 
often hear. And considering that the 
code of Federal regulations is currently 
over 150,000 pages long, no wonder they 
are saying that they cannot plan for 
the future. 

Mr. Chairman, do we really need 
more than 150,000 pages of regulations 
to be imposed across the fruited plain? 
Good thing the regulators weren’t 
around to draw up regulations on the 
Ten Commandments. No telling what 
that would look like. 

Anyway, a recent Gallup Poll found 
regulation and red tape is the most important 
problem currently facing business 
owners. That’s right, not the economy 
but red tape. Why are we allowing 
the regulators to administratively pass 
many unnecessary rules that destroy 
this economic system? 

Unnecessary regulations hurt all 
American businesses, but hurt the 
small businesses the most. It’s not easy 
for a mom-and-pop shop to hire a legal 
department to navigate through the 
ever-growing list of Federal regulations 
that may be applicable to their 

small business. In fact, on average, 
small businesses spend 36 percent more 
per employee per year complying with 
Federal regulations than large businesses 
do. 

b 1520 
This legislation will help the problem 
by requiring that Federal agencies just 
analyze the impact of a new regulation 
on small businesses before adopting the 
regulation. Once a mom and pop shop 
goes out of business, there’s often no 
going back. 
Regulators and elitist bureaucrats in 
Washington, D.C., do not always know 
what is best for people who own a small 
business. Many of these regulators 
have never owned a small business or 
even understand capitalism. They have 
never signed the front of a paycheck. 
But yet they make rules. Congress 
needs to ensure that we do not over-
regulate America to death and self-destruct 
our economic system. 
Mr. CONYERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 
Members of the House, it’s important 
for us to realize who else has difficulty 
in supporting a bill that ends up creating 
unsafe products, promotes dirty 
air, and other kinds of harms to our 
citizenry. The American Lung Association 
is opposed to H.R. 527. The Environmental 
Defense Fund is opposed to 
this bill. The National Women’s Law 
Center does not support this bill. Public 
Citizen is opposed to it. The Union 
of Concerned Scientists is opposed to 
it. And, indeed, a total of more than 70 
organizations have all written urging 
us to very carefully consider what we 
are doing here today. 
It’s absolutely critical, and it is very 
important that we understand that 
there is no evidence, credible evidence 
that regulations depress job creation. 
Now, this is great rhetoric, but we’re 
passing laws here today. 
The majority’s own witness before 
the House Judiciary Committee agrees 
with us. Christopher DeMuth, who appeared 
before the House Judiciary 
Committee on behalf of the American 
Enterprise Institute, stated in his prepared 
testimony that the focus on jobs 
can lead to confusion in regulatory debates, 
and that the employment effects 
of regulation, while important, are indeterminate. 
He can’t figure it out, and 
he was a pretty good witness for our 
position that regulations have no discernible 
impact on job creation. 
If anything, regulations may promote 
job growth and put Americans 
back to work. The BlueGreen Alliance 
notes: Studies on the direct impact of 
regulations on job growth have found 
that most regulations result in modest 
job growth or have no effect. 
Economic growth has consistently 
surged forward in concert with these 
health and safety protections. The 
Clean Air Act is a perfect example. The 
economy has grown 204 percent and private 
sector job creation has expanded 
86 percent since it was passed in 1970. 
And so, my colleagues, regulation and 


H8038 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

economic growth can go hand in hand. 
We recently observed that 40 years of 
success with the Clean Air Act has 
demonstrated that strong environmental 
protections and strong economic 
growth go hand in hand. 

What’s in this bill is a provision that 
every regulation change would have to 
come back through the Congress. It 
would be unthinkable that we could 
add this to our schedule, especially if 
there was a health emergency that required 
a rapid passage. 

So I want every Member of this 
House to examine the grossly different 
analyses that are being made here and 
come to your own conclusion. I think if 
you do, you will realize that regulations 
have no discernible impact on job 
creation. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, 
how much time remains on each side? 

The CHAIR. The gentleman from 
Texas has 71/2 minutes remaining. The 
gentleman from Michigan has 31/2 minutes 
remaining. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. MANZULLO), a member of 
the Financial Services Committee. 

Mr. MANZULLO. Mr. Chairman, this 
is one of the most important bills that 
we will pass in Congress. 

I’m just amazed at what I hear from 
the other side—we’re over here endangering 
safety; we’re poisoning water; 
we’re doing everything we can in the 
workplace. That’s not what this is 
about. All this bill says is, when you 
put in a regulation, at least have some 
type of basis so the people impacted by 
it know where to go from there. Have 
some good, sound science. Let’s have 
an economic impact study. 

Let me just give you five instances 
specifically. Talk to the doctors today 
about all of the regulations impacting 
them, and you’ll hear complaints about 
spending more time on paperwork than 
with their patients. 

Talk to the banks. I was talking to a 
small banker, only 19 employees. Two 
little banks in my district, they have 
to hire a full-time compliance officer 
just because of Dodd-Frank, and that 
bank didn’t do one thing wrong to 
bring about this economic collapse. 

And now the farmers. EPA is going to 
regulate cow manure under CERCLA, 
as opposed to the present rules. 

Several years ago, this House passed 
the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. 
One of those was something called the 
employee commute option that said 
that counties around Chicago had to 
have something called an employee 
commute option that was forced carpooling. 
Well, one of those counties 
was McHenry County, which is still a 
rural county. And I had to work with 
HENRY WAXMAN for 2 to 21/2 years to 
come up with a reasonable interpretation 
and corrective language in order 
to make sure that the people of that 
county were not strapped with that incredible 
mandate and at the same time 
we did not compromise the quality of 
the air. 

The Hope Scholarship reporting requirements 
that said that the 7,700 
schools across the country had to report 
who it was that gave them the 
money—turned them into some kind of 
a supercomputer. And I worked with 
the 7,700 schools and with the commissioner 
of the IRS—this was a $100 million 
mandate upon all of these schools 
in the country because nobody took 
the time to say, what impact will this 
regulation have upon the schools of 
this country? 

This before me is one day of regulation, 
just one day in America. Just one 
day in Washington, just one more day 
when the small business people have to 
read through 500 pages of 9-point type 
dealing with air particulates. 

And then I hear today that oh, you 
don’t need any relief, it’s not necessary. 
Regulations are good. And then 
we take a look at the impact that this 
has, the financial impact that it has on 
the small businesses today. 

This is a great bill. It’s long overdue. 
And as a former chairman of the Small 
Business Committee, I say it’s about 
time, and our colleagues on the other 
side should all vote unanimously for 
this bill. 

Mr. CONYERS. I yield myself such 
time as I may consume. 

I’m glad my friend is still on the 
floor because he asked, what do the 
doctors have to say about this? The 
doctors oppose the bill. And I’d like to 
point out, the American Lung Association 
and the Center for Science in the 
Public Interest do not agree with you, 
and they agree with our position on the 
bill. 

b 1530 
Mr. MANZULLO. Will the gentleman 
yield? 
Mr. CONYERS. In just a minute I’ll 
be very pleased to. 
The Environmental Defense Fund, 
the Friends of the Earth, and the Union 
of Concerned Scientists are all in 
agreement with us. And so I want you 
to know that the medical people that 
have spoken about this bill are not in 
support of it. 
I will yield briefly to the gentleman. 
Mr. MANZULLO. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. 
First of all, the doctors that I talk 
to—the experts themselves, not the 
lobbyists in Washington—I talk to 
them on a continuous basis. They’re 
very upset with more regulations. And 
NFIB is behind the bill. 
Mr. CONYERS. Just a moment. 
These are not lobbyists. I don’t know if 
these organizations have any offices 
here. But the Union of Concerned Scientists 
probably doesn’t have any lobbyists. 
I doubt if the American Lung 
Association does. 
Mr. MANZULLO. Will the gentleman 
yield? 
Mr. CONYERS. I would, except that 
your side has far more time than my 
side does. 
I reserve the balance of my time. 
Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, 
we are prepared to close; so I will reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. CONYERS. I yield myself such 
time as I may consume. I too am prepared 
to close on this side. 

Ladies and gentlemen of the House, 
we have two starkly opposing views of 
what this bill does. I have over 70 organizations 
that are from the labor movement, 
from the health movement, from 
the science world, from the Women’s 
Law Center, from the Union of Concerned 
Scientists all telling us that 
this is a very dangerous process that 
we’re involved in, that the results 
wouldn’t be that the authors of this 
amendment intended to harm people or 
that they intended to produce unsafe 
air products or that they were supporting 
making the air unbreathable, 
but that is the result of this bill. 

It’s been stated twice on the other 
side that we are accusing you of bad intent. 
I don’t do that. I want you to be 
very clear. It’s not a matter that your 
intentions are not honorable, but the 
results of a bill like H.R. 527 would create 
unsafe products. It would ultimately 
produce air that is more polluted 
than the air that we’re dealing 
with now. It would delay the promulgation 
of regulations that we need. It is 
exactly going in the wrong way because 
we, as a matter of fact, need to 
have more regulation surrounding 
products, particularly children’s toys. 
We want the air to be much better than 
it is. 

And so I urge my colleagues to examine 
the premises starkly different than 
have been presented here today and to 
join us in turning back and sending 
back to the committee a bill that 
would make our health much more endangered. 


I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself the balance of my time. 

Job creation is the key to economic 
recovery, and small businesses are 
America’s main job creators. But over-
regulation kills jobs and is especially 
burdensome for small businesses. Anyone 
who doesn’t believe that probably 
hasn’t spent much time in the private 
sector. Even President Obama, who has 
not spent much time in the private sector, 
wrote in a Wall Street Journal op-
ed and recognized that overregulation 
‘‘stifles innovation’’ and has ‘‘a 
chilling effect on growth and jobs.’’ 

It has been 15 years since Congress 
last updated the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act of 1980. Experience during that 
time reveals that further reforms are 
necessary. The Regulatory Flexibility 
Improvements Act of 2011 makes carefully 
targeted reforms to the current 
law to ensure that agencies properly 
analyze how a new regulation will affect 
small businesses before adopting 
that regulation. In the current economic 
climate, with millions of Americans 
looking for work, we simply cannot 
afford to overburden small businesses 
with more wasteful or inefficient 
regulations. 

I urge my colleagues to support the 
bill. I look forward to its passage. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8039 

Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield myself such time as I may 
consume. 

I rise today in support of H.R. 527, 
the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011. I was the original 
cosponsor. I want to thank Chairman 
SMITH for the opportunity to work with 
him on this very important piece of 
legislation. 

Opponents will argue that the bill 
stops agencies from issuing regulations. 
However, in reality, H.R. 527 will 
force agencies to consider how their actions 
affect small businesses and other 
small entities. More importantly, if 
the effects are significant, agencies, 
not small entities, will have to develop 
less burdensome and costly alternatives. 


Shouldn’t a government understand 
the consequences of its regulations? Of 
course, it should. And by doing so, the 
government may arrive at a more efficient 
and less costly way to regulate. 
In a nutshell, that is what H.R. 527 
does. 

Some may argue that agencies already 
do this when they draft regulations. 
However, nearly 30 years of experience 
with the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act, or the RFA, shows that agencies 
are not considering the consequences of 
their actions, and it is about time that 
they start doing that. 

Government regulations do have consequences. 
Small businesses must expend 
scarce and vital capital complying 
with these rules. If there’s a better 
way to achieve what an agency 
wants while imposing lower costs on 
small businesses, the sensible approach 
would be to adopt the lower cost methodology. 
This will enable small businesses 
to meet the requirements imposed 
by regulators while freeing up 
scarce resources to expand their businesses 
and hire more workers. 

H.R. 527 ensures the consideration of 
consequences of rulemaking through 
the removal of loopholes that the agencies 
have used to avoid compliance 
with the RFA. In addition, the bill will 
require a closer consideration of the 
impact of rules on small businesses and 
other small entities. Yet nothing in 
H.R. 527 will prevent an agency from 
issuing a rule. It just stops the government 
from issuing a rule without understanding 
its effect on America’s job 
creators—small businesses. 
With that, I urge my colleagues support 
this very carefully crafted measure 
to improve the Federal regulatory 
process. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


Reducing the cost of regulation is a 
very important issue, but it’s not going 
to turn the economy around. In order 
for this to happen, businesses need to 
see more customers coming through 
their doors—and not just during the 
holiday season we are now in. With this 
in mind, it is necessary to create an environment 
where regulations are not 

overburdening small businesses, as 
they do in fact bear the largest burden. 

b 1540 
These entrepreneurs face an annual 
regulatory cost of $10,585 per employee, 
which is 36 percent higher than the regulatory 
cost facing large firms. And 
this brings us to the bill before us. 
Too often on the House floor legislation 
is painted as either being totally 
perfect or completely awful. With this 
bill, neither of these characterizations 
is appropriate. In fact, on many fronts, 

H.R. 527 contains several very positive 
provisions and will make a real difference 
for small businesses. 
Many of the provisions were previously 
advanced by Democrats in the 
Small Business Committee, and for 
this Chairman GRAVES and Chairman 
SMITH and their staff should be commended. 
For instance, the bill makes 
agencies’ regulatory flex analyses more 
detailed so that they cannot simply 
overlook their obligations to small 
businesses. It also gives real teeth to 
periodic regulatory look-backs, which 
require agencies to review outdated 
regulations that remain on the books. 
Agencies will also be required to evaluate 
the entire impact of their regulations, 
something that is long overdue. 

And it cannot go without mention 
that the bill brings the IRS under the 
purview of the RFA. This is a real improvement 
for small firms, which will 
undoubtedly benefit from greater scrutiny 
of complex and burdensome tax 
rules. These are all constructive 
changes that will bring real relief to 
entrepreneurs. 

With that said, there are other items 
in this legislation that leave you 
scratching your head. Adding 50 new 
agencies to the panel process is a recipe 
for disaster. Such a dramatic 
change will require new bureaucratic 
processes, more staff, and more paperwork. 


It must be ironic for my colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle that this 
bill attempts to reduce Federal regulation 
by dramatically expanding the 
role and scope of government. In fact, 

H.R. 527 creates more government as a 
means to limit government. How does 
that make sense? 
It also applies reg flex to land management 
plans, something I have never 
heard small businesses complain about 
in my 18 years on the committee. 
Doing so will enable corporate interests 
to more readily challenge land use 
decisions, which could have adverse 
consequences for the environmental 
stewardship of public lands. The reality 
is that the RFA was just not intended 
to cover this action, and it should not 
do so going forward. 

Finally, it is important to note that 
the Office of Advocacy’s footprint has 
traditionally been minimal, with a 
budget of $9 million and 46 employees. 
According to CBO, its budget will have 
to increase by up to 200 percent per 
year to handle the new responsibilities 
of H.R. 527. It is already taxed in meet


ing its current role, and expanding its 
powers geometrically is well beyond its 
capacity. Members are well aware of 
the fiscal constraints facing the U.S. 
Government. Now is not the time to 
make costly statutory leaps when 
smaller steps might be more appropriate. 


So, in conclusion, there are some 
good and some not-so-good things in 
this bill. I want to acknowledge the effort 
by the bill’s manager, but in the 
end it is not something I could support, 
given the imposition of too many questionable 
policies. However, I want to 
thank Chairman GRAVES for always 
being open to discussions, and I look 
forward to continuing our dialogue on 
this legislation. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield such time as he may consume 
to the gentleman from the 24th 
District of New York (Mr. HANNA). 

Mr. HANNA. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today in support of H.R. 527, the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act. 

The small businesses I meet on a regular 
basis tell me that regulation has 
become an overwhelming problem. 
Small business owners are the backbone 
of the American economy. I know 
this because I’m a small business 
owner. Like so many, my life was built 
by a belief in hard work, free enterprise, 
an entrepreneurial spirit, and a 
love to get out of bed in the morning 
and just do what I love to do, as you 
know yourself, Mr. Chairman. The preponderance 
of regulations is stifling 
that spirit. 

This country can’t do well unless 
small businesses do well. They provide 
the jobs, the growth, and the opportunity 
for the rest of society. Small 
businesses are drowning in regulation. 
Federal agencies should periodically 
review their rules to ensure that regulations 
are not unduly burdensome. As 
with the 1099 reporting provision and 
the 3 percent withholding rule, the law 
of unintended consequences can be 
crippling. Fortunately, this House has 
repealed both. 

We all agree that regulations are absolutely 
necessary to protect the public 
good, but we need to ensure that 
regulations reflect a proper balance 
that does not unreasonably hinder entrepreneurship, 
job creation, and innovation. 


Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. CONYERS), the ranking 
member on the Judiciary Committee. 

Mr. CONYERS. I thank the gentle-
lady from New York. 

My friend on the other side from Missouri, 
who is managing the bill, I was 
happy to hear you say that this measure 
that we are examining does nothing 
to hinder the rulemaking process. 
And I’d like to help you out in that 
area if I may because this expands in 
the bill the use of small business review 
panels to include rules promulgated 
by all agencies, and to include all 
major rules. 


H8040 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

I would say to the gentleman from 
Missouri that right now there are only 
three agencies that are affected. What 
this does, my friend, is extend the review 
process to every agency. Do you 
recognize, sir, that there are over 50 
agencies in the Federal system? And so 
for it to be thought that this isn’t 
going to change much is a grievous 
mistake. And of course I am here to 
help you out, to the extent that I can. 

The other thing that it does—and you 
think that this will not change the 
rulemaking process—is that this measure 
would force agencies to engage in 
speculative analysis, including an assessment 
of all reasonably foreseeable, 
indirect economic effects of a proposed 
rule. 

The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman 
has expired. 

Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield such time as he may consume 
to the chairman of the Subcommittee 
on Investigations, Oversight 
and Regulations, the gentleman 
from the Sixth District of Colorado 
(Mr. COFFMAN). 

(Mr. COFFMAN of Colorado asked 
and was given permission to revise and 
extend his remarks.) 

Mr. COFFMAN of Colorado. The 
Obama administration is currently 
choking the lifeblood out of our Nation’s 
middle class, small businesses, 
and entrepreneurs through excessive 
regulation. According to the Small 
Business Administration, regulations 
cost the American economy $1.75 trillion 
annually. 

b 1550 

The Obama administration has issued 
200 such regulations that are expected 
to cost our economy at least $100 million 
each, and seven of these regulations 
have a pricetag of over $1 billion. 

The President has long touted the job 
creation of his so-called stimulus. But 
every $1 million increase in the Federal 
regulatory budget costs 420 private sector 
jobs for hardworking Americans. 
This is why I am urging passage of 
House Resolution 527, the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act of 2011. 
This legislation will give real teeth to 
the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 
which mandated that Federal agencies 
first assess the economic impact of 
their regulations on small businesses 
before going forward with them. It is 
time to put small businesses first. 

Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, 
may I inquire as to how much time 
each side has. 

The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from 
New York has 3 minutes remaining. 
The gentleman from Missouri has 5 
minutes remaining. 

Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. I yield myself 1 
minute. 

I need to set the record straight regarding 
the previous Member who just 
spoke about how many regulations 
have been issued under the Obama administration. 


Let me remind people here that, according 
to the conservative Heritage 

Foundation, net regulatory burdens increased 
in the years George W. Bush 
assumed the Presidency. Between 2001 
and 2008 the Federal Government imposed 
almost $30 billion in new regulatory 
costs on America. About $11 billion 
was imposed in fiscal year 2007 
alone. 

With regard to the number of pages 
of regulations, the Code of Federal regulations 
totaled 145,000 pages in 2007 
alone. The Obama administration 
issued an Executive order, 13563, and a 
memorandum on small businesses and 
job creation, and the Executive order 
instructs agencies to seek the views of 
affected entities prior to proposed rule-
making. The Executive order also calls 
on agencies to engage in periodic reviews 
of existing regulations. 

The CHAIR. The time of the gentlewoman 
has expired. 

Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. I yield myself 15 
seconds more. 

If we’re going to come here and, instead 
of dealing with the issues that 
are impacting small businesses—and 
that is access to affordable capital so 
that they could create jobs—but rather 
come and criticize the Obama administration 
for issuing regulations, let’s set 
the record straight and talk about the 
regulations that were issued under the 
Republican administration. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, 
I have no further requests for 
time, and I reserve the balance of my 
time. 

Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. How much time do 
I have left, please? 

The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from 
New York has 13/4 minutes remaining. 

Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. I yield 1 minute to 
the gentlelady from Texas (Ms. JACKSON 
LEE). 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, it is clear, when I have the 
ranking member of the Small Business 
Committee who has an enormous history 
of commitment to small businesses, 
and the ranking member of the 
Judiciary Committee, both former 
chairs, opposing this bill, then we obviously 
know that it is problematic. 

What I know of small businesses is 
that they, frankly, want to have an anchor 
to promote and propel their business 
needs. The regulatory scheme and 
the underlying premise of this bill is to 
eliminate any anchor for our small 
businesses. And when you do that, 
you’re clearly undermining their 
growth and opportunity. 

I would add, as well, that I challenge 
as to whether or not this debate today 
creates any opportunity for small business, 
provides them access to credit, 
guarantees any loans, creates any jobs. 
Absolutely not, and it is absurd that 
we would suggest that agencies that 
are trying to promote small businesses 
are stopping small businesses and, 
therefore, we want to implode the regulatory 
scheme. 

The APA provides an opportunity for 
due process through the court system. 
If our colleagues have problems with 

regulations, they can run to the courts. 
You don’t have to implode the process 
to be able to address the problem. 

Let’s help small businesses, let’s discuss 
how to create jobs, and let’s vote 
against this legislation. 

Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself the balance of my time. 

The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from 
New York is recognized for 45 seconds. 

Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ. Since its enactment 
in 1980, the Reg Flex has reduced 
the burden of Federal rules on small 
businesses. It has evolved over time to 
include new tools, expanding its purview 
and making a real difference for 
entrepreneurs across the country. 

With this important role in mind, the 
legislation before us makes some essential 
changes. However, in other 
areas the bill goes too far. At a time of 
mounting deficits and growing taxpayer 
anger at how tone-deaf Congress 
has become, H.R. 527 will dramatically 
expand the Federal bureaucracy at a 
cost of $80 million. 

For these reasons, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote, 
and I yield back the balance of my 
time. 

Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, 
the gentlelady, my colleague 
from the Small Business Committee, 
pointed out that the Bush administration 
added $60 billion in regulatory 
burdens out there, which is not a good 
thing at all. In fact, that scares me in 
and of itself. In 8 years of the Bush administration 
you had $60 billion in 
extra regulations. 

The Obama administration has added 
$40 billion in only 3 years. So at the 
rate that that administration’s on, it’s 
going to far outweigh any administration. 


But my point is, I don’t care what administration 
it is. I don’t care if it’s a 
Republican administration or a Democrat 
administration. I want to make 
darn sure that those agencies comply 
with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 
and I want to make darn sure that 
those agencies take into account how 
much this is going to cost small business 
when they’re implementing some 
of these ridiculous regulations that 
they’re asking small business staff to 
comply with. 

Some of this stuff is outrageous, and 
it needs to be studied, or it needs to be 
taken care of, or it needs to be stopped. 
But these agencies—and again, I don’t 
care what administration it is—they 
need to have to comply with this and 
they need to understand what the consequences 
are. 

With that, I would urge my colleagues 
to support the bill, and I yield 
back the balance of my time. 

Mr. HOLT. Mr. Chair, two of the bills before 
us this week are just two more bills that will 
not create jobs, endanger the public health, 
and waste the time and money of the American 
people. These bills are trying to block 
new regulations under the misguided notion 
that all regulations are bad and prevent economic 
growth. This misguided approach deliberately 
ignores that regulations have improved 
the safety of our children’s toys, made our air 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8041 

and water cleaner, and even saved the lives 
and limbs of our nation’s workers. 

As the AFL–CIO has H.R. 527, the so-called 
‘‘Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act’’ 
would expand the reach and scope of the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act by covering regulations 
that may have an indirect effect on small 
businesses and adding a host of new analytical 
requirements that will make it even more 
difficult for agencies to take action to protect 
workers and the public. Almost any action an 
agency proposes—including something as 
simple as a guidance document designed to 
help a business comply with a rule—could be 
subject to a lengthy regulatory process. While 
the bill purports to be focused on small business, 
it would cover more than 99 percent of 
all employers, including firms in some industries 
with up to 1,500 workers or $35.5 million 
in annual revenues. It is a special interest bailout 
for business. 

H.R. 3010, the so-called ‘‘Regulatory Accountability 
Act’’, is equally odious. This bill 
would effectively eviscerate the Occupational 
Safety and Health Act and Mine Safety and 
Health Act. As critics have noted, the bill 
would require agencies to adopt the least 
costly rule, instead of the most protective rule 
as is now required by the OSH Act and MSH 
Act. It would make protecting workers and the 
public secondary to limiting costs and impacts 
on businesses and corporations. If enacted, 
this legislation would be a license for businesses 
to cut corners and endanger workers 
and the public in the pursuit of ever greater 
profits—all at the expense of the public good. 
I urge my colleagues to join me in rejecting 
both of these atrocious bills so we can get on 
with the business of creating real jobs. 

The CHAIR. All time for general debate 
has expired. 

Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule. 

In lieu of the amendments in the nature 
of a substitute recommended by 
the Committees on the Judiciary and 
Small Business printed in the bill, it 
shall be in order to consider as an 
original bill for the purpose of amendment 
under the 5-minute rule an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute 
consisting of the text of the 
Rules Committee Print dated November 
18, 2011. That amendment in the nature 
of a substitute shall be considered 
as read. 

The text of the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute is as follows: 
H.R. 527 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as 
the ‘‘Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 
2011’’. 
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
of this Act is as follows: 
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. 
Sec. 2. Clarification and expansion of rules cov


ered by the Regulatory Flexibility 

Act. 
Sec. 3. Expansion of report of regulatory agen


da. 
Sec. 4. Requirements providing for more de


tailed analyses. 

Sec. 5. Repeal of waiver and delay authority; 
Additional powers of the Chief 
Counsel for Advocacy. 

Sec. 6. Procedures for gathering comments. 

Sec. 7. Periodic review of rules. 

Sec. 8. Judicial review of compliance with the 
requirements of the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act available after 
publication of the final rule. 

Sec. 9. Jurisdiction of court of appeals over 
rules implementing the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act. 

Sec. 10. Clerical amendments. 

Sec. 11. Agency preparation of guides. 

SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION AND EXPANSION OF 
RULES COVERED BY THE REGULATORY 
FLEXIBILITY ACT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (2) of section 601 
of title 5, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘(2) RULE.—The term ‘rule’ has the meaning 
given such term in section 551(4) of this title, except 
that such term does not include a rule of 
particular (and not general) applicability relating 
to rates, wages, corporate or financial structures 
or reorganizations thereof, prices, facilities, 
appliances, services, or allowances therefor 
or to valuations, costs or accounting, or practices 
relating to such rates, wages, structures, 
prices, appliances, services, or allowances.’’. 

(b) INCLUSION OF RULES WITH INDIRECT EFFECTS.—
Section 601 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(9) ECONOMIC IMPACT.—The term ‘economic 

impact’ means, with respect to a proposed or 

final rule— 
‘‘(A) any direct economic effect on small enti


ties of such rule; and 

‘‘(B) any indirect economic effect on small entities 
which is reasonably foreseeable and results 
from such rule (without regard to whether 
small entities will be directly regulated by the 
rule).’’. 

(c) INCLUSION OF RULES WITH BENEFICIAL EFFECTS.— 
(1) INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
Subsection (c) of section 603 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by striking the 
first sentence and inserting ‘‘Each initial regulatory 
flexibility analysis shall also contain a 
detailed description of alternatives to the proposed 
rule which minimize any adverse significant 
economic impact or maximize any beneficial 
significant economic impact on small entities.’’. 
(2) FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
The first paragraph (6) of section 604(a) 
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ‘‘minimize the significant economic impact’’ 
and inserting ‘‘minimize the adverse significant 
economic impact or maximize the beneficial 
significant economic impact’’. 
(d) INCLUSION OF RULES AFFECTING TRIBAL 
ORGANIZATIONS.—Paragraph (5) of section 601 
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
‘‘and tribal organizations (as defined in 
section 4(l) of the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
450b(l))),’’ after ‘‘special districts,’’. 
(e) INCLUSION OF LAND MANAGEMENT PLANS 
AND FORMAL RULE MAKING.— 
(1) INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
Subsection (a) of section 603 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended in the first sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘or’’ after ‘‘proposed rule,’’; 
and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘or publishes a revision or 
amendment to a land management plan,’’ after 
‘‘United States,’’. 
(2) FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
Subsection (a) of section 604 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended in the first sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘or’’ after ‘‘proposed rule-
making,’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘or adopts a revision or 
amendment to a land management plan,’’ after 
‘‘section 603(a),’’. 
(3) LAND MANAGEMENT PLAN DEFINED.—Section 
601 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following new para


graph: 

‘‘(10) LAND MANAGEMENT PLAN.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘land manage


ment plan’ means— 

‘‘(i) any plan developed by the Secretary of 
Agriculture under section 6 of the Forest and 
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act 
of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604); and 

‘‘(ii) any plan developed by the Secretary of 
Interior under section 202 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1712). 

‘‘(B) REVISION.—The term ‘revision’ means 
any change to a land management plan which— 

‘‘(i) in the case of a plan described in subparagraph 
(A)(i), is made under section 6(f)(5) 
of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
1604(f)(5)); or 

‘‘(ii) in the case of a plan described in subparagraph 
(A)(ii), is made under section 1610.5– 
6 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
successor regulation). 

‘‘(C) AMENDMENT.—The term ‘amendment’ 
means any change to a land management plan 
which— 

‘‘(i) in the case of a plan described in subparagraph 
(A)(i), is made under section 6(f)(4) 
of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
1604(f)(4)) and with respect to which the Secretary 
of Agriculture prepares a statement described 
in section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4332(2)(C)); or 

‘‘(ii) in the case of a plan described in subparagraph 
(A)(ii), is made under section 1610.5– 
5 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
successor regulation) and with respect to which 
the Secretary of the Interior prepares a statement 
described in section 102(2)(C) of the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)).’’. 

(f) INCLUSION OF CERTAIN INTERPRETIVE 
RULES INVOLVING THE INTERNAL REVENUE 
LAWS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section 603 
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘or 
a recordkeeping requirement, and without regard 
to whether such requirement is imposed by 
statute or regulation.’’. 
(2) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—Paragraph 
(7) of section 601 of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(7) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—The term 
‘collection of information’ has the meaning 
given such term in section 3502(3) of title 44.’’. 

(3) RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENT.—Paragraph 
(8) of section 601 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(8) RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENT.—The term 
‘recordkeeping requirement’ has the meaning 
given such term in section 3502(13) of title 44.’’. 

(g) DEFINITION OF SMALL ORGANIZATION.— 
Paragraph (4) of section 601 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(4) SMALL ORGANIZATION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘small organization’ 
means any not-for-profit enterprise which, 
as of the issuance of the notice of proposed rule-
making— 

‘‘(i) in the case of an enterprise which is described 
by a classification code of the North 
American Industrial Classification System, does 
not exceed the size standard established by the 
Administrator of the Small Business Administration 
pursuant to section 3 of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 632) for small business concerns 
described by such classification code; and 

‘‘(ii) in the case of any other enterprise, has 
a net worth that does not exceed $7,000,000 and 
has not more than 500 employees. 

‘‘(B) LOCAL LABOR ORGANIZATIONS.—In the 
case of any local labor organization, subparagraph 
(A) shall be applied without regard to 
any national or international organization of 
which such local labor organization is a part. 


H8042 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

‘‘(C) AGENCY DEFINITIONS.—Subparagraphs 

(A) and (B) shall not apply to the extent that 
an agency, after consultation with the Office of 
Advocacy of the Small Business Administration 
and after opportunity for public comment, establishes 
one or more definitions for such term 
which are appropriate to the activities of the 
agency and publishes such definitions in the 
Federal Register.’’. 
SEC. 3. EXPANSION OF REPORT OF REGULATORY 
AGENDA. 

Section 602 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘, and’’ at 
the end and inserting ‘‘;’’; 
(B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
(4); and 
(C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following: 
‘‘(3) a brief description of the sector of the 
North American Industrial Classification System 
that is primarily affected by any rule which the 
agency expects to propose or promulgate which 
is likely to have a significant economic impact 
on a substantial number of small entities; and’’; 
and 

(2) in subsection (c), to read as follows: 
‘‘(c) Each agency shall prominently display a 
plain language summary of the information contained 
in the regulatory flexibility agenda published 
under subsection (a) on its website within 
3 days of its publication in the Federal Register. 
The Office of Advocacy of the Small Business 
Administration shall compile and prominently 
display a plain language summary of the regulatory 
agendas referenced in subsection (a) for 
each agency on its website within 3 days of their 
publication in the Federal Register.’’. 

SEC. 4. REQUIREMENTS PROVIDING FOR MORE 
DETAILED ANALYSES. 

(a) INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
Subsection (b) of section 603 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(b) Each initial regulatory flexibility analysis 
required under this section shall contain a 
detailed statement— 

‘‘(1) describing the reasons why action by the 
agency is being considered; 

‘‘(2) describing the objectives of, and legal 
basis for, the proposed rule; 

‘‘(3) estimating the number and type of small 
entities to which the proposed rule will apply; 

‘‘(4) describing the projected reporting, record-
keeping, and other compliance requirements of 
the proposed rule, including an estimate of the 
classes of small entities which will be subject to 
the requirement and the type of professional 
skills necessary for preparation of the report 
and record; 

‘‘(5) describing all relevant Federal rules 
which may duplicate, overlap, or conflict with 
the proposed rule, or the reasons why such a description 
could not be provided; 

‘‘(6) estimating the additional cumulative economic 
impact of the proposed rule on small entities 
beyond that already imposed on the class of 
small entities by the agency or why such an estimate 
is not available; and 

‘‘(7) describing any disproportionate economic 
impact on small entities or a specific class of 
small entities.’’. 

(b) FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 604(a) of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘an explanation’’ 
and inserting ‘‘a detailed explanation’’; 
(B) in each of paragraphs (4), (5), and the 
first paragraph (6), by inserting ‘‘detailed’’ before 
‘‘description’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(7) describing any disproportionate economic 
impact on small entities or a specific class of 
small entities.’’. 

(2) INCLUSION OF RESPONSE TO COMMENTS ON 
CERTIFICATION OF PROPOSED RULE.—Paragraph 
(2) of section 604(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘(or certification 
of the proposed rule under section 605(b))’’ after 
‘‘initial regulatory flexibility analysis’’. 
(3) PUBLICATION OF ANALYSIS ON WEBSITE.— 
Subsection (b) of section 604 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(b) The agency shall make copies of the final 
regulatory flexibility analysis available to the 
public, including placement of the entire analysis 
on the agency’s website, and shall publish 
in the Federal Register the final regulatory 
flexibility analysis, or a summary thereof which 
includes the telephone number, mailing address, 
and link to the website where the complete analysis 
may be obtained.’’. 

(c) CROSS-REFERENCES TO OTHER ANALYSES.— 
Subsection (a) of section 605 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(a) A Federal agency shall be treated as satisfying 
any requirement regarding the content 
of an agenda or regulatory flexibility analysis 
under section 602, 603, or 604, if such agency 
provides in such agenda or analysis a cross-reference 
to the specific portion of another agenda 
or analysis which is required by any other law 
and which satisfies such requirement.’’. 

(d) CERTIFICATIONS.—Subsection (b) of section 
605 of title 5, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) by inserting ‘‘detailed’’ before ‘‘statement’’ 
the first place it appears; and 
(2) by inserting ‘‘and legal’’ after ‘‘factual’’. 
(e) QUANTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—Section 
607 of title 5, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘§ 607. Quantification requirements 

‘‘In complying with sections 603 and 604, an 
agency shall provide— 

‘‘(1) a quantifiable or numerical description of 
the effects of the proposed or final rule and alternatives 
to the proposed or final rule; or 

‘‘(2) a more general descriptive statement and 
a detailed statement explaining why quantification 
is not practicable or reliable.’’. 
SEC. 5. REPEAL OF WAIVER AND DELAY AUTHOR


ITY; ADDITIONAL POWERS OF THE 

CHIEF COUNSEL FOR ADVOCACY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 608 is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘§ 608. Additional powers of Chief Counsel for 
Advocacy 

‘‘(a)(1) Not later than 270 days after the date 
of the enactment of the Regulatory Flexibility 
Improvements Act of 2011, the Chief Counsel for 
Advocacy of the Small Business Administration 
shall, after opportunity for notice and comment 
under section 553, issue rules governing agency 
compliance with this chapter. The Chief Counsel 
may modify or amend such rules after notice 
and comment under section 553. This chapter 
(other than this subsection) shall not apply with 
respect to the issuance, modification, and 
amendment of rules under this paragraph. 

‘‘(2) An agency shall not issue rules which 
supplement the rules issued under subsection (a) 
unless such agency has first consulted with the 
Chief Counsel for Advocacy to ensure that such 
supplemental rules comply with this chapter 
and the rules issued under paragraph (1). 

‘‘(b) Notwithstanding any other law, the 
Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business 
Administration may intervene in any agency 
adjudication (unless such agency is authorized 
to impose a fine or penalty under such adjudication), 
and may inform the agency of the 
impact that any decision on the record may 
have on small entities. The Chief Counsel shall 
not initiate an appeal with respect to any adjudication 
in which the Chief Counsel intervenes 
under this subsection. 

‘‘(c) The Chief Counsel for Advocacy may file 
comments in response to any agency notice requesting 
comment, regardless of whether the 
agency is required to file a general notice of proposed 
rulemaking under section 553.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— 
(1) Section 611(a)(1) of such title is amended 
by striking ‘‘608(b),’’. 
(2) Section 611(a)(2) of such title is amended 
by striking ‘‘608(b),’’. 
(3) Section 611(a)(3) of such title is amended— 
(A) by striking subparagraph (B); and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(3)(A) A small entity’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(3) A small entity’’. 

SEC. 6. PROCEDURES FOR GATHERING COMMENTS. 


Section 609 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking subsection (b) and all that 
follows through the end of the section and inserting 
the following: 

‘‘(b)(1) Prior to publication of any proposed 
rule described in subsection (e), an agency making 
such rule shall notify the Chief Counsel for 
Advocacy of the Small Business Administration 
and provide the Chief Counsel with— 

‘‘(A) all materials prepared or utilized by the 
agency in making the proposed rule, including 
the draft of the proposed rule; and 

‘‘(B) information on the potential adverse and 
beneficial economic impacts of the proposed rule 
on small entities and the type of small entities 
that might be affected. 

‘‘(2) An agency shall not be required under 
paragraph (1) to provide the exact language of 
any draft if the rule— 

‘‘(A) relates to the internal revenue laws of 
the United States; or 

‘‘(B) is proposed by an independent regulatory 
agency (as defined in section 3502(5) of 
title 44). 

‘‘(c) Not later than 15 days after the receipt of 
such materials and information under subsection 
(b), the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of 
the Small Business Administration shall— 

‘‘(1) identify small entities or representatives 
of small entities or a combination of both for the 
purpose of obtaining advice, input, and recommendations 
from those persons about the potential 
economic impacts of the proposed rule 
and the compliance of the agency with section 
603; and 

‘‘(2) convene a review panel consisting of an 
employee from the Office of Advocacy of the 
Small Business Administration, an employee 
from the agency making the rule, and in the 
case of an agency other than an independent 
regulatory agency (as defined in section 3502(5) 
of title 44), an employee from the Office of Information 
and Regulatory Affairs of the Office of 
Management and Budget to review the materials 
and information provided to the Chief Counsel 
under subsection (b). 

‘‘(d)(1) Not later than 60 days after the review 
panel described in subsection (c)(2) is convened, 
the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small 
Business Administration shall, after consultation 
with the members of such panel, submit a 
report to the agency and, in the case of an 
agency other than an independent regulatory 
agency (as defined in section 3502(5) of title 44), 
the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs 
of the Office of Management and Budget. 

‘‘(2) Such report shall include an assessment 
of the economic impact of the proposed rule on 
small entities, including an assessment of the 
proposed rule’s impact on the cost that small entities 
pay for energy, and a discussion of any alternatives 
that will minimize adverse significant 
economic impacts or maximize beneficial significant 
economic impacts on small entities. 

‘‘(3) Such report shall become part of the rule-
making record. In the publication of the proposed 
rule, the agency shall explain what actions, 
if any, the agency took in response to 
such report. 

‘‘(e) A proposed rule is described by this subsection 
if the Administrator of the Office of Information 
and Regulatory Affairs of the Office 
of Management and Budget, the head of the 
agency (or the delegatee of the head of the 
agency), or an independent regulatory agency 
determines that the proposed rule is likely to result 
in— 

‘‘(1) an annual effect on the economy of 
$100,000,000 or more; 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8043 

‘‘(2) a major increase in costs or prices for 
consumers, individual industries, Federal, State, 
or local governments, tribal organizations, or geographic 
regions; 

‘‘(3) significant adverse effects on competition, 
employment, investment, productivity, innovation, 
or on the ability of United States-based enterprises 
to compete with foreign-based enterprises 
in domestic and export markets; or 

‘‘(4) a significant economic impact on a substantial 
number of small entities. 

‘‘(f) Upon application by the agency, the 
Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business 
Administration may waive the requirements 
of subsections (b) through (e) if the Chief Counsel 
determines that compliance with the requirements 
of such subsections are impracticable, unnecessary, 
or contrary to the public interest.’’. 
SEC. 7. PERIODIC REVIEW OF RULES. 

Section 610 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows: 

‘‘§ 610. Periodic review of rules 

‘‘(a) Not later than 180 days after the enactment 
of the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011, each agency shall publish in the 
Federal Register and place on its website a plan 
for the periodic review of rules issued by the 
agency which the head of the agency determines 
have a significant economic impact on a substantial 
number of small entities. Such determination 
shall be made without regard to 
whether the agency performed an analysis 
under section 604. The purpose of the review 
shall be to determine whether such rules should 
be continued without change, or should be 
amended or rescinded, consistent with the stated 
objectives of applicable statutes, to minimize 
any adverse significant economic impacts or 
maximize any beneficial significant economic 
impacts on a substantial number of small entities. 
Such plan may be amended by the agency 
at any time by publishing the revision in the 
Federal Register and subsequently placing the 
amended plan on the agency’s website. 

‘‘(b) The plan shall provide for the review of 
all such agency rules existing on the date of the 
enactment of the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011 within 10 years of the 
date of publication of the plan in the Federal 
Register and for review of rules adopted after 
the date of enactment of the Regulatory Flexibility 
Improvements Act of 2011 within 10 years 
after the publication of the final rule in the 
Federal Register. If the head of the agency determines 
that completion of the review of existing 
rules is not feasible by the established date, 
the head of the agency shall so certify in a 
statement published in the Federal Register and 
may extend the review for not longer than 2 
years after publication of notice of extension in 
the Federal Register. Such certification and notice 
shall be sent to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy 
of the Small Business Administration and 
the Congress. 

‘‘(c) The plan shall include a section that details 
how an agency will conduct outreach to 
and meaningfully include small businesses for 
the purposes of carrying out this section. The 
agency shall include in this section a plan for 
how the agency will contact small businesses 
and gather their input on existing agency rules. 

‘‘(d) Each agency shall annually submit a report 
regarding the results of its review pursuant 
to such plan to the Congress, the Chief Counsel 
for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration, 
and, in the case of agencies other than 
independent regulatory agencies (as defined in 
section 3502(5) of title 44) to the Administrator of 
the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs 
of the Office of Management and Budget. 
Such report shall include the identification of 
any rule with respect to which the head of the 
agency made a determination described in paragraph 
(5) or (6) of subsection (e) and a detailed 
explanation of the reasons for such determination. 


‘‘(e) In reviewing a rule pursuant to subsections 
(a) through (d), the agency shall amend 

or rescind the rule to minimize any adverse significant 
economic impact on a substantial number 
of small entities or disproportionate economic 
impact on a specific class of small entities, 
or maximize any beneficial significant economic 
impact of the rule on a substantial number 
of small entities to the greatest extent possible, 
consistent with the stated objectives of applicable 
statutes. In amending or rescinding the 
rule, the agency shall consider the following 
factors: 

‘‘(1) The continued need for the rule. 

‘‘(2) The nature of complaints received by the 
agency from small entities concerning the rule. 

‘‘(3) Comments by the Regulatory Enforcement 
Ombudsman and the Chief Counsel for Advocacy 
of the Small Business Administration. 

‘‘(4) The complexity of the rule. 

‘‘(5) The extent to which the rule overlaps, 
duplicates, or conflicts with other Federal rules 
and, unless the head of the agency determines it 
to be infeasible, State, territorial, and local 
rules. 

‘‘(6) The contribution of the rule to the cumulative 
economic impact of all Federal rules on 
the class of small entities affected by the rule, 
unless the head of the agency determines that 
such calculations cannot be made and reports 
that determination in the annual report required 
under subsection (d). 

‘‘(7) The length of time since the rule has been 
evaluated or the degree to which technology, 
economic conditions, or other factors have 
changed in the area affected by the rule. 

‘‘(f) The agency shall publish in the Federal 
Register and on its website a list of rules to be 
reviewed pursuant to such plan. Such publication 
shall include a brief description of the rule, 
the reason why the agency determined that it 
has a significant economic impact on a substantial 
number of small entities (without regard to 
whether it had prepared a final regulatory flexibility 
analysis for the rule), and request comments 
from the public, the Chief Counsel for Advocacy 
of the Small Business Administration, 
and the Regulatory Enforcement Ombudsman 
concerning the enforcement of the rule.’’. 

SEC. 8. JUDICIAL REVIEW OF COMPLIANCE WITH 
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REGULATORY 
FLEXIBILITY ACT AVAILABLE 
AFTER PUBLICATION OF THE 
FINAL RULE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section 
611(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ‘‘final agency action’’ and inserting 
‘‘such rule’’. 
(b) JURISDICTION.—Paragraph (2) of such section 
is amended by inserting ‘‘(or which would 
have such jurisdiction if publication of the final 
rule constituted final agency action)’’ after 
‘‘provision of law,’’. 
(c) TIME FOR BRINGING ACTION.—Paragraph 
(3) of such section is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘final agency action’’ and inserting 
‘‘publication of the final rule’’; and 
(2) by inserting ‘‘, in the case of a rule for 
which the date of final agency action is the 
same date as the publication of the final rule,’’ 
after ‘‘except that’’. 
(d) INTERVENTION BY CHIEF COUNSEL FOR ADVOCACY.—
Subsection (b) of section 612 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting before 
the first period ‘‘or agency compliance with 
section 601, 603, 604, 605(b), 609, or 610’’. 
SEC. 9. JURISDICTION OF COURT OF APPEALS 

OVER RULES IMPLEMENTING THE 

REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2342 of title 28, 
United States Code, is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the 
end; 
(2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at 
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(8) all final rules under section 608(a) of title 
5.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Paragraph 
(3) of section 2341 of title 28, United States Code, 
is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph: 
‘‘(F) the Office of Advocacy of the Small Business 
Administration, when the final rule is 
under section 608(a) of title 5.’’. 

(c) AUTHORIZATION TO INTERVENE AND COMMENT 
ON AGENCY COMPLIANCE WITH ADMINISTRATIVE 
PROCEDURE.—Subsection (b) of section 
612 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ‘‘chapter 5, and chapter 7,’’ after ‘‘this 
chapter,’’. 
SEC. 10. CLERICAL AMENDMENTS. 

(a) Section 601 of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1)— 
(A) by striking the semicolon at the end and 
inserting a period; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(1) the term’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) AGENCY.—The term’’; 

(2) in paragraph (3)— 
(A) by striking the semicolon at the end and 
inserting a period; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(3) the term’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(3) SMALL BUSINESS.—The term’’; 

(3) in paragraph (5)— 
(A) by striking the semicolon at the end and 
inserting a period; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(5) the term’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(5) SMALL GOVERNMENTAL JURISDICTION.— 
The term’’; and 

(4) in paragraph (6)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a period; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(6) the term’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(6) SMALL ENTITY.—The term’’. 

(b) The heading of section 605 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘§ 605. Incorporations by reference and certifications’’. 


(c) The table of sections for chapter 6 of title 
5, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) by striking the item relating to section 605 
and inserting the following new item: 
‘‘605. Incorporations by reference and certifications.’’; 


(2) by striking the item relating to section 607 
and inserting the following new item: 
‘‘607. Quantification requirements.’’; and 

(3) by striking the item relating to section 608 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘608. Additional powers of Chief Counsel for 
Advocacy.’’. 

(d) Chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended as follows: 
(1) In section 603, by striking subsection (d). 
(2) In section 604(a) by striking the second 
paragraph (6). 
SEC. 11. AGENCY PREPARATION OF GUIDES. 

Section 212(a)(5) the Small Business Regulatory 
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 (5 

U.S.C. 601 note) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(5) AGENCY PREPARATION OF GUIDES.—The 
agency shall, in its sole discretion, taking into 
account the subject matter of the rule and the 
language of relevant statutes, ensure that the 
guide is written using sufficiently plain language 
likely to be understood by affected small 
entities. Agencies may prepare separate guides 
covering groups or classes of similarly affected 
small entities and may cooperate with associations 
of small entities to distribute such guides. 
In developing guides, agencies shall solicit input 
from affected small entities or associations of affected 
small entities. An agency may prepare 
guides and apply this section with respect to a 
rule or a group of related rules.’’. 


H8044 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

The CHAIR. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order except those 
printed in part A of House Report 112– 

296. Each such amendment may be offered 
only in the order printed in the 
report, by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered read, shall 
be debatable for the time specified in 
the report, equally divided and controlled 
by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, 
and shall not be subject to a demand 
for division of the question. 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. CRITZ 

The CHAIR. It is now in order to consider 
amendment No. 1 printed in part 
A of House Report 112–296. 

Mr. CRITZ. Mr. Chairman, I have an 
amendment at the desk. 

The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Page 10, line 26, insert ‘‘, or the cumulative 
impact of any other rule stemming from the 
implementation of the Free Trade Agreements,’’ 
before ‘‘on small entities’’. 

The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 
477, the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. CRITZ) and a Member opposed 
each will control 5 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania. 

Mr. CRITZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself as much time as I may consume. 


Trade is critical to the growth of 
small business. A quarter of a million 

U.S. companies export to foreign markets, 
the large majority of them small 
and medium-sized enterprises that employ 
500 or fewer workers. In fact, according 
to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 
more than 230,000 small and medium 
enterprises now account for nearly 
30 percent of U.S. merchandise exports. 
The number of such companies 
exporting has more than doubled since 
1992 and, according to SBA, 96 percent 
of the world’s customers live outside 
the U.S., representing two-thirds of the 
world’s purchasing power. 
Given this critical role, we need to 
make sure trade agreements assist 
small businesses. Trade agreements 
should help reduce redtape and increase 
transparency, but too often 
small businesses lack the resources and 
foreign business partners available to 
large companies to navigate through 
opaque customs and legal systems to 
reach their customers. 

Numerous fees and other nontariff 
barriers that can be no more than a 
nuisance to large multinationals can 
be deal-breakers for small companies. 
Trade agreements must streamline 
rules, reduce nontariff barriers, and 
provide arbitration procedures so that 
even small U.S. exporters can successfully 
participate in foreign markets. 

b 1600 
Trade agreements must also open up 
opportunities for small U.S. exporters 
to compete for foreign government 
contracts. U.S. companies should be 

given a fair shake at the important 
government procurement market in 
these foreign countries. Such agreements 
can help to lower the threshold 
at which contracts must be put out for 
competitive bid ensuring that even 
small U.S. companies can be part of the 
process. Some of those contracts for 
roads, schools, clinics, distance learning, 
and medical equipment, for example, 
can be ideally suited to smaller 

U.S. companies. 
My amendment makes sure that 
small businesses are not forgotten 
when trade agreements are implemented. 
It requires that agencies’ regulatory 
flexibility analyses assess the 
cumulative impact of any rule stemming 
from the implementation of a 
free trade agreement. Doing so will 
make certain that small firms’ voices 
are part of the process in these important 
deliberations. 

Being part of the process will enable 
small firms to benefit from trade 
agreements and use them as a means to 
access foreign markets and customers. 
I urge Members to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this 
amendment. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
claim time in opposition to the amendment 
even though I do not oppose the 
amendment. 

The CHAIR. Without objection, the 

gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes. 

There was no objection. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
support this amendment. 

The amendment aims to require an 
agency to account for rules implementing 
the free trade agreements 
when the agency considers the cumulative 
impact of a proposed rule. I support 
free trade because I believe it is in 
the best interest of American business, 
workers, and consumers alike. 

The gentleman from Pennsylvania 
and I may differ on this issue, but in 
the context of this amendment, that is 
beside the point. It can’t hurt to make 
sure that agencies consider the impact 
of rules implementing the free trade 
agreements in their regulatory cumulative 
impact calculations. I don’t 
think the analysis will show that free 
trade destroys American small businesses. 
Quite the opposite is true, in 
fact. But that isn’t a reason not to do 
the analysis. We should know how 
these kinds of regulations contribute 
to the cumulative regulatory burden 
on small businesses. 

In conclusion, Mr. Chairman, I do 
support this amendment and hope to 
have the gentleman from Pennsylvania’s 
support for the bill on final passage. 


I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. CRITZ. I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on 
my amendment, and I yield back the 
balance of my time. 

The CHAIR. The question is on the 
amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. CRITZ). 

The amendment was agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MS. JACKSON 
LEE OF TEXAS 

The CHAIR. It is now in order to consider 
amendment No. 2 printed in part 
A of House Report 112–296. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. I have 
an amendment at the desk. 

The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Page 23, add the following after line 24 and 
redesignate succeeding sections (and references 
thereto) accordingly: 

SEC. 9. EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN RULES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 6 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new section: 
‘‘§ 613. Exemption for certain rules 

‘‘Sections 601 through 612, as amended by 
the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011, shall not apply in the case of any 
rule promulgated by the Department of 
Homeland Security. The provisions of this 
chapter, as in effect before the enactment of 
the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011, shall continue to apply, after 
such enactment, to any rule described in the 
preceding sentence.’’. 

(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 6 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding after the 
item relating to section 612 the following 
new item: 
‘‘613. Exemption for certain rules.’’. 

Page 24, line 13, insert after ‘‘5’’ the following: 
‘‘(other than rules to which section 
613 of title 5 applies)’’. 

Page 27, lines 5 and 6, strike ‘‘The agency 
shall’’ and insert the following: 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the agency shall’’. 

Page 27, line 18, strike the quotation 
marks and second period. 

Page 27, add the following after line 18: 

‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN RULES.—In the 
case of any rule promulgated by the Department 
of Homeland Security, this paragraph 
as in effect before the enactment of the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act of 
2011, shall continue to apply, after such enactment, 
to any such rule, in lieu of subparagraph 
(A).’’. 

The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 
477, the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE) and a Member 
opposed each will control 5 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from Texas. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, I yield myself such time as 
I may consume. 

I rise today to call upon the rational 
and reasonable thinking of my colleagues 
on both sides of the aisle and 
really discuss an amendment that 
speaks the obvious. 

The underlying bill puts into process 
a regulatory scheme that delays the 
implementation of regulations. Whether 
you agree or disagree with that approach, 
we all recognize that securing 
the homeland continues to be a top priority 
for this Nation. 

I’m standing alongside some of our 
first responders looking over one of the 
Nation’s major ports. Many who live in 
those areas recognize the vulnerability 
of America through her ports or aviation 
or mass transit or highways or 
bridges or dams. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8045 

Every moment after 9/11 is a new moment 
in this Nation. My amendment 
simply says to waive the provisions of 
this bill, H.R. 527, when it deals with 
homeland security. 

I hold in my hand the National Security 
Threat List that lists the issues 
that our Homeland Security Department 
and intelligence communities 
have to address. The listing is not classified, 
so I will mention the many 
tasks that they have to address: terrorism, 
espionage, proliferation, the 
moving forward on the question of economic 
espionage, targeting the national 
information structure, cybersecurity. 
Why would we want to interfere 
with the movement of regulations to 
protect the homeland under the 
premise of this bill? 

I ask my colleagues to support the 
Jackson Lee amendment that would 
waive the bill’s provisions in light of 
protecting the homeland. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
rise in opposition to the amendment. 

The Acting CHAIR (Mr. BISHOP of 
Utah). The gentleman is recognized for 
5 minutes. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. I am prepared 
to close; so I will reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, I yield myself the balance of 
my time. 

The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman 
is recognized for 3 minutes. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Let me 
again appeal to the bipartisanship of 
my colleagues. This is a very troublesome 
bill, and this bill interferes with 
the normal process, if you will, of dealing 
with the regulatory scheme. Although 
it’s called the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act, I can assure you that 
the purpose of this legislation is, one, 
not to create jobs, and certainly not to 
help us secure the homeland. 

The bill would add new review requirements 
to an already long and 
complicated process allowing special 
interest lobbyists to second-guess the 
work of respected scientists and staff 
through legal challenges, sparking a 
wave of litigation. This is what Homeland 
Security regulations would have 
to go through. 

Since the creation of the Department 
of Homeland Security in 2002 and since 
my membership on the committee that 
was a select committee, we’ve overhauled 
the government in ways we’ve 
never done before. Steps have been 
taken to ensure that the communication 
failures that led to 9/11 are corrected. 


More than 220 million tons of cargo 
moved, for example, through the Port 
of Houston in 2010. That cargo has to be 
inspected. And the port ranked first in 
foreign waterborne tonnage for the 
15th consecutive year. Just imagine a 
regulation dealing with the scanning or 
the security of that tonnage to be 
interfered with by H.R. 527. 

If Coast Guard intelligence had evidence 
of a potential attack on the Port 

of Houston and they wanted the Department 
of Homeland Security to address 
it or they used a regulation or 
there was a regulation in process, then 
it would have to be stopped by this legislation. 


It is important to recognize that 
homeland security is not security by 
appointment. It is not security by ‘‘let 
me address regulations by having them 
vetted by H.R. 527.’’ 

This is a commonsense amendment 
that simply says, as it deals with the 
homeland security or the securing of 
our Nation as we look to be better than 
what occurred in 9/11 where agencies 
were not communicating with each 
other, where the fault of the cybersecurity 
system did not work, and we had 
the heinous tragedy of losing 3,000-plus 
of our souls in New York City. As we 
see the franchising of terrorism where 
there is the shoe bomber and the 
Christmas Day bomber and the Times 
Square bomber, it’s important not to 
have a fettered Homeland Security Department 
in a regulatory process that 
is stopped by overlying legislation. 

This legislation is a job-killer, we already 
know. Let’s not let it be a killer 
of Americans because it gets in the 
way of Homeland Security efforts 
doing the work that is necessary. 

I ask my colleagues to support the 
Jackson Lee amendment that asks 
simply for a waiver of this legislation 
as it addresses the question of securing 
the homeland and the regulatory 
scheme that is needed by intelligence 
agencies, our Border Patrol agencies, 
our TSOs that deal with aviation security, 
our cargo inspectors. As it relates 
to that work, our front line, let us 
waive this legislation. 

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of my 
amendment to H.R. 527, the Regulatory Flexibility 
Improvements Act of 2011. This bill 
would amend the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 
RFA. The bill would expand the number of 
rules covered by the RFA and requires Federal 
agencies to perform additional analysis of 
regulations that affect small businesses. 

As a senior member of the Homeland Security 
and ranking member of the Transportation 
Security Subcommittee, I am very concerned 
about any legislation that would hinder the Department 
of Homeland Security’s ability to respond 
to an emergency, which is why the Department 
of Homeland Security, DHS, should 
be exempt from this legislation. 

This bill delays the promulgation of federal 
regulations, and delays a Federal agency’s 
ability to issue regulations when responding to 
an emergency and grants the Small Business 
Administration’s, SBA, Office of Advocacy additional 
authority to intervene in agency rule-
making, without providing additional funding. 
Further, H.R. 527 repeals an agency’s authority 
to waive regulatory analysis during an 
emergency. 

The bill would add new review requirements 
to an already long and complicated process, 
allowing special interest lobbyists to second-
guess the work of respected scientists and 
staff through legal challenges, sparking a 
wave of litigation that would add more costs 
and delays to the rulemaking process, potentially 
putting the lives, health and safety of millions 
of Americans at risk. 

The Department of Homeland Security simply 
does not have the time to be hindered by 
frivolous and unnecessary litigation, especially 
when the safety and security of the American 
people are at risk. 

According to a study conducted by the Economic 
Policy Institute, public protections and 
regulations ‘‘do not tend to significantly impede 
job creation’’, and furthermore, over the 
course of the last several decades, the benefits 
of Federal regulations have significantly 
outweighed their costs. 

There is no need for this legislation, aside 
from the need of some of my colleagues to 
protect corporate interests. This bill would 
make it more difficult for the government to 
protect its citizens, and in the case of the Department 
of Homeland Security, it endangers 
the lives of our citizens. 

In our post 9/11 climate, homeland security 
continues to be a top priority for our Nation. 
As we continue to face threats from enemies 
foreign and domestic, we must ensure that we 
are doing all we can to protect our country. 
The Department of Homeland Security cannot 
react to the constantly changing threat landscape 
effectively if they are subject to this bill. 

Since the creation of the Department of 
Homeland Security in 2002, we have overhauled 
the government in ways never done 
before. Steps have been taken to ensure that 
the communication failures that led to 9/11 do 
not happen again. The Department of Homeland 
Security has helped push the United 
States forward in how we protect our Nation. 
Continuing to make advances in homeland security 
and intelligence is the best way to combat 
the threats we still face. 

Hindering the ability of DHS to make 
changes to rules and regulations puts the entire 
country at risk. As the Representative for 
the 18th District of Texas, I know about 
vulnerabilities in security firsthand. The Coast 
Guard, under the directive of the Department 
of Homeland Security, is tasked with protecting 
our ports of entry. Of the 350 major 
ports in America, the Port of Houston is one 
of the busiest. 

More than 220 million tons of cargo moved 
through the Port of Houston in 2010, and the 
port ranked first in foreign waterborne tonnage 
for the 15th consecutive year. The port links 
Houston with over 1,000 ports in 203 countries, 
and provides 785,000 jobs throughout 
the state of Texas. Maritime ports are centers 
of trade, commerce, and travel along our Nation’s 
coastline, protected by the Coast Guard, 
under the direction of DHS. 

If Coast Guard intelligence has evidence of 
a potential attack on the port of Houston, I 
want the Department of Homeland Security to 
be able to protect my constituents, by issuing 
the regulations needed without being subject 
to the constraints of this bill. 

The Department of Homeland Security deserves 
an exemption not only because they 
may need to quickly change regulations in response 
to new information or threats, but also 
because they are tasked with emergency preparedness 
and response. 

There are many challenges our communities 
face when we are confronted with a catastrophic 
event or a domestic terrorist attack. It 
is important for people to understand that our 
capacity to deal with hurricanes directly reflects 
our ability to respond to a terrorist attack 
in Texas or New York, an earthquake in California, 
or a nationwide pandemic flu outbreak. 


H8046 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

On any given day the City of Houston and 
cities across the United States face a widespread 
and ever-changing array of threats, 
such as: terrorism, organized crime, natural 
disasters and industrial accidents. 

Cities and towns across the nation face 
these and other threats. Indeed, every day, 
ensuring the security of the homeland requires 
the interaction of multiple Federal departments 
and agencies, as well as operational collaboration 
across Federal, State, local, tribal, and 
territorial governments, nongovernmental organizations, 
and the private sector. We can 
hinder the Department of Homeland Security’s 
ability to protect the safety and security of the 
American people. 

This bill expands the review that agencies 
must conduct before issuing new regulations 
and the review they must conduct of existing 
rules to include an evaluation of the ‘‘indirect’’ 
costs of regulations, and grants the SBA authority 
to intervene in agency rulemaking. The 
measure also expands the ability of small 
businesses and other small entities impacted 
by an agency’s regulations to challenge those 
rules in court. 

Under current law, the process already 
takes as long as eight years to complete. 
Given the nature of its mission, the Department 
of Homeland Security is the last agency 
that needs to be subject to more levels of regulation 
and scrutiny. Some advocates groups 
also have expressed concern that by extending 
the rulemaking process, regulatory uncertainty 
could increase, which may make it more 
cost effective for agencies to seek enforcement 
through the courts, and thereby reduce 
the public’s ability to participate in the process. 

These costs add to the cost of doing business 
with the Department of Homeland Security, 
and eat away at the profits of our businesses, 
particularly our small businesses 
which often are not as equipped to absorb additional 
costs. Moreover, many businesses 
dealing with national security have higher 
costs because of expensive equipment, and 
as such are already working with lower profit 
margins. 

The prolonged or indefinite delay of these 
life saving regulations threaten the security, 
stability, and the delivery of vital services to 
the American people. I cannot speak for my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle, but 
I certainly do not want to slow the promulgation 
of regulations to a drip. 

I have offered this amendment to mitigate 
the uncertainty regarding federal laws and 
rulemaking in the area of national security because 
of the increased urgency when dealing 
with these often sensitive matters. The Department 
of Homeland Security is the newest federal 
agency, and as such already is subject to 
pioneering levels of oversight and scrutiny. 

I urge the Committee to make my amendment 
in order to ensure that life saving regulations 
promulgated by the Department of 
Homeland Security are not unnecessarily delayed 
by this legislation. 

b 1610 
Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself the balance of my time. 
The bill only requires agencies to do 
what common sense and current laws 
dictate they should be doing right now. 
The Department of Homeland Security 
is not exempt from the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act. Like other agencies, 

the Department should analyze how a 
new regulation will affect small businesses 
before issuing the regulation. If 
the Department needs to issue a regulation 
in a true emergency situation, 
such as one involving national security, 
it can already do so under the 
‘‘good cause’’ exception to notice-and-
comment rulemaking in the Administrative 
Procedure Act. This good cause 
exception would allow the agency to 
bypass the analysis required by the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act as well. 

As written, the amendment would exempt 
the Department from H.R. 527 but 
not from the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act, itself. The result of this would be 
two versions of the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act at play in the Federal Government—
one for the Department and 
one for everyone else. 

Small businesses do not need any 
more confusion and uncertainty when 
they are trying to participate in the 
Federal regulatory process. 

For these reasons, I oppose the 
amendment, and I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

The Acting CHAIR. The question is 
on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON 
LEE). 

The question was taken; and the Acting 
Chair announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, I demand a recorded vote. 

The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further proceedings 
on the amendment offered by 
the gentlewoman from Texas will be 
postponed. 

AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. COHEN 

The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order 
to consider amendment No. 3 printed in 
part A of House Report 112–296. 

Mr. COHEN. Mr. Chairman, I have an 
amendment at the desk. 

The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will 
designate the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Page 23, add the following after line 24 and 
redesignate succeeding sections (and references 
thereto) accordingly: 

SEC. 9. EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN RULES. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 6 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new section: 
‘‘§ 613. Exemption for certain rules 

‘‘Sections 601 through 612, as amended by 
the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011, shall not apply in the case of any 
rule that relates to the safety of food, the 
safety of the workplace, air quality, the safety 
of consumer products, or water quality. 
The provisions of this chapter, as in effect 
before the enactment of the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act of 2011, shall 
continue to apply, after such enactment, to 
any rule described in the preceding sentence.’’. 


(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections for chapter 6 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding after the 
item relating to section 612 the following 
new item: 
‘‘613. Exemption for certain rules.’’. 
Page 24, line 13, insert after ‘‘5’’ the following: 
‘‘(other than rules to which section 
613 of title 5 applies)’’. 

Page 27, lines 5 and 6, strike ‘‘The agency 
shall’’ and insert the following: 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph 
(B), the agency shall’’. 

Page 27, line 18, strike the quotation 
marks and second period. 

Page 27, add the following after line 18: 

‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN RULES.—In the 
case of any rule that relates to the safety of 
food, the safety of the workplace, air quality, 
the safety of consumer products, or 
water quality, this paragraph as in effect before 
the enactment of the Regulatory Flexibility 
Improvements Act of 2011, shall continue 
to apply, after such enactment, to any 
such rule, in lieu of subparagraph (A).’’. 

The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
House Resolution 477, the gentleman 
from Tennessee (Mr. COHEN) and a 
Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Tennessee. 

Mr. COHEN. I yield myself such time 
as I may consume. 

My amendment would exempt from 
this particular bill the rules it has 
when it relates to food safety, workplace 
safety, consumer product safety, 
air quality, and water quality—things 
we all hold dear, things that will be 
jeopardized if this bill passes. 

As I noted in my opening remarks, 
this threatens to halt agencies’ ability 
to promulgate rules by adding analytical 
requirements and numerous opportunities 
for industry to challenge agency 
rulemaking. Yet you should be able 
to challenge agency rulemaking, but 
courts shouldn’t be able to summarily 
throw them out based on a lack of 
knowledge that they have of an area in 
which the agencies are really expert, 
but that’s what would happen. 

The societal cost of enacting H.R. 527 
would be to place public health and 
safety at risk. As we enter this holiday 
season, it would be well to remember 
that the reason we take for granted 
that the food we eat and the water we 
drink—and the drinks we drink—at all 
our holiday dinners and receptions 
won’t kill us or sicken us is because of 
effective rulemaking. Likewise, because 
of strong regulations, we can 
take for granted that toys given to our 
children or grandchildren won’t poison 
them; but the consequences of failing 
to regulate can be dire. 

In 2006 24-year-old Jillian Castro became 
gravely ill after eating spinach 
tainted with E. coli bacteria. Her organs 
were rapidly deteriorating; her 
kidneys were failing; her red blood 
cells and platelets were dropping rapidly; 
and she nearly died. 

According to the best available estimates 
by public health and food safety 
experts, millions of illnesses and thousands 
of deaths each year in this country 
can be traced to contaminated 
food. 

The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention estimates that foodborne 
microorganisms have caused 48 million 
illnesses, 128,000 hospitalizations, and 
3,000 deaths. Many of these could be 
avoided with the proper regulations of 
food and drug. That’s why I ask that 
food safety be eliminated from this 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8047 

bill, because it will be expensive to 
treat these people, let alone the fact 
that they will die. The CDC estimates 
that salmonella alone affects a million 
people a year. Just today, the Food and 
Drug Administration issued a recall of 
grape tomatoes because of potential 
salmonella contamination. 

Other recent examples of regulatory 
failure include the Listeria-tainted 
cantaloupes that killed 29 people across 
the country in October. Pedal entrapment 
issues that cause cars to accelerate 
unexpectedly resulted in Toyota’s 
recall of nearly 2 million vehicles. 
There was Mattel’s recall of nearly a 
million toys in 2007 because the toys 
were covered in lead paint. There are 
other examples of this. 

Public health and safety precautions 
have been on the books for a long time 
and were passed with bipartisan support. 
The fact is there were more regulations 
during President Bush’s term 
than there were overall in President 
Obama’s when you calculate the time 
they’ve been in office. Yet there was no 
call to cut back when President Bush 
was in office. It’s only since President 
Obama has been in office. 

The Pure Food and Drug Act was enacted 
in 1906 by Teddy Roosevelt, then 
the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act in 
1938. The Clean Air Act and the Occupational 
Safety and Health Act were 
enacted in 1970 when Richard Nixon 
was President. The Clean Water Act 
was enacted in 1977. They’ve served our 
country well for many years. 

If H.R. 527 is enacted without adopting 
this amendment, we can no longer 
take protections from these harms for 
granted because, in the future, agencies 
will be hamstrung from passing 
regulations to protect the public. 

I would urge us to pass this amendment 
and to protect our workers, our 
consumers, our small businesses, and 
our small business people when they 
eat their breakfasts, their lunches and 
their dinners, when they buy toys for 
their children and their grandchildren, 
when they drive their cars, and when 
they work in their workplaces. 

I yield back the balance of my time 
and ask for a positive vote. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
rise in opposition to the amendment. 

The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, 
even the President and his regulatory 
czar, Professor Cass Sunstein, admit 
that over-regulation hampers job creation. 
The Regulatory Flexibility Act 
of 1980 is based on the fact that regulatory 
compliance is especially costly 
for small businesses, which are America’s 
main job creators. In this economy, 
we have no room for error when it 
comes to over-regulation. 

The bill ensures that all agencies follow 
the Regulatory Flexibility Act. 

H.R. 527 does not ask agencies to do 
anything that they should not be doing 
already right now. 
There is no reason to create the blanket 
exemptions proposed by this 

amendment. There are no such exemptions 
currently in the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act for the categories of 
rules described in the amendment. Further, 
the amendment would create tremendous 
confusion among agencies and 
small businesses regarding which 
version of the law would apply to a future 
rulemaking. We need less confusion 
and uncertainty, not more, in the 
regulatory process. 

If the amendment stems from a concern 
about the ability of agencies to 
make rules in emergency situations, I 
would note once again that agencies 
may avail themselves of the ‘‘good 
cause’’ exception to the notice-and-
comment rulemaking process already 
in the Administrative Procedure Act. If 
an agency justifiably invokes this exemption, 
it will not have to conduct 
the analysis required under the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act. 

For these reasons, I oppose this 
amendment, and I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

The Acting CHAIR. The question is 
on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Tennessee (Mr. COHEN). 

The question was taken; and the Acting 
Chair announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

Mr. COHEN. Mr. Chairman, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further proceedings 
on the amendment offered by 
the gentleman from Tennessee will be 
postponed. 

AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. PETERS 

The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order 
to consider amendment No. 4 printed in 
part A of House Report 112–296. 

Mr. PETERS. Mr. Chairman, I have 
an amendment at the desk. 

The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will 
designate the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Page 27, insert after line 18 the following: 
SEC. 12. EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN RULES. 

Chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code, 
212(a)(5) the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement 
Fairness Act of 1996, section 2341 
of title 28, United States Code, and section 
2342 of such title, as amended by this Act, 
shall not apply in the case of any proposed 
rule, final rule, or guidance that the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget determines 
will result in net job creation. 
Chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code, 
212(a)(5) the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement 
Fairness Act of 1996, section 2341 
of title 28, United States Code, and section 
2342 of such title, as in effect before the enactment 
of this Act shall apply to such proposed 
rules, final rules, or guidance, as appropriate. 


Page 1, in the matter preceding line 6, insert 
after the item relating to section 11 the 
following: 

Sec. 12. Exception for certain rules. 

The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
House Resolution 477, the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS) and a 
Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Michigan. 

Mr. PETERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

There is no question that Congress 
must act immediately to help our Nation’s 
small businesses succeed, create 
jobs and boost our economy. Unfortunately, 
instead of moving commonsense 
legislation to extend the payroll 
tax cuts for middle class families and 
enacting the American Jobs Act to 
help small businesses afford new hires 
and investments, we are today considering 
H.R. 527, the Regulatory Flexibility 
Improvements Act. 

This legislation, while well intentioned, 
is a step in the wrong direction. 
In addition to making it more difficult 
for agencies to take action to protect 
workers and the public, it will also 
slow down agency guidance that could 
help create certainty and spur job creation. 
This bill will create ‘‘paralysis 
by analysis’’ by subjecting any action 
an agency proposes to a lengthy regulatory 
process. Even agency guidance 
issued to small businesses clarifying 
how well they can comply with existing 
rules will be slowed down considerably. 


This is why I’ve put forward an 
amendment to improve this bill and to 
cut through the additional red tape 
that it creates when it matters most, 
which is when new jobs are on the line. 
My amendment simply says that the 
new administrative hurdles that this 
bill creates will not apply to any rule, 
final rule or guidance that the Director 
of OMB determines will result in net 
job creation. 

b 1620 
While my Republican colleagues keep 
repeating the story that new regulations 
are slowing down our economic 
growth, this simply isn’t the case. A 
recent study by the National Federation 
of Independent Businesses of its 
members found that ‘‘poor sales,’’ and 
not regulation, is the biggest problem 
facing businesses today. 
Effective regulations can promote 
job growth and put Americans back to 
work. As someone living in southeast 
Michigan, I have seen firsthand the 
way increased fuel economy standards 
have made American autos more competitive 
while also saving drivers 
money on gas and helping our environment. 
According to the United Auto 
Workers and the National Resources 
Defense Council, these new standards 
have already led to the creation of 
more than 100,000 jobs. 
Whether it is providing small businesses 
with the guidance they need so 
that they can have the certainty while 
making investment and hiring decisions 
or enacting environmental reforms 
to help bring about the next generation 
of green technology, the Federal 
Government cannot waste any 
more time dragging its feet when it 
comes to job creation. 
For years, my friends on the other 
side of the aisle have repeatedly railed 
against government red tape. But let’s 
be clear: If they oppose this amendment, 
they will, in fact, be voting to 


H8048 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

create more red tape and stymie small 
business job creation. 

I urge my colleagues to support this 
commonsense, pro-jobs amendment. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
rise in opposition to the amendment. 

The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. I am prepared 
to close; so I reserve the balance of my 
time. 

The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman 
from Michigan has 2 minutes remaining. 


Mr. PETERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
back the balance of my time. 

The Acting CHAIR. The Chair recognizes 
the gentleman from Texas. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. 

First of all, I would like to point out 
that the National Federation of Independent 
Business actually does support 
this legislation. I also would like for 
the record to show that a recent Gallup 
poll taken on October 24 of this year 
said that small business owners themselves 
cite ‘‘complying with government 
regulations’’ as their most important 
problem. Now, that’s why we are 
here today. 

Mr. Chairman, I oppose this amendment 
because it puts the cart before 
the horse. The reason we require agencies 
to conduct regulatory flexibility 
analysis is so the agencies and the public 
will know how a new regulation will 
affect small businesses before the agency 
issues the regulation. 

The amendment would exempt from 
the Regulatory Flexibility Act any 
rule that would result in net job creation. 
We certainly know that regulations 
can destroy jobs. Even the administration 
acknowledges that. 

Whether regulations can ever truly 
create jobs is another question all together. 
Assuming that a regulation 
could create jobs, an agency will not 
know this without analysis first, which 
is what the bill requires agencies to do. 

There is no good reason to transfer 
this responsibility to conduct this 
analysis from the agency, themselves, 
to the Office of Management and Budget, 
as the amendment proposes. 

For these reasons, I oppose the 
amendment, and I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

The Acting CHAIR. The question is 
on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS). 

The question was taken; and the Acting 
Chair announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

Mr. PETERS. Mr. Chairman, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further proceedings 
on the amendment offered by 
the gentleman from Michigan will be 
postponed. 

AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MS. JACKSON 
LEE OF TEXAS 

The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order 
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in 
part A of House Report 112–296. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, I have an amendment at the 
desk. 

The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will 
designate the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Add, at the end of the bill, the following: 
SEC. 12. GAO REPORT. 

Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General 
shall submit to the Congress a report on the 
cost effectiveness of the amendments made 
by this Act. Such report shall include the 
following: 

(1) A list of all additional costs and resources 
that each agency will have to expend 
to carry out this Act and the amendments 
made by this Act. 
(2) The effect of this Act and the amendments 
made by this Act on the efficiency of 
the rule making process (including the 
amount of time required to make and implement 
a new rule). 
(3) To what extent this Act or the amendments 
made by this Act will impact the 
making and implementation of new rules in 
the event of an emergency. 
(4) The overall effectiveness of this Act or 
the amendments made by this Act (including 
the extent to which agencies are in compliance 
with the Act or the amendments to the 
Act). 
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
House Resolution 477, the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE) and a 
Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman 
from Texas. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, I yield myself such time as 
I may consume. 

I would like to think that our colleagues 
are in their offices communicating 
with their constituents and 
doing much of the work that we do and 
writing probably other great legislative 
initiatives, and they are paying attention 
to this debate and they keep 
hearing the words ‘‘small businesses’’ 
and they want to know why would any 
of us have a disagreement about small 
businesses when we have, I think, a 
consensus that small business are in 
fact the backbone of America; they are 
the job creators of America. 

I recall many of us have initiatives. I 
have an initiative of visiting small 
businesses. Just a couple of weeks ago, 
I donned the clothing of a medical 
practice. I went to a beauty school and 
tried to do a little bit of hair design. I 
went to an energy company. I went on 
to a small export-import company, and 
I stood out as a safety officer for a construction 
company owned by a single 
mother. 

So we all speak the language of small 
businesses. And you would think that 
my good friends on the other side of 
the aisle would have looked more 
closely at how damaging H.R. 527 is because, 
for those who may be listening 
in their offices and others, right now 
you have a three-agency framework of 
reviewing regulations dealing with 
small businesses. 

Now you’re going to include that all 
the agencies have to get into the act in 

stifling small businesses’ activities and 
their growth and opportunity. Remember 
now, right now we have three, and 
then we’re going to open up the lot so 
that every agency now has to go 
through a regulatory process to determine 
its impact on small businesses. It 
expands the use of small business review 
panels to review rules promulgated 
by all agencies to include all 
major rules, and some of these, of 
course, having the positive impact on 
our small businesses. 

What is the significant economic impact? 
Nobody knows. It forces agencies 
to engage in wasteful, speculative analysis. 
It imposes an absurd and wasteful 
requirement on those agencies. 

So I have a simple amendment. Ask 
the question beforehand: What is the 
economic impact of all of this vast new 
inclusion of other agencies to come 
down on our small businesses? It requires 
my amendment, a GAO study, to 
determine the cost of carrying out this 
bill and the effect it will have on Federal 
agency rulemaking. Simple, bipartisan 
amendment, I ask my colleagues 
to join me in supporting it. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
rise in opposition to the amendment. 

The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
am prepared to close; so I reserve the 
balance of my time. 

The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman 
from Texas has 21/2 minutes remaining. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. I thank 
the gentleman. 

Let me just continue looking for bipartisanship. 
I am hoping that I can 
convince my friend from Texas to not 
desire to have a can of worms, a potpourri 
of agencies coming out with the 
hand of oppression on small businesses. 

This is a simple question that I’m 
asking. The GAO, the Government Accountability 
Office, simply would be 
asking the question: What is the significant 
economic impact on a substantial 
number of small entities which 
will greatly slow down the rulemaking 
process and substantially empower 
other competitors to small business to 
throw sand in the gears of rulemaking 
that will help small businesses, women-
owned businesses, minority-owned 
businesses, disabled veterans? 

What is the reason for not agreeing 
to an important study? It forces agencies 
to again engage in wasteful, speculative 
analysis, including an assessment 
of all reasonably foreseeable indirect 
economic effects. 

We can do it ahead of time. Will this 
kill jobs is the question. It expands judicial 
review to include all agency actions 
and not just final agency action. 

Mr. Chairman, can we not find an opportunity 
to come together on this? I 
would much rather have a report to 
tell me how many small businesses will 
shut down waiting for agency review of 
the rules that would be helpful to 
them. 

Have we engaged with the Small 
Business Committee? Has anyone 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8049 

asked the ranking member of that 
committee, even the chairman of that 
committee, who are champions of 
small business? I don’t think I have 
seen the chairperson, but I have seen 
the ranking member, who listens to 
small businesses across the country. If 
there is a regulation that is going to 
help a small business, this bill kills it. 

The small businesses are hanging on 
for dear life. Pass the rule. Pass the 
rule. Now you have put in all these 
agencies, dilly-dallying around trying 
to be able to find a way to stifle the 
growth of the small business. 

Mr. Chairman, common sense tells 
Members that it doesn’t hurt to have 
just this one bipartisan effort to get 
the answer of the economic impact beforehand. 
Down in Texas we say, close 
the barn door before the cow gets out, 
or the cart before the horse, the horse 
before the cart. We’ve got all of that. 
We’ve got confusion. 

I am simply having a simple amendment 
that would allow the GAO to report 
on how we can better serve our 
small businesses and create the jobs 
that are necessary. I ask my colleagues, 
including Mr. SMITH, to support 
this amendment. 

Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of my 
amendment to H.R. 527, the ‘‘Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act of 2011.’’ My 
amendment would require a GAO study to determine 
the cost of carrying out this bill and 
the effect it will have on federal agency rule-
making. In addition, the report must contain information 
on the impact of repealing the ability 
of an agency to waive provisions in the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act when responding to an 
emergency. 

This bill would amend the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act of 1980 in such a manner that it 
would result in significant delays in the agency 
rule-making processes by mandating multi-
agency analyses of both direct and indirect 
costs for rules proposed or finalized by a single 
agency. 

My amendment simply requires that the 
Comptroller General, within 2 years after the 
enactment of the legislation, issue a report to 
Congress on the cost effectiveness of the 
changes implemented by this Act. 

The report would list all additional costs and 
resources that each agency will have to expend 
to carry out this Act and the amendments 
made by the Act. 

It would also show the effect of this Act and 
its amendments on the efficiency of the rule 
making process, including the amount of time 
required to make and implements a new rule. 

This study would report on any impact that 
this Act or its amendments would have on the 
ability to implement new agencies in the event 
of an emergency. Lastly, this study would examine 
the overall compliance of agencies with 
the Regulatory Flexibility Improvement Act 
(RFIA). 

By requiring that multiple agencies conduct 
detailed economic analyses of a rule proposed 
by a single agency, each agency will have to 
expend time and resources to uncover the indirect 
economic effects of the proposed rule. 
This is unduly burdensome on a process that 
is already sufficient in length, as rules currently 
require a 30 day period after publication 
prior to effectiveness. 

There is one overarching problem with H.R. 

527. Although it claims to make improvements, 
one thing it does not do is provide the 
needed clarification that the GAO has repeatedly 
pointed out, and that the agencies have 
asked for. 
In the past, there have been GAO reports 
showing incidents of agency noncompliance 
with the current regulatory flexibility rules for 
rule making. The reports cited that this noncompliance 
is due largely to confusion surrounding 
the meaning of ‘‘significant economic 
impact on a substantial number of small entities.’’ 
Agencies have expressed the need to 
better clarification of this clause to aide them 
in determining when rule making analysis and 
review is necessary. 

Another part of this expanded review and 
analysis called for in H.R. 527 that concerns 
me is the potential it has to impede upon 
emergency rulemaking. Every so often, there 
are instances when an agency has to implement 
a new rule or regulation in response to 
an emergency. Under the current law, there is 
an exception allowing agencies to bypass the 
review process in the event of an emergency. 
The provisions of this bill cloud that exception. 

Furthermore, the rule-making process is 
made more cumbersome and expensive by requiring 
multi-agency review. If the purported 
reason for amending the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act with this bill is to save the American taxpayers 
money by including provisions requiring 
analyses of direct and indirect effects of 
proposed rules, then it should follow that the 
costs of implementing such provisions should 
not outweigh the benefits they provide. 

My amendment will ensure just that by requiring 
the Comptroller General to issue a report 
to Congress that includes (1) the additional 
costs and resources that each agency 
must expend to maintain compliance with this 
Act, (2) an analysis of the effect that this Act 
has on the efficiency of the rule-making process, 
and (3) an analysis of the potential difficulties 
that may arise in an emergency situation 
in which an agency must implement new 
rules. 

If the process by which government agencies 
create rules is changed to require the disclosure 
of all costs associated with a proposed 
rule, then shouldn’t the Act that makes such 
changes have its own costs to the American 
taxpayers disclosed? My amendment will ensure 
that this disclosure is made to the public 
upon this legislation’s enactment. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

b 1630 
Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
yield myself the balance of my time. 
I oppose this amendment because it 
is unnecessary and would result in a biased 
study by the Government Accountability 
Office. 
The study proposed by the amendment 
focuses excessively on costs to 
agencies to comply with the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act, and how the bill 
would affect agencies’ abilities to pass 
new regulations. The study would not 
focus enough on how the bill would 
benefit small businesses and lead to 
better regulations, which is where our 
focus should be. 
It is worthwhile to require agencies 
to finally comply with the law. That is 
especially true if it means that agen


cies will reduce unnecessary regulatory 
burdens and free small businesses to 
create jobs. 

In the future, I certainly would like 
to know whether agencies comply with 
the Regulatory Flexibility Act as 
amended by this bill, or whether they 
remain disobedient. This amendment, 
however, favors the idea that the bill 
places too heavy of a burden on regulators. 


Fundamentally, the purpose of the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act is to reduce 
the regulatory burden on small businesses, 
not on agencies. Job creators, 
not job regulators, are the key to our 
economic recovery. 

Mr. Chairman, for these reasons, I 
oppose the amendment, and I yield 
back the balance of my time. 

The Acting CHAIR. The question is 
on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman 
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON 
LEE). 

The question was taken; and the Acting 
Chair announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. I demand 
a recorded vote. 

The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further proceedings 
on the amendment offered by 
the gentlewoman from Texas will be 
postponed. 

AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. JOHNSON OF 
GEORGIA 

The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order 
to consider amendment No. 6 printed in 
part A of House Report 112–296. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I have an 
amendment at the desk. 

The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will 
designate the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Add at the end of the bill the following: 

SEC. 12. APPLICATION WITH REGARD TO CERTAIN 
STATUTE. 

None of the amendments made by this Act 
shall apply to any rule making to carry out 
the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act (21 
U.S.C. 2201 note). 

The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
House Resolution 477, the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) and a 
Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Georgia. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, 
I rise today in support of my 
amendment to this hazardous and radioactive 
bill called the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act. 

Now, I want this body to consider my 
amendment to the bill for the following 
reason: The FDA Food Safety 
Modernization Act became law in January 
of this year, January 4, 2011. It 
was necessitated by a continuing series 
of incidents, such as the October 2009 
Stephanie Smith incident, which I will 
tell you a little bit about. She’s a children’s 
dance instructor from Minnesota. 
She became partially paralyzed 
from E. coli. According to a New York 
Times article, ‘‘The frozen hamburgers 
that the Smiths ate, which were made 


H8050 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

by the food giant Cargill, were labeled 
‘American Chef’s Selection Angus Beef 
Patties.’ Yet confidential grinding logs 
and other Cargill records show that the 
hamburgers were made from a mix of 
slaughterhouse trimmings and a mash-
like product derived from scraps that 
were ground together in a plant in Wisconsin. 
The ingredients came from 
slaughterhouses in Nebraska, Texas, 
and Uruguay, and from a South Dakota 
company that processes fatty trimmings 
and treats them with ammonia 
to kill bacteria.’’ Stephanie has sued 
Cargill, and I know that many of my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
would want to limit her ability to recover 
for this injury through misguided 
so-called tort reform. 

But getting back to this matter, this 
amendment is simple. It would ensure 
that Americans have access to safe and 
untainted food. It would create an exception 
for any rulemaking that seeks 
to carry out the FDA Food Safety Modernization 
Act. 

Every year one in six Americans gets 
sick from foodborne diseases. The FDA 
Food Safety Modernization Act enables 
the FDA to better protect public 
health by strengthening the food safety 
system. 

This bill would make it virtually impossible 
for Federal agencies to protect 
public health and safety. Nobody likes 
to be tied up in redtape, but this bill 
would bring regulations to a halt and 
make it virtually impossible to enact 
new regulations. Currently, rule-
making agencies must make an analysis 
for every new rule that would have 
significant economic impact on a substantial 
number of small entities, such 
as small businesses. 

However, agencies have the authority 
to waive or delay this analysis in emergency 
situations. Now, this bill, Mr. 
Chairman, would require agencies to 
determine the indirect costs a rule has 
on a business, and repeal the authority 
of an agency to waive or delay this 
analysis in response to an emergency 
that makes timely compliance impractical 
or imprudent. 

This summer there was a listeria outbreak 
linked to cantaloupes that 
sickened 139 people and killed 29. Just 
today, The Washington Post reports 
that Consumer Reports released an 
alarming study that found high levels 
of arsenic in samples of apple juice. 
Consumer Reports is now calling on 
the FDA to set standards for arsenic 
levels for apple and grape juices. 

The Consumer Reports Group is now 
suggesting that parents restrict juice 
consumption to children up to 6 years 
old to no more than 6 ounces per day. 
For older children, it recommends no 
more than 8 to 12 ounces a day. 

Now is not the time to hamper agencies, 
such as the FDA, that are charged 
with keeping the American public safe. 
If there is a legitimate concern that 
our food supply may be tainted, the 
FDA needs the authority to act quickly 
and without delay. It’s essential 
that the FDA have the ability to con


duct inspections as well as prevention 
programs without having to go through 
speculative paralysis of analysis of a 
proposed rule, nor should the FDA be 
forced to justify existing rules. 

Mr. Chairman, I urge support for my 
amendment, and I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I 
rise in opposition to the amendment. 

The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. I oppose this 
amendment because it carves out an 
exception to the bill for regulations 
under the Food and Drug Administration. 


If agencies were doing the depth of 
pre-regulatory analysis they are supposed 
to be doing under the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act, then we wouldn’t be 
here today. 

Small businesses create jobs, and 
jobs are the key to economic recovery. 
To help small businesses—like minority-
owned restaurants, for example— 
create jobs, we need to reduce, not increase, 
the regulatory burden on them. 

The FDA is not currently exempt 
from the Regulatory Flexibility Act, so 
it makes no sense to exempt the FDA 
from the bill, either. 

This amendment also would create 
confusion within the FDA by exempting 
only its responsibilities under the 
Food Safety Modernization Act from 
this bill. There should not be two 
versions of the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act in play at the FDA. 

For these reasons, I oppose the 
amendment, and I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

The Acting CHAIR. The question is 
on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON). 

The question was taken; and the Acting 
Chair announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I demand a 
recorded vote. 

The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further proceedings 
on the amendment offered by 
the gentleman from Georgia will be 
postponed. 

b 1640 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR 

The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to 
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will 
now resume on those amendments 
printed in part A of House Report 112– 
296 on which further proceedings were 
postponed, in the following order: 

Amendment No. 2 by Ms. JACKSON 
LEE of Texas. 

Amendment No. 3 by Mr. COHEN of 
Tennessee. 

Amendment No. 4 by Mr. PETERS of 
Michigan. 

Amendment No. 5 by Ms. JACKSON 
LEE of Texas. 

Amendment No. 6 by Mr. JOHNSON of 
Georgia. 

The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes 
the minimum time for any electronic 
vote after the first vote in this series. 

AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MS. JACKSON 
LEE OF TEXAS 

The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished 
business is the demand for a recorded 
vote on the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON 
LEE) on which further proceedings were 
postponed and on which the noes prevailed 
by voice vote. 

The Clerk will redesignate the 
amendment. 

The Clerk redesignated the amendment. 


RECORDED VOTE 

The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote 
has been demanded. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 173, noes 244, 

not voting 16, as follows: 

Ackerman 
Altmire 
Andrews 
Baca 
Baldwin 
Bass (CA) 
Becerra 
Berkley 
Berman 
Bishop (NY) 
Blumenauer 
Boswell 
Brady (PA) 
Braley (IA) 
Brown (FL) 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Cardoza 
Carnahan 
Carney 
Carson (IN) 
Castor (FL) 
Chandler 
Cicilline 
Clarke (MI) 
Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly (VA) 
Conyers 
Costello 
Courtney 
Critz 
Crowley 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis (IL) 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
DeLauro 
Dicks 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Donnelly (IN) 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Farr 
Fattah 
Fudge 
Garamendi 
Gibson 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 

Adams 
Aderholt 
Akin 
Alexander 
Amash 
Amodei 
Austria 
Bachus 
Barletta 

[Roll No. 874] 
AYES—173 

Hanabusa 
Hastings (FL) 
Heinrich 
Higgins 
Himes 
Hinchey 
Hinojosa 
Hirono 
Hochul 
Holden 
Holt 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Inslee 
Israel 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson Lee 

(TX) 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kildee 
Kind 
Kissell 
Kucinich 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 
Lewis (GA) 
Lipinski 
Loebsack 
Lofgren, Zoe 
Lowey 
Luja´n 
Lynch 
Maloney 
Markey 
Matsui 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McIntyre 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Michaud 
Miller (NC) 
Miller, George 
Moore 
Moran 
Murphy (CT) 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Olver 
Pallone 

NOES—244 

Barrow 
Barton (TX) 
Bass (NH) 
Benishek 
Berg 
Biggert 
Bilbray 
Bilirakis 
Bishop (GA) 

Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters 
Pingree (ME) 
Polis 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Reyes 
Richardson 
Richmond 
Rothman (NJ) 
Roybal-Allard 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Sa´nchez, Linda 

T. 
Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schwartz 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, David 
Serrano 
Sewell 
Sherman 
Shuler 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Stark 
Sutton 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Tierney 
Tonko 
Towns 
Tsongas 
Van Hollen 
Vela´zquez 
Visclosky 
Walz (MN) 
Wasserman 

Schultz 
Waters 
Watt 
Waxman 
Welch 
Wilson (FL) 
Woolsey 
Yarmuth 

Bishop (UT) 
Black 
Blackburn 
Bonner 
Bono Mack 
Boren 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Brooks 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8051 

Broun (GA) Hayworth Petri Barrow Graves (GA) Palazzo

Mr. FILNER. Mr. Chair, on rollcall 874, I was

Buchanan Heck Pitts Barton (TX) Graves (MO) Paulsen

away from the Capitol due to prior commit-

Bucshon Hensarling Platts Bass (NH) Griffin (AR) Pearce 
Buerkle Herger Poe (TX) ments to my constituents. Had I been present, Benishek Griffith (VA) Pence 
Burgess Herrera Beutler Pompeo I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’ Berg Grimm Peterson 
Burton (IN) Huelskamp Posey Biggert Guinta Petri

AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. COHEN

Calvert Huizenga (MI) Price (GA) Bilbray Guthrie Pitts 
Camp Hultgren Quayle The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished Bilirakis Hall Platts 
Campbell Hunter Reed Bishop (GA) Hanna

business is the demand for a recorded Poe (TX)

Canseco Hurt Rehberg Bishop (UT) Harper 

Pompeo

vote on the amendment offered by the

Cantor Issa Reichert Black Harris 

Posey

Capito Jenkins Renacci gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. COHEN) Blackburn Hastings (WA) 

Price (GA)
Carter Johnson (IL) Ribble on which further proceedings were Bonner Hayworth Quayle

Cassidy Johnson (OH) Rigell Bono Mack Heck

postponed and on which the noes pre-Reed 

Chabot Johnson, Sam Rivera Boren Hensarling 

Rehberg

Chaffetz Jones Roby vailed by voice vote. Boustany Herger 

Reichert

Coble Jordan Roe (TN) The Clerk will redesignate the Brady (TX) Herrera Beutler 

Renacci

Coffman (CO) Kelly Rogers (AL) Brooks Huelskamp

amendment. Ribble

Cole King (IA) Rogers (KY) Broun (GA) Huizenga (MI) 

Rigell

Conaway King (NY) Rogers (MI) The Clerk redesignated the amend-Buchanan Hultgren 

Rivera

Cooper Kingston Rohrabacher ment. Bucshon Hunter 

Roby

Costa Kinzinger (IL) Rokita Buerkle Hurt

RECORDED VOTE Roe (TN)

Cravaack Kline Rooney Burgess Issa 

Rogers (AL)

Crawford Labrador Ros-Lehtinen The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote Burton (IN) Jenkins 

Rogers (KY)

Crenshaw Lamborn Roskam Calvert Johnson (IL)

has been demanded. 

Rogers (MI)
A recorded vote was ordered. Rohrabacher 

Cuellar Lance Ross (AR) Camp Johnson (OH) 

Culberson Landry Ross (FL) Campbell Johnson, Sam 
Davis (KY) Lankford Royce The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-Canseco Jones Rokita 
Rooney

Denham Latham Runyan Cantor Jordan 
Dent LaTourette Ryan (WI) Capito Kelly Ros-Lehtinen

minute vote. 

The vote was taken by electronic de-

DesJarlais Latta Scalise Cardoza King (IA) Roskam 
Diaz-Balart Lewis (CA) Schilling vice, and there were—ayes 171, noes 248, Carter King (NY) Ross (AR) 
Dold LoBiondo Schock not voting 14, as follows: Cassidy Kingston Ross (FL) 
Dreier Long Schrader Chabot Kinzinger (IL) Royce

[Roll No. 875]

Duffy Lucas Schweikert Chaffetz Kissell Runyan 
Duncan (SC) Luetkemeyer Scott (SC) AYES—171 Coble Kline Ryan (WI) 
Duncan (TN) Lummis Scott, Austin Coffman (CO) Labrador Scalise

Ackerman Gutierrez Pallone

Ellmers Lungren, Daniel Sensenbrenner Cole Lamborn Schilling

Altmire Hahn Pascrell

Emerson E. Sessions Conaway Lance Schock

Andrews Hanabusa Pastor (AZ)

Farenthold Mack Shimkus Cooper Landry Schrader

Baca Hastings (FL) Payne

Fincher Manzullo Shuster Costa Lankford Schweikert

Baldwin Heinrich Perlmutter

Fitzpatrick Marchant Simpson Cravaack Latham Scott (SC)

Bass (CA) Higgins Peters

Flake Marino Smith (NE) Crawford LaTourette Scott, Austin

Becerra Himes Pingree (ME)

Fleischmann Matheson Smith (NJ) Crenshaw Latta 

Sensenbrenner

Berkley Hinchey Polis

Fleming McCarthy (CA) Smith (TX) Cuellar Lewis (CA) 

Sessions 
Forbes McCaul Southerland Culberson LoBiondo

Berman Hinojosa Price (NC) 

Shimkus 
Fortenberry McClintock Stearns Davis (KY) Long

Bishop (NY) Hirono Quigley 

Shuster

Blumenauer Hochul Rahall

Foxx McCotter Stivers Denham Lucas 

Simpson

Boswell Holden Rangel

Franks (AZ) McHenry Stutzman Dent Luetkemeyer

Brady (PA) Holt Reyes Smith (NE)

Frelinghuysen McKeon Sullivan DesJarlais Lummis

Braley (IA) Honda Richardson Smith (NJ)

Gallegly McKinley Terry Diaz-Balart Lungren, Daniel

Brown (FL) Hoyer Richmond Smith (TX)

Gardner McMorris Thompson (PA) Dold E.

Butterfield Inslee Rothman (NJ) Southerland

Garrett Rodgers Thornberry Dreier Mack

Capps Israel Roybal-Allard Stearns

Gerlach Meehan Tiberi Duffy Manzullo

Capuano Jackson (IL) Ruppersberger Stivers

Gibbs Mica Tipton Duncan (SC) Marchant

Carnahan Jackson Lee Rush Stutzman

Gingrey (GA) Miller (FL) Turner (NY) Duncan (TN) Marino

Carney (TX) Ryan (OH) Sullivan

Gohmert Miller (MI) Turner (OH) Ellmers Matheson

Carson (IN) Johnson (GA) Sa´nchez, Linda Terry

Goodlatte Miller, Gary Upton Emerson McCarthy (CA)

Castor (FL) Johnson, E. B. T. Thompson (PA)

Gosar Mulvaney Walberg Farenthold McCaul

Chandler Kaptur Sanchez, Loretta Thornberry

Gowdy Murphy (PA) Walden Fincher McClintock

Chu Keating Sarbanes Tiberi

Granger Myrick Walsh (IL) Fitzpatrick McCotter

Cicilline Kildee Schakowsky Tipton

Graves (GA) Neugebauer West Flake McHenry

Clarke (MI) Kind Schiff Turner (NY)

Graves (MO) Noem Westmoreland Fleischmann McKeon

Clarke (NY) Kucinich Schwartz 

Turner (OH)
Clay Langevin Scott (VA)

Griffin (AR) Nugent Whitfield Fleming McKinley 

UptonCleaver Larsen (WA) Scott, David

Griffith (VA) Nunes Wilson (SC) Forbes McMorris 

WalbergClyburn Larson (CT) Serrano

Grimm Nunnelee Wittman Fortenberry Rodgers 

Walden 
Cohen Lee (CA) Sewell

Guinta Olson Wolf Foxx Meehan 

Guthrie Owens Womack Franks (AZ) Mica Walsh (IL)

Connolly (VA) Levin Sherman

Hall Palazzo Woodall Frelinghuysen Miller (FL) Webster 

Conyers Lewis (GA) Shuler

Hanna Paulsen Yoder Gallegly Miller (MI) West 

Costello Lipinski Sires

Harper Pearce Young (AK) Gardner Miller, Gary Westmoreland 

Courtney Loebsack Slaughter

Harris Pence Young (FL) Garrett Mulvaney Whitfield 

Critz Lofgren, Zoe Smith (WA)

Hastings (WA) Peterson Young (IN) Gerlach Murphy (PA) Wilson (SC)

Crowley Lowey Speier 

Gibbs Myrick Wittman 

NOT VOTING—16 Cummings Luja´n Stark 

Gibson Neugebauer Wolf 

Davis (CA) Lynch Sutton

Bachmann Filner Hartzler Gingrey (GA) Noem Womack

Davis (IL) Maloney Thompson (CA)

Bartlett Flores Paul Gohmert Nugent Woodall

DeFazio Matsui Thompson (MS)

Chu Frank (MA) Schmidt Goodlatte Nunes Yoder

DeGette McCarthy (NY) TierneyWebster

Cleaver Giffords Gosar Nunnelee Young (AK)

DeLauro McCollum Tonko

Deutch Gonzalez Gowdy Olson Young (FL)

Dicks McDermott Towns

Doyle Grijalva Granger Owens Young (IN)

Dingell McGovern Tsongas 
Doggett McIntyre Van Hollen NOT VOTING—14

b 1707 

Edwards McNerney Vela´zquez 

Bachmann Eshoo Markey

Messrs. CANSECO, MCCLINTOCK, Ellison Meeks Visclosky 

Bartlett Filner

Engel Michaud Walz (MN)

BILBRAY, GERLACH, and CUELLAR Paul 

Deutch Flores Pelosi

Farr Miller (NC) Wasserman

changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ Donnelly (IN) Giffords Schmidt

Fattah Miller, George Schultz

Messrs. CROWLEY and MCDERMOTT Doyle Hartzler

Frank (MA) Moore Waters 
changed their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’ Fudge Moran Watt ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR 
So the amendment was rejected. 

Garamendi Murphy (CT) Waxman 

Gonzalez Nadler Welch The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).

The result of the vote was announced 

Green, Al Napolitano Wilson (FL) There is 1 minute remaining.
as above recorded. Green, Gene Neal Woolsey 
Stated for: Grijalva Olver Yarmuth 
b 1712

Ms. CHU. Mr. Chair, on rollcall vote 874, on 

NOES—248 

the Jackson Lee Amendment to H.R. 527, I Mr. BISHOP of Georgia changed his

Adams Alexander Austria 

was unavoidably detained. Had I been vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’

Aderholt Amash Bachus 
present, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’ Akin Amodei Barletta So the amendment was rejected. 


H8052 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

Watt Welch Woolsey 
Waxman Wilson (FL) Yarmuth 

The result of the vote was announced The result of the vote was announced 

as above recorded. as above recorded. 
Stated for: Stated for:

NOES—243 

Mr. FILNER. Mr. Chair, on rollcall 875, I was Adams Goodlatte Olson Mr. FILNER. Mr. Chair, on rollcall 876, I was

Aderholt Gosar Palazzo

away from the Capitol due to prior commit-away from the Capitol due to prior commit-

Alexander Gowdy Paulsenments to my constituents. Had I been present, Amash Granger Pearce ments to my constituents. Had I been present, 

I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’ Amodei Graves (GA) Pence I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’

Austria Graves (MO) Peterson

AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. PETERS 

Bachus Griffin (AR) Petri AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MS. JACKSON 

The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished Barletta Griffith (VA) Pitts LEE OF TEXAS 
Barrow Grimm Platts

business is the demand for a recorded The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished

Barton (TX) Guinta Poe (TX)

vote on the amendment offered by the business is the demand for a recorded

Bass (NH) Guthrie Pompeogentleman from Michigan (Mr. PETERS) Benishek Hall Posey vote on the amendment offered by the 
Berg Hanna

on which further proceedings were Price (GA) gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON 

Biggert Harper Quayle

postponed and on which the noes pre-
Reed LEE) on which further proceedings were

Bilbray Harris 
vailed by voice vote. Bilirakis Hastings (WA) Rehberg postponed and on which the noes pre-

The Clerk will redesignate the Bishop (GA) Hayworth Reichert vailed by voice vote.

Bishop (UT) Heck 

Renacci

amendment. The Clerk will redesignate the

Black Hensarling 

Ribble

The Clerk redesignated the amend-Blackburn Herger amendment.

Rigell

ment. Bonner Herrera Beutler 

Rivera The Clerk redesignated the amend-

Bono Mack Huelskamp 

Roby

RECORDED VOTE ment.

Boren Huizenga (MI) 

Roe (TN)
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote Boustany Hultgren Rogers (AL) RECORDED VOTE 
Brady (TX) Hunter

has been demanded. Rogers (KY) 

The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote

Brooks Hurt 

Rogers (MI)

A recorded vote was ordered. 

Broun (GA) Issa has been demanded.

Rohrabacher

The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-Buchanan Jenkins 

Rokita A recorded vote was ordered.

Bucshon Johnson (IL)

minute vote. Rooney

Buerkle Johnson (OH) The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-

Ros-Lehtinen

The vote was taken by electronic de-

Burgess Johnson, Sam minute vote.

Roskam

vice, and there were—ayes 179, noes 243, Burton (IN) Jones 

Ross (AR) The vote was taken by electronic de-

Calvert Jordan 
Camp Kelly vice, and there were—ayes 172, noes 250,
[Roll No. 876] 

not voting 11, as follows: Ross (FL) 

Royce

Campbell King (IA) not voting 11, as follows:

Runyan

Canseco King (NY) 
Cantor Kingston 

AYES—179 

Ryan (WI) [Roll No. 877] 
Ackerman Gibson Moran Scalise

Capito Kinzinger (IL) 

AYES—172

Altmire Gonzalez Murphy (CT) Schilling

Carter Kline 

Andrews Green, Al Nadler Schock Ackerman Green, Gene Neal

Cassidy Labrador 

Baca Green, Gene Napolitano Schrader Andrews Gutierrez Olver

Chabot Lamborn 

Baldwin Grijalva Neal Schweikert Baca Hahn Owens

Chaffetz Lance 

Bass (CA) Gutierrez Scott (SC) Baldwin Hanabusa Pallone

Olver Coble Landry

Becerra Hahn Scott, Austin Bass (CA) Hanna

Owens Coffman (CO) Lankford Pascrell 
Pallone Cole Latham Pastor (AZ)

Berkley Hanabusa Sensenbrenner Becerra Hastings (FL) 
Berman Hastings (FL) Sessions Berkley Heinrich

Pascrell Conaway LaTourette Payne

Bishop (NY) Heinrich Shimkus Berman Higgins

Pastor (AZ) Cooper Latta Pelosi 

Blumenauer Higgins Shuler Bishop (NY) Himes

Payne Cravaack Lewis (CA) Perlmutter 

Boswell Himes Shuster Blumenauer Hinchey

Perlmutter Crawford LoBiondo Peters

Brady (PA) Hinchey Simpson Brady (PA) Hinojosa

Peters Crenshaw Long Pingree (ME)

Braley (IA) Hinojosa Smith (NE) Braley (IA) Hirono

Pingree (ME) Cuellar Lucas Polis

Brown (FL) Hirono Smith (NJ) Brown (FL) Hochul

Polis Culberson Luetkemeyer Price (NC)

Butterfield Hochul Smith (TX) Butterfield Holden

Price (NC) Davis (KY) Lummis Quigley

Capps Holden Southerland Capps Holt

Quigley Denham Lungren, Daniel Rahall

Capuano Holt Stearns Capuano Honda

Rahall DesJarlais E. Rangel

Cardoza Honda Stivers Carnahan Hoyer

Rangel Diaz-Balart Mack 

Reyes

Carnahan Hoyer Stutzman Carney Inslee

Reyes Dold Manzullo 

Ribble 
Richardson

Carney Inslee Sullivan Carson (IN) Israel

Dreier Marchant 

Carson (IN) Israel Terry Castor (FL) Jackson (IL) Richardson 

Richmond Duffy Marino 

Castor (FL) Jackson (IL) Chu Jackson Lee Richmond 

Rothman (NJ) Duncan (SC) Matheson Thompson (PA) 

Chandler Jackson Lee Thornberry Cicilline (TX) Rothman (NJ)

Duncan (TN) McCarthy (CA)

Roybal-Allard

Chu (TX) Clarke (MI) Johnson (GA) Roybal-Allard

Ellmers McCaul Tiberi

Ruppersberger

Cicilline Johnson (GA) Clarke (NY) Johnson, E. B. Ruppersberger

Emerson McClintock Tipton

Rush

Clarke (MI) Johnson, E. B. Clay Kaptur Rush

Farenthold McCotter Turner (NY)

Ryan (OH)

Clarke (NY) Kaptur Cleaver Keating Ryan (OH)

Fincher McHenry Turner (OH)

Sa´nchez, Linda

Clay Keating Upton Clyburn Kildee Sa´nchez, Linda

Fitzpatrick McKeon

T.

Cleaver Kildee Cohen Kucinich T.

Flake McKinley Walberg

Sanchez, Loretta

Clyburn Kind Connolly (VA) Langevin Sanchez, Loretta

Fleischmann McMorris Walden

Sarbanes

Cohen Kissell Costello Larsen (WA)

Fleming Rodgers Walsh (IL) Sarbanes

Schakowsky

Connolly (VA) Kucinich Courtney Larson (CT)

Flores Meehan Webster Schakowsky

Schiff

Conyers Langevin Critz Lee (CA)

Forbes Mica West Schiff

Schwartz

Costa Larsen (WA) Crowley Levin

Fortenberry Miller (FL) Westmoreland Schwartz

Scott (VA)

Costello Larson (CT) Cuellar Lewis (GA)

Foxx Miller (MI) Whitfield Scott (VA)

Scott, David

Courtney Lee (CA) Cummings Lipinski

Franks (AZ) Miller, Gary Wilson (SC) Scott, David

Serrano

Critz Levin Davis (CA) Loebsack

Frelinghuysen Mulvaney Wittman Serrano

Sewell

Crowley Lewis (GA) Davis (IL) Lofgren, Zoe

Gallegly Murphy (PA) Wolf Sewell

Sherman

Cummings Lipinski DeFazio Lowey

Gardner Myrick Womack Sherman

Sires ´

Davis (CA) Loebsack Woodall DeGette Lujan

Garrett Neugebauer 

Sires

Slaughter

Davis (IL) Lofgren, Zoe DeLauro Lynch

Gerlach Noem Yoder 

Slaughter

Smith (WA) 
´ Speier Smith (WA) 

DeFazio Lowey Dingell Maloney

Gibbs Nugent Young (AK)

DeGette Lujan Doggett Markey

Gingrey (GA) Nunes Young (FL)

Stark Speier

DeLauro Lynch Donnelly (IN) Matsui

Gohmert Nunnelee Young (IN)

Dent Maloney Sutton Edwards McCarthy (NY) Stark 
Dicks Markey Thompson (CA) NOT VOTING—11 Ellison McCollum 

Sutton 

Dingell Matsui Thompson (MS) Engel McDermott Thompson (MS)

Akin Doyle Paul 

Tierney

Doggett McCarthy (NY) Tierney Eshoo McGovern

Bachmann Filner Pelosi

Donnelly (IN) McCollum Tonko Farr McNerney Tonko

Bartlett Giffords Schmidt 

Towns

Edwards McDermott Towns Fattah Meeks

Deutch Hartzler 

Ellison McGovern Tsongas Fitzpatrick Michaud Tsongas 
Engel McIntyre Van Hollen ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR Frank (MA) Miller (NC) Van Hollen 
´ 

Eshoo McNerney Vela´zquez Fudge Miller, George Velazquez 
Farr Meeks Visclosky Garamendi Moore Visclosky

The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). 

There is 1 minute remaining.

Fattah Michaud Walz (MN) Gerlach Moran Walz (MN) 
Frank (MA) Miller (NC) Wasserman Gibson Murphy (CT) Wasserman

b 1716 

Fudge Miller, George Schultz Gonzalez Nadler Schultz 
Garamendi Moore Waters So the amendment was rejected. Green, Al Napolitano Waters 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8053 

Watt Welch Woolsey Wasserman Watt Wilson (FL)

b 1719 

Waxman Wilson (FL) Yarmuth Schultz Waxman Woolsey 
So the amendment was rejected. Waters Welch Yarmuth 
NOES—250 

The result of the vote was announced 

NOES—250 

Adams Gibbs Nugent 

as above recorded. 

Adams Gibbs Noem

Aderholt Gingrey (GA) Nunes 

Stated for: Aderholt Gibson Nugent 
Alexander Goodlatte Olson Mr. FILNER. Mr. Chair, on rollcall 877, I was 

Akin Gohmert Nunnelee 

Akin Gingrey (GA) Nunes 
Alexander Gohmert Nunnelee

Altmire Gosar Palazzo away from the Capitol due to prior commit-

Amash Goodlatte Olson 
ments to my constituents. Had I been present, Amodei Gosar Owens 

Amash Gowdy Paulsen 

Amodei Granger Pearce 
Austria Graves (GA) Pence I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’ Austria Gowdy Palazzo 

Bachus Graves (MO) Peterson 

Bachus Granger Paulsen 

AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. JOHNSON OF 

Barletta Graves (GA) Pearce 
GEORGIA

Barletta Griffin (AR) Petri 

Barrow Graves (MO) Pence 
Barton (TX) Grimm Platts The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished Bartlett Griffin (AR) Peterson 
Bass (NH) Guinta Poe (TX) 

Barrow Griffith (VA) Pitts 

Barton (TX) Griffith (VA) Petri

business is the demand for a recorded 

Bass (NH) Grimm Pitts

Benishek Guthrie Pompeo 

vote on the amendment offered by the Benishek Guinta Platts

Berg Hall Posey 
Biggert Harper Price (GA) gentleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) Berg Guthrie Poe (TX) 
Biggert Hall Pompeo

Bilbray Harris Quayle on which further proceedings were 
Bilirakis Hastings (WA) Reed 

Bilbray Hanna Posey

postponed and on which the noes pre-

Bilirakis Harper Price (GA)

Bishop (GA) Hayworth Rehberg 

vailed by voice vote. Bishop (GA) Harris Quayle 
Black Hensarling Renacci The Clerk will redesignate the Bishop (UT) Hastings (WA) Rehberg 
Blackburn Herger Rigell 

Bishop (UT) Heck Reichert 

Black Hayworth Reichert

amendment. 

Blackburn Heck Renacci 
The Clerk redesignated the amend-Bonner Hensarling Ribble 

Bonner Herrera Beutler Rivera 

Bono Mack Huelskamp Roby 
Boren Huizenga (MI) Roe (TN) ment. 

Bono Mack Herger Rigell 

Boren Herrera Beutler Rivera

Boswell Hultgren Rogers (AL) 

RECORDED VOTE 

Boustany Huelskamp Roby 
Brady (TX) Hurt Rogers (MI) The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote Brady (TX) Huizenga (MI) Roe (TN) 
Brooks Hultgren Rogers (AL) 

Boustany Hunter Rogers (KY) 

Brooks Issa Rohrabacher has been demanded. 
Broun (GA) Jenkins Rokita 

Broun (GA) Hunter Rogers (MI)

A recorded vote was ordered. 

Buchanan Hurt Rohrabacher 
Bucshon Johnson (OH) Ros-Lehtinen The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-Buerkle Issa Rokita 
Buerkle Johnson, Sam Roskam minute vote. 

Buchanan Johnson (IL) Rooney 

Burgess Jenkins Rooney 

Burton (IN) Johnson (IL) Ros-Lehtinen

Burgess Jones Ross (AR) 

The vote was taken by electronic de-

Calvert Johnson (OH) Roskam 
vice, and there were—ayes 170, noes 250, Camp Johnson, Sam Ross (AR)

Burton (IN) Jordan Ross (FL) 

Calvert Kelly Royce 
Camp Kind Runyan not voting 13, as follows: Campbell Jones Ross (FL) 
Campbell King (IA) Ryan (WI) 

Canseco Jordan Royce

[Roll No. 878] 

Cantor Kelly Runyan

Canseco King (NY) Scalise 

AYES—170 Capito King (IA) Ryan (WI) 
Capito Kinzinger (IL) Schock 

Cantor Kingston Schilling 

Cardoza King (NY) Scalise

Ackerman Green, Gene Murphy (CT) 

Carter Kingston Schilling

Cardoza Kissell Schrader 

Altmire Grijalva Nadler 

Cassidy Kinzinger (IL) Schock

Carter Kline Schweikert 

Andrews Gutierrez Napolitano 

Chabot Kissell Schrader

Cassidy Labrador Scott (SC) 

Baca Hahn Neal 

Chaffetz Kline Schweikert

Chabot Lamborn Scott, Austin 

Baldwin Hanabusa Olver 

Chandler Labrador Scott (SC)

Chaffetz Lance Sensenbrenner 

Bass (CA) Hastings (FL) Pallone 

Coble Lamborn Scott, Austin

Chandler Landry Sessions 

Becerra Heinrich 

Pascrell 

Coffman (CO) Lance Sensenbrenner

Coble Lankford Shimkus 

Berkley Higgins 

Pastor (AZ) Cole Landry Sessions

Coffman (CO) Latham Shuler 

Berman Himes 

Payne Conaway Lankford Shimkus

Cole LaTourette Shuster 

Bishop (NY) Hinchey 

Pelosi Cooper Latham Shuler

Conaway Latta Simpson 

Blumenauer Hinojosa 

Perlmutter Costa LaTourette Shuster

Cooper Lewis (CA) Smith (NE) 

Boswell Hirono 

Peters Cravaack Latta Simpson

Costa LoBiondo Smith (NJ) 

Brady (PA) Hochul 

Pingree (ME) Crawford Lewis (CA) Smith (NE)

Cravaack Long Smith (TX) 

Braley (IA) Holden 

Polis Crenshaw LoBiondo Smith (NJ)

Crawford Lucas Southerland 

Brown (FL) Holt 

Price (NC) Cuellar Long Smith (TX)

Crenshaw Luetkemeyer Stearns 

Butterfield Honda 

Quigley Culberson Lucas Southerland

Culberson Lummis Stivers 

Capps Hoyer 

Rahall Davis (KY) Luetkemeyer Stearns

Davis (KY) Lungren, Daniel Stutzman 

Capuano Inslee 

Denham Stivers

Denham E. Sullivan Rangel Lummis

Carnahan Israel 

Dent Lungren, Daniel Stutzman

Dent Mack Terry Reyes

Carney Jackson (IL) 

Richardson DesJarlais E. Sullivan

DesJarlais Manzullo Thompson (CA) 

Carson (IN) Jackson Lee 

Diaz-Balart Terry

Diaz-Balart Marchant Thompson (PA) Richmond Mack

Castor (FL) (TX) 

Rothman (NJ) Dold Manzullo Thompson (PA)

Dicks Marino Thornberry 

Chu Johnson (GA) 

Dreier Thornberry

Dold Matheson Tiberi Roybal-Allard Marchant

Cicilline Johnson, E. B. 

Duffy Marino Tiberi

Dreier McCarthy (CA) Tipton Ruppersberger

Clarke (MI) Kaptur 

Duncan (SC) Matheson Tipton

Duffy McCaul Turner (NY) Rush

Clarke (NY) Keating 

Duncan (TN) McCarthy (CA) Turner (NY)

Duncan (SC) McClintock Turner (OH) Ryan (OH)

Clay Kildee 

Duncan (TN) McCotter Upton Sa´nchez, Linda Ellmers McCaul Turner (OH)

Cleaver Kind 

Emerson McClintock Upton

Ellmers McHenry Walberg T.

Clyburn Kucinich 

Farenthold McCotter Walberg

Emerson McIntyre Walden Sanchez, Loretta

Cohen Langevin 

Fincher McHenry Walden

Farenthold McKeon Walsh (IL) Sarbanes

Connolly (VA) Larsen (WA) 

Fitzpatrick McIntyre Walsh (IL)

Fincher McKinley Webster Schakowsky

Conyers Larson (CT) 

Flake McKeon Webster

Flake McMorris West Schiff

Costello Lee (CA) 

Fleischmann McKinley West

Fleischmann Rodgers Westmoreland Schwartz

Courtney Levin 

Fleming McMorris Westmoreland

Fleming Meehan Whitfield Scott (VA)

Critz Lewis (GA) 

Flores Rodgers Whitfield

Flores Mica Wilson (SC) Scott, David

Crowley Lipinski 

Forbes Meehan Wilson (SC)

Forbes Miller (FL) Wittman Serrano

Cummings Loebsack 

Fortenberry Mica Wittman

Fortenberry Miller (MI) Wolf Sewell

Davis (CA) Lofgren, Zoe 

Foxx Miller (FL) Wolf

Foxx Miller, Gary Womack Sherman

Davis (IL) Lowey 

Franks (AZ) Miller (MI) Womack

Franks (AZ) Mulvaney Woodall Sires

DeFazio Luja´n 

Frelinghuysen Miller, Gary Woodall

Frelinghuysen Murphy (PA) Yoder Slaughter

DeGette Lynch 

Gallegly Mulvaney Yoder

Gallegly Myrick Young (AK) Maloney Smith (WA)

DeLauro 

Gardner Murphy (PA) Young (AK)

Gardner Neugebauer Young (FL) 

Dicks Markey Speier 

Garrett Myrick Young (FL)

Garrett Noem Young (IN) Stark

Dingell Matsui 

Gerlach Neugebauer Young (IN)

Doggett McCarthy (NY) Sutton 

NOT VOTING—11 

Donnelly (IN) McCollum Thompson (CA) NOT VOTING—13 
Bachmann Doyle Hartzler Edwards McDermott Thompson (MS) 

Bachmann Garamendi Reed

Bartlett Filner Paul Ellison McGovern Tierney 

Bucshon Giffords Rogers (KY)

Conyers Giffords Schmidt Engel McNerney Tonko 

Deutch Gonzalez Schmidt

Deutch Grijalva Eshoo Meeks Towns 

Doyle Hartzler

Farr Michaud Tsongas 

Filner Paul

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR Fattah Miller (NC) Van Hollen 
Frank (MA) Miller, George Vela´zquez 

b 1724

The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). 

Fudge Moore Visclosky 
There are 30 seconds remaining. Green, Al Moran Walz (MN) So the amendment was rejected. 


H8054 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

Stated for: 

Mr. FILNER. Mr. Chair, on rollcall 878, I was 
away from the Capitol due to prior commitments 
to my constituents. Had I been present, 
I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’ 

The Acting CHAIR (Mr. GARDNER). 
The question is on the amendment in 
the nature of a substitute, as amended. 

The amendment was agreed to. 

The Acting CHAIR. Under the rule, 
the Committee rises. 

Accordingly, the Committee rose; 
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
BISHOP of Utah) having assumed the 
chair, Mr. GARDNER, Acting Chair of 
the Committee of the Whole House on 
the state of the Union, reported that 
that Committee, having had under consideration 
the bill (H.R. 527) to amend 
chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code 
(commonly known as the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act), to ensure complete 
analysis of potential impacts on small 
entities of rules, and for other purposes, 
and, pursuant to House Resolution 
477, reported the bill back to the 
House with an amendment adopted in 
the Committee of the Whole. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the rule, the previous question is ordered. 


Is a separate vote demanded on the 
amendment to the amendment reported 
from the Committee of the 
Whole? 

If not, the question is on the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute, as 
amended. 

The amendment was agreed to. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the engrossment and 
third reading of the bill. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, and was read the 
third time. 

MOTION TO RECOMMIT 

Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. 
Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to 
recommit at the desk. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the 
gentlewoman opposed to the bill? 

Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. 
I am opposed to the bill, Mr. 
Speaker. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will report the motion to recommit. 


The Clerk read as follows: 

Ms. Loretta Sanchez of California moves to 
recommit the bill H.R. 527 to the Committee 
on the Judiciary with instructions to report 
the same back to the House forthwith, with 
the following amendment: 

Add at the end of the bill the following: 

SEC. ll. PROTECTING INCENTIVES FOR SMALL 
BUSINESSES TO HIRE VETERANS. 

This Act and the amendments made by 
this Act shall not apply to rule makings or 
revisions of rules, if such rule makings or revisions 
are for purposes of providing incentives 
to small businesses (as such term is defined 
in chapter 6 of title 5, United States 
Code) for hiring veterans (as such term is defined 
in section 101(2) of title 38). 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. 
I rise today to offer a final 

amendment to H.R. 527 that, if passed, 
will allow the bill to be brought back 
promptly to take a vote for final passage. 
Mr. Speaker, this final amendment 
is noncontroversial and aims to 
do one simple thing: to protect the incentives 
that assist small businesses to 
hire veterans. This amendment comes 
at a very critical time for our small 
businesses and for our veterans. 

Several weeks ago, this House did 
something that most of America 
doesn’t believe we do anymore. We 
came together, all of us—Republicans 
and Democrats. We voted on a bill, and 
we passed a bill together, unanimously, 
the VOW to Hire Heroes Act of 2011. 

The bill pushes key provisions, like 
providing small businesses with incentives 
so that they will hire veterans 
who have been unable to find employment. 
As a new law, the tax credits 
that we offer in that VOW bill would 
require additional regulations to be 
implemented in order for small businesses 
to begin to hire our veterans. 
Our veterans need jobs—not tomorrow, 
but now. Yet this bill, the one we are 
considering right now, sets up many 
new hurdles and delays for new regulations, 
like those needed for the implementation 
of the VOW to Hire Heroes 
Act. 

In a little more than 2 weeks, we 
went from a 422–0 vote with that VOW 
Act to now potentially hindering our 
small businesses from hiring veterans. 

b 1730 
However, we have a chance to fix 
that. We have a chance to fix that 
right now, and we have a chance to fix 
it and to bring back this vote promptly, 
to bring this bill and vote it today. 
So I ask my colleagues, especially 
those on the other side, what are your 
priorities? I know what my priorities 
are. My priorities are to small businesses 
and my priorities are to our veterans 
who have fought for this Nation. 
Mr. Speaker, if my colleagues on the 
other side truly believe that small 
businesses are what create the jobs in 
America, then we can fix this bill by 
voting for my amendment. If you believe 
that our veterans should not have 
to fight for a job after having fought 
for our country, then we can fix this 
bill by voting for my amendment. 
If my colleagues believe that the 
over 250,000 unemployed veterans under 
the age of 35 deserve a job, then we can 
fix this bill by voting for my amendment. 
I know what this side of the aisle believes. 
We know what the choice is. It’s 
about small businesses creating jobs 
and hiring these brave men and women. 
We want our small businesses to have 
those incentives so that they can hire 
our veterans now, not next year or the 
following year—now. We need jobs now. 
The bill itself raises a lot of regulations 
and hurdles to new implementation, 
but now we can fix the bill, and 
we can help our veterans and our small 
businesses. It’s our duty here in Congress 
to look after those who have 
looked after the people of this country. 

My final amendment does this by ensuring 
that we allow those regulations 
that are needed to protect these incentives 
for the small businesses who want 
to hire veterans. I would have no 
doubt—I would never think that my 
colleagues on any side of the aisle 
would want to intentionally hinder the 
hiring of veterans, especially after I 
saw that unanimous vote right before 
Thanksgiving. Remember that—we finally 
did something together. 

So I ask all of you, let’s do the right 
thing. Will you stand with our veterans 
and small businesses and protect those 
incentives that we voted for 2 weeks 
ago? If you believe it’s the right thing 
to do, then you will vote for this 
amendment. 

If you believe that a 21 percent unemployment 
rate for our young male veterans 
between the ages of 18 and 24 is 
too high, then you will vote for my 
amendment to ensure those incentives 
to hire our veterans will be in place. 

I want to make clear once more to 
my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle; a ‘‘yes’’ vote on my amendment 
will not prevent this bill from being 
voted on today. 

If adopted, it will be incorporated 
into the bill and voted on for final passage. 


I ask my colleagues to do the right 
thing, to fight for protecting the incentives 
that will allow our veterans to be 
hired by small businesses. 

Regardless of how either aisle feels 
about the underlying bill, I know this 
chamber can make the right choice by 
voting ‘‘yes’’ on my amendment. 

Mr. GOWDY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
opposition to the motion to recommit. 

The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman 
from South Carolina is recognized for 5 
minutes. 

Mr. GOWDY. The President in this 
very Chamber said we should have no 
more regulation than is necessary for 
the health, safety, and security of the 
American people. Mr. Speaker, the 
President in this very Chamber conceded 
overregulation has stifled innovation 
and chilled growth and jobs. 
Professor Cass Sunstein, hardly a conservative 
acolyte, said we must take 
aggressive steps to eliminate unjustified 
regulatory burdens, especially in 
today’s economic environment. 

Mr. Speaker, 43 percent of the payroll 
in this country comes from small business, 
two-thirds of all the jobs created 
in the last two decades come from 
small business. Small business, Mr. 
Speaker, is the backbone of this economy 
and the single best way for all 
Americans, veterans included, but all 
Americans, to experience the majesty 
of the American Dream. 

So one would think that our colleagues 
would storm the aisle to join 
us in providing relief to small business, 
including veterans. One might think 
our colleagues would help us rush to 
form a phalanx against an overreaching 
regulatory apparatus. 

So, Mr. Speaker, let’s stop using veterans 
as political footballs and start 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8055 

helping all Americans, including veterans. 
The Regulatory Flexibility Improvement 
Act of 2011 is a logical reform. 
It simply asks agencies to do the 
kind of pre-regulatory analysis they 
should have been doing anyway. Frankly, 
the bill seeks to enact much of what 
the President claims he wants with respect 
to regulatory reform, since small 
business creates most of our jobs. 

Since regulatory compliance costs 
are higher for them than for larger 
competitors, Congress passed the RFA 
of 1980 requiring agencies to analyze 
regulations in advance. Hardly a revolutionary 
idea, Mr. Speaker. Know the 
consequences of your actions before 
you act, especially when it comes to 
having a chilling effect on job creation. 

But the experience over the last 15 
years has shown the law needs to be reformed, 
Mr. Speaker, and updated because 
agencies aren’t getting the message. 


This bill requires agencies to do what 
they should be doing anyway, which is 
to calculate the impact of their regulations 
on job creators beforehand, to 
make sure all agencies follow the rules, 
not some of the time, not when they 
feel like it, but all of the time. 

Mr. Speaker, our fellow citizens want 
to work. They want to meet the needs 
of their families. They want to meet 
their societal obligations, and we 
should be doing everything in our 
power to make sure regulatory agencies 
‘‘measure twice and cut once.’’ 
And our job requires and this bill ensures 
that they get the message. 

For this reason, Mr. Speaker, I urge 
my colleagues to oppose the motion to 
recommit. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without 
objection, the previous question is ordered 
on the motion to recommit. 

There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion to recommit. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. 
Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded 
vote. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 and 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on the motion to recommit 
will be followed by 5-minute votes 
on passage of H.R. 527, if ordered; and 
suspension of the rules with regard to 
House Resolution 364. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 188, noes 233, 
not voting 12, as follows: 

[Roll No. 879] 
AYES—188 
Ackerman Bishop (GA) Capuano 
Altmire Bishop (NY) Cardoza 
Andrews Blumenauer Carnahan 
Baca Boren Carney 
Baldwin Boswell Carson (IN) 
Barrow Brady (PA) Castor (FL) 
Bass (CA) Braley (IA) Chandler 
Becerra Brown (FL) Chu 
Berkley Butterfield Cicilline 
Berman Capps Clarke (MI) 

Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly (VA) 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Costello 
Courtney 
Critz 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis (IL) 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
DeLauro 
Deutch 
Dicks 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Donnelly (IN) 
Duncan (TN) 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Farr 
Fattah 
Frank (MA) 
Fudge 
Garamendi 
Gonzalez 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 
Hanabusa 
Hastings (FL) 
Higgins 
Himes 
Hinchey 
Hinojosa 
Hirono 
Hochul 
Holden 
Holt 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Inslee 
Israel 

Adams 
Aderholt 
Akin 
Alexander 
Amash 
Amodei 
Austria 
Bachus 
Barletta 
Bartlett 
Barton (TX) 
Bass (NH) 
Benishek 
Berg 
Biggert 
Bilbray 
Bilirakis 
Bishop (UT) 
Blackburn 
Bonner 
Bono Mack 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Brooks 
Broun (GA) 
Buchanan 
Bucshon 
Buerkle 
Burgess 
Burton (IN) 
Calvert 
Camp 
Campbell 
Canseco 
Cantor 
Capito 
Carter 
Cassidy 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Coble 
Coffman (CO) 
Cole 

Jackson (IL) 
Jackson Lee 

(TX) 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Jones 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kildee 
Kind 
Kissell 
Kucinich 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 
Lewis (GA) 
Lipinski 
Loebsack 
Lofgren, Zoe 
Lowey 
Lynch 
Maloney 
Markey 
Matheson 
Matsui 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McIntyre 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Michaud 
Miller (NC) 
Miller, George 
Moore 
Moran 
Murphy (CT) 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Olver 
Owens 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters 
Peterson 
Pingree (ME) 

NOES—233 

Conaway 
Cravaack 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Culberson 
Davis (KY) 
Denham 
Dent 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Dold 
Dreier 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Ellmers 
Emerson 
Farenthold 
Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Flake 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Flores 
Forbes 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Gallegly 
Gardner 
Garrett 
Gerlach 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gingrey (GA) 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (MO) 
Griffin (AR) 

Polis 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Reyes 
Richardson 
Richmond 
Ross (AR) 
Rothman (NJ) 
Roybal-Allard 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Sa´nchez, Linda 

T. 
Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schrader 
Schwartz 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, David 
Serrano 
Sewell 
Sherman 
Shuler 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Stark 
Sutton 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Tierney 
Tonko 
Towns 
Tsongas 
Van Hollen 
Vela´zquez 
Visclosky 
Walz (MN) 
Wasserman 

Schultz 
Waters 
Watt 
Waxman 
Welch 
Wilson (FL) 
Woolsey 
Yarmuth 

Griffith (VA) 
Grimm 
Guinta 
Guthrie 
Hall 
Hanna 
Harper 
Harris 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayworth 
Heck 
Hensarling 
Herger 
Herrera Beutler 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurt 
Issa 
Jenkins 
Johnson (IL) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jordan 
Kelly 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Labrador 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Landry 
Lankford 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Latta 
Lewis (CA) 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Lucas 

Luetkemeyer Pitts Shuster 
Lummis Platts Simpson 
Lungren, Daniel Poe (TX) Smith (NE) 

E. Pompeo Smith (NJ) 
Mack Posey 
Smith (TX)
Manzullo Price (GA) 

Southerland 
Marchant Quayle 

Stearns 

Marino Reed 

Stivers

McCarthy (CA) Rehberg 

Stutzman

McCaul Reichert 

Sullivan

McClintock Renacci 

Terry

McCotter Ribble 

Thompson (PA)

McHenry Rigell 
McKeon Rivera 

Thornberry 

Tiberi 
McMorris Roe (TN) 

McKinley Roby 

Tipton 
Rodgers Rogers (AL) Turner (NY) 
Meehan Rogers (KY) Turner (OH) 
Mica Rogers (MI) Upton 
Miller (FL) Rohrabacher Walberg 
Miller (MI) Rokita Walden 
Miller, Gary Rooney Walsh (IL) 
Mulvaney Ros-Lehtinen 

Webster 
Murphy (PA) Roskam 

West 
Myrick Ross (FL) 

Westmoreland 

Neugebauer Royce 

Whitfield 

Noem Runyan 

Wilson (SC)

Nugent Ryan (WI) 

Wittman

Nunes Scalise 

Wolf

Nunnelee Schilling 

Womack

Olson Schweikert 

Woodall

Palazzo Scott (SC) 
Paulsen Scott, Austin 

Yoder 

Young (AK) 
Pence Sessions Young (FL) 
Petri Shimkus Young (IN) 

Pearce Sensenbrenner 

NOT VOTING—12 

Bachmann Filner Luja´n 
Black Giffords Paul 
Cleaver Hartzler Schmidt 
Doyle Heinrich Schock 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (during 
the vote). There are 2 minutes remaining. 


b 1755 

So the motion to recommit was rejected. 


The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

Stated for: 

Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall 879, I 
was away from the Capitol due to prior commitments 
to my constituents. Had I been 
present, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’ 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the passage of the bill. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 
5-minute vote. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 263, noes 159, 
not voting 11, as follows: 

[Roll No. 880] 

AYES—263 
Adams Bilbray Buerkle 
Aderholt Bilirakis Burgess 
Akin Bishop (GA) Burton (IN) 
Alexander Bishop (UT) Calvert 
Altmire Black Camp 
Amash Blackburn Campbell 
Amodei Bonner Canseco 
Austria Bono Mack Cantor 
Barletta Boren Capito 
Barrow Boswell Carney 
Bartlett Boustany Carter 
Barton (TX) Brady (TX) Cassidy 
Bass (NH) Brooks Chabot 
Benishek Broun (GA) Chaffetz 
Berg Buchanan Chandler 
Biggert Bucshon Coble 


H8056 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 
Coffman (CO) Jenkins Price (GA) Jackson Lee Moore Schwartz Amash Dingell King (IA) 
Cole Johnson (IL) Quayle (TX) Moran Scott (VA) Amodei Doggett King (NY) 
Conaway Johnson (OH) Rahall Johnson (GA) Murphy (CT) Scott, David Andrews Dold Kingston 
Cooper Johnson, Sam Reed Johnson, E. B. Nadler Serrano Austria Donnelly (IN) Kinzinger (IL) 
Costa 
Cravaack 
Jones 
Jordan 
Rehberg 
Reichert 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Sewell 
Sherman 
Baca 
Bachus 
Dreier 
Duffy 
Kissell 
Kline 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Critz 
Cuellar 
Culberson 
Davis (KY) 
DeFazio 
Denham 
Dent 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Dold 
Dreier 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Ellmers 
Emerson 
Farenthold 
Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Flake 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Flores 
Forbes 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Gallegly 
Gardner 
Garrett 
Gerlach 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gingrey (GA) 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (MO) 
Griffin (AR) 
Griffith (VA) 
Grimm 
Guinta 
Guthrie 
Hall 
Hanna 
Harper 
Harris 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayworth 
Heck 
Hensarling 
Herger 
Herrera Beutler 
Hochul 
Holden 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurt 
Issa 
Ackerman 
Andrews 
Kelly 
Kind 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kissell 
Kline 
Labrador 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Landry 
Lankford 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Latta 
Lewis (CA) 
LoBiondo 
Loebsack 
Long 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
Lungren, Daniel 
E. 
Mack 
Manzullo 
Marchant 
Marino 
Matheson 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McCotter 
McHenry 
McIntyre 
McKeon 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
Meehan 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Miller, Gary 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (PA) 
Myrick 
Neugebauer 
Noem 
Nugent 
Nunes 
Nunnelee 
Olson 
Owens 
Palazzo 
Paulsen 
Pearce 
Pence 
Perlmutter 
Peterson 
Petri 
Pitts 
Platts 
Poe (TX) 
Pompeo 
Posey 
NOES—159 
Clay 
Clyburn 
Renacci 
Ribble 
Rigell 
Rivera 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rogers (MI) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross (AR) 
Ross (FL) 
Royce 
Runyan 
Ryan (WI) 
Scalise 
Schilling 
Schock 
Schrader 
Schweikert 
Scott (SC) 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuler 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Southerland 
Stearns 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Sullivan 
Sutton 
Terry 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Turner (NY) 
Turner (OH) 
Upton 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walsh (IL) 
Walz (MN) 
Webster 
West 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Wolf 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 
Young (IN) 
Frank (MA) 
Fudge 
Kildee Pallone Sires 
Kucinich Pascrell SlaughterLangevin Pastor (AZ) Smith (WA)
Larsen (WA) Payne 
SpeierLarson (CT) Pelosi 
StarkLee (CA) Peters 
Thompson (CA)Levin Pingree (ME) 
Lewis (GA) Polis Thompson (MS) 
Lipinski Price (NC) Tierney 
Lofgren, Zoe Quigley Tonko 
Lowey Rangel Towns 
Luja´ n Reyes Tsongas 
Lynch Richardson Van Hollen 
Maloney Richmond Vela´ zquez 
Markey Rothman (NJ) Visclosky 
Matsui Roybal-Allard Wasserman 
McCarthy (NY) Ruppersberger Schultz 
McCollum Rush Waters 
McDermott Ryan (OH) Watt 
McGovern Sa´ nchez, Linda Waxman 
McNerney T. WelchMeeks Sanchez, Loretta Wilson (FL)
Michaud Sarbanes 
WoolseyMiller (NC) Schakowsky 
YarmuthMiller, George Schiff 
NOT VOTING—11 
Bachmann Filner Paul 
Bachus Giffords Schmidt 
Cleaver Hartzler Tipton 
Doyle Olver 
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during 
the vote). There is 1 minute remaining. 
b 1801 
So the bill was passed. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 
Stated for: 
Mr. BACHUS. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall No. 
880 on final passage of H.R. 527, I was on 
the House floor, but inadvertently missed the 
voted. Had I been recorded, I would have 
voted ‘‘aye.’’ 
Stated against: 
Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall No. 
880, I was away from the Capitol due to prior 
commitments to my constituents. Had I been 
present, I would have voted ‘‘no.’’ 
f 
GABRIEL ZIMMERMAN MEETING 
ROOM 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The unfinished 
business is the vote on the motion 
to suspend the rules and agree to 
the resolution (H. Res. 364) designating 
room HVC 215 of the Capitol Visitor 
Center as the ‘‘Gabriel Zimmerman 
Baldwin 
Barletta 
Barrow 
Bartlett 
Barton (TX) 
Bass (CA) 
Bass (NH) 
Becerra 
Benishek 
Berg 
Berkley 
Berman 
Biggert 
Bilbray 
Bilirakis 
Bishop (GA) 
Bishop (NY) 
Bishop (UT) 
Black 
Blackburn 
Blumenauer 
Bonner 
Bono Mack 
Boren 
Boswell 
Boustany 
Brady (PA) 
Brady (TX) 
Braley (IA) 
Brooks 
Broun (GA) 
Brown (FL) 
Buchanan 
Bucshon 
Buerkle 
Burgess 
Burton (IN) 
Butterfield 
Calvert 
Camp 
Campbell 
Cantor 
Capito 
Capps 
Capuano 
Cardoza 
Carnahan 
Carney 
Carson (IN) 
Carter 
Cassidy 
Castor (FL) 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Chandler 
Chu 
Cicilline 
Clarke (MI) 
Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Coble 
Coffman (CO) 
Cohen 
Cole 
Conaway 
Connolly (VA) 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Ellmers 
Emerson 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Farenthold 
Farr 
Fattah 
Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Flake 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Forbes 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Fudge 
Gallegly 
Gardner 
Garrett 
Gerlach 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gingrey (GA) 
Gohmert 
Gonzalez 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (MO) 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Griffin (AR) 
Griffith (VA) 
Grijalva 
Grimm 
Guinta 
Guthrie 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 
Hall 
Hanabusa 
Hanna 
Harper 
Harris 
Hastings (FL) 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayworth 
Heck 
Heinrich 
Hensarling 
Herger 
Herrera Beutler 
Higgins 
Himes 
Hinchey 
Hinojosa 
Hirono 
Hochul 
Holden 
Holt 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Huelskamp 
Kucinich 
Labrador 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Landry 
Langevin 
Lankford 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Latta 
Lee (CA) 
Levin 
Lewis (CA) 
Lewis (GA) 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Loebsack 
Lofgren, Zoe 
Long 
Lowey 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Luja´ n 
Lummis 
Lungren, Daniel 
E. 
Lynch 
Mack 
Maloney 
Manzullo 
Marchant 
Marino 
Markey 
Matheson 
Matsui 
McCarthy (CA) 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McCollum 
McCotter 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McHenry 
McIntyre 
McKeon 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McNerney 
Meehan 
Meeks 
Mica 
Michaud 
Miller (MI) 
Miller (NC) 
Miller, Gary 
Miller, George 
Moore 
Moran 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (CT) 
Murphy (PA) 
Myrick 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Neugebauer 
Noem 
Nugent 
Baca 
Baldwin 
Bass (CA) 
Becerra 
Berkley 
Berman 
Bishop (NY) 
Blumenauer 
Brady (PA) 
Braley (IA) 
Brown (FL) 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Cardoza 
Carnahan 
Carson (IN) 
Castor (FL) 
Chu 
Cicilline 
Cohen 
Connolly (VA) 
Conyers 
Costello 
Courtney 
Crowley 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis (IL) 
DeGette 
DeLauro 
Deutch 
Dicks 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Donnelly (IN) 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Garamendi 
Gonzalez 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutierrez 
Hahn 
Hanabusa 
Hastings (FL) 
Heinrich 
Higgins 
Himes 
Hinchey 
Hinojosa 
Hirono 
Holt 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Inslee 
Meeting Room’’, on which the yeas and 
nays were ordered. 
The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion offered by 
the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. 
FLEISCHMANN) that the House suspend 
the rules and agree to the resolution. 
This is a 5-minute vote. 
The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 419, nays 0, 
not voting 14, as follows: 
[Roll No. 881] 
YEAS—419 
Costello 
Courtney 
Cravaack 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Critz 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Culberson 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis (IL) 
Davis (KY) 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
DeLauro 
Denham 
Dent 
DesJarlais 
Deutch 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurt 
Inslee 
Israel 
Issa 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson Lee 
(TX) 
Jenkins 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson (IL) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones 
Jordan 
Kaptur 
Kelly 
Nunes 
Nunnelee 
Olson 
Olver 
Owens 
Palazzo 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor (AZ) 
Paulsen 
Payne 
Pearce 
Pelosi 
Pence 
Perlmutter 
Peters 
Peterson 
Petri 
Pingree (ME) 
Pitts 
Clarke (MI) Farr Israel Ackerman Aderholt Alexander Diaz-Balart Kildee Platts 
Clarke (NY) Fattah Jackson (IL) Adams Akin Altmire Dicks Kind Poe (TX) 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8057 

Polis Sanchez, Loretta Thornberry 
Pompeo Sarbanes Tiberi 
Posey Scalise Tierney 
Price (GA) Schakowsky Tipton 
Price (NC) Schiff 

Tonko 
Quayle Schilling 

Towns 

Quigley Schock 

Tsongas

Rahall Schrader 

Turner (NY)

Rangel Schwartz 

Turner (OH)

Reed Schweikert 

Upton

Rehberg Scott (SC) 

Van Hollen

Reichert Scott (VA) 

Vela´zquez

Renacci Scott, Austin 

Visclosky

Reyes Scott, David 
Ribble Sensenbrenner 

Walberg 
Richardson Serrano 

Walden 
Richmond Sessions Walsh (IL) 
Rigell Sewell Walz (MN) 
Rivera Sherman Wasserman 
Roby Shimkus Schultz 
Roe (TN) Shuler Waters 
Rogers (AL) Shuster Watt 
Rogers (KY) Simpson Waxman 
Rogers (MI) Sires 

Webster 
Rohrabacher Slaughter 

Welch 
Rokita Smith (NE) 

West 

Rooney Smith (NJ) 

Westmoreland 

Ros-Lehtinen Smith (TX) 

Whitfield

Roskam Smith (WA) 

Wilson (FL)

Ross (AR) Southerland 

Wilson (SC)

Ross (FL) Speier 

Wittman

Rothman (NJ) Stark 

Wolf

Roybal-Allard Stearns 
Royce Stivers 

Womack 

Woodall 
Ruppersberger Sullivan 

Runyan Stutzman 

Woolsey 
Rush Sutton 

Yarmuth 
Ryan (OH) Terry Yoder 
Ryan (WI) Thompson (CA) Young (AK) 
Sa´nchez, Linda Thompson (MS) Young (FL) 

T. Thompson (PA) Young (IN) 
NOT VOTING—14 

Bachmann Frank (MA) McKinley 
Canseco Garamendi Miller (FL) 
Doyle Giffords Paul 
Filner Hartzler 

Schmidt 
Flores Keating 

b 1808 
So (two-thirds being in the affirmative) 
the rules were suspended and the 
resolution was agreed to. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 
Stated for: 

Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall 881, I 
was away from the Capitol due to prior commitments 
to my constituents. Had I been 
present, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’ 

f 

REPORT ON RESOLUTION PROVIDING 
FOR CONSIDERATION OF 

H.R. 10, REGULATIONS FROM THE 
EXECUTIVE IN NEED OF SCRUTINY 
ACT OF 2011 
Mr. NUGENT, from the Committee 
on Rules, submitted a privileged report 
(Rept. No. 112–311) on the resolution (H. 
Res. 479) providing for consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 10) to amend chapter 8 of 
title 5, United States Code, to provide 
that major rules of the executive 
branch shall have no force or effect unless 
a joint resolution of approval is enacted 
into law, and for other purposes, 
which was referred to the House Calendar 
and ordered to be printed. 

f 

SOUTHERN MISSISSIPPI GOLDEN 

EAGLES TAKE ON HOUSTON COU


GARS 

(Mr. PALAZZO asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. PALAZZO. Mr. Speaker, this 
weekend the 10–2 University of Southern 
Mississippi Golden Eagles are going 
to be traveling to Houston, Texas, to 
win the Conference U.S. Championship 
Game. As a fourth generation Golden 
Eagle, I would like to place a friendly 
wager with my colleague from Houston, 
Texas—a gallon of Mary 
Mahoney’s famous seafood gumbo— 
that we will walk away victorious. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. PALAZZO. I yield to the gentlewoman 
from Texas. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. I am a 
proud Cougar, and as you well know, 
Cougars are silent, fast, and deadly. We 
welcome Southern Miss to Houston, 
Texas, the 12–0 Cougars, and we plan to 
give you all the barbecue you can eat 
as we celebrate the victory of the great 
Cougars, University of Houston, academic 
and athletic champions. It’s a 
pleasure to place this wager with you 
tonight. Cougars—ready to pounce on 
you. 

Mr. PALAZZO. Well, our Golden Eagles’ 
talons are going to be out. 
They’re going to be ready. They’re 
going to be sharp, and we’re going to 
rip you all to shreds. I accept your 
wager. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE of Texas. Peace 
in the valley. Victory for the Cougars. 

f 

b 1810 

POSTAL REFORM LEGISLATION 

(Mr. CRAWFORD asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, in fiscal 
year 2011, the United States Postal 
Service brought in $65.7 billion in revenue 
but spent $70.6 billion. When 
counting a $5.5 billion mandatory payment 
to fund retiree health benefits, 
which they would have defaulted on already 
were it not for the extensions on 
the payment, the postal service ran a 
deficit of $10.6 billion. 

In an attempt to cut costs, the postal 
service has announced that it’s considering 
closing over 3,600 post offices, the 
large majority of which are rural. By 
the postal service’s own numbers, they 
would only save $200 million annually 
if they were to close each of these post 
offices. 

This is kind of like asking a family of 
four that makes $65,700 a year and adds 
$10,600 in credit card, and then only 
cuts $200 from their annual budget to 
get their finances under control. 

Last month I visited the Grubbs and 
Sedgwick post offices, two of the 100 
post offices that are being considered 
for closure in my rural district. Residents 
in both towns told me about the 
important role that their post office 
plays in their communities. 

In order to prevent the post office 
from unfairly targeting rural communities, 
I recently introduced H.R. 3370, 
the Protecting our Rural Post Offices 
Act of 2011. The legislation would pre


vent the postal service from closing 
any post office that does not have an 
alternate post office within 8 miles 
driving. 

f 

VOTER SUPPRESSION 
(Ms. WOOLSEY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 
Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, it’s bad 
enough that the people who control 
this body aren’t interested in creating 
jobs for the American people. But now, 
if people want new leadership in the 
House, if they want a Congress that 
will finally focus on job creation, 
they’re foiled by restrictive election 
laws designed to suppress the vote. 
Guess which populations are disenfranchised 
by strict photo ID requirements 
and other barriers to political 
participation? 
It’s not the wealthiest 1 percent. It’s 
not the affluent and the comfortable. 
It’s not, frankly, the base of the Republican 
Party. It’s disproportionately 
communities of color and low-income 
families who are having their rights 
undermined and even stripped away. 
These laws, passing in State after 
State, are underhanded. They’re an attempt 
to consolidate political power. 
They are unfair, undemocratic. And 
voting rights are among the most precious 
privileges that we have as citizens, 
and they must be protected. 

f 

LARRY MUNSON 
(Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia 
asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.) 
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. 
Speaker, as a University of Georgia 
graduate and lifelong Bulldog fan, I’d 
like to pay tribute to a fallen legend in 
the Bulldog Nation. Last week, Larry 
Munson passed away at the great age 
of 89. 
From an announcer for Major League 
Baseball to a U.S. Army medic during 
World War II, Larry Munson was a 
leader and a hero. However, he’ll best 
be known for his time spent as a radio 
football announcer for the Georgia 
Bulldogs. 
For over 40 years, his passionate and 
authentic sportscasting set him apart 
from every other sports broadcaster. In 
fact, many of his phrases have become 
a part of Bulldog fan lore. From Herschel 
Walker running over people, to 
Kevin Butler’s 100,000-mile field goal, 
Larry Munson’s radio calls will live as 
some of the most memorable in college 
football. 
Georgia Bulldog fans will never forget 
the sugar falling out of the sky and 
the hobnail boot. Thus, with the Georgia 
Bulldogs and the LSU Tigers to 
square off this weekend in the SEC 
championship, I end with the words 
Bulldog fans are used to hearing from 
Mr. Munson each and every game day: 
‘‘As we prepare for another meeting 
between the hedges, let all the Bulldog 


H8058 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

faithful rally behind the men who now 
wear the red and black with two words, 
two simple words which express the 
sentiments of the entire Bulldog Nation: 
Go Dawgs.’’ 

f 

DEMANDING RELEASE OF ALAN 
GROSS FROM CUBAN PRISON 

(Mr. ENGEL asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, today is 
the second anniversary of the unfair 
and brutal incarceration by the Cuban 
regime of Alan Gross, an American citizen; 
and I urge his immediate release. 

Alan Gross is 62 years old and, in a 
trumped-up trial, was given 15 years in 
prison. Alan Gross has worked in international 
development in over 50 countries 
through the past several years 
and was in Cuba to aid the tiny Jewish 
community with telecommunications 
and Internet services when he was arrested 
and accused of being an American 
spy. This is a new low even for the 
Cuban regime. This is a new low even 
for the Castro brothers. 

Alan Gross’s wife and family need 
him. His mother was just diagnosed 
with inoperable cancer, and his daughter 
was also diagnosed with cancer. 
They need him back. 

We demand him back. He is an American 
citizen, and we are watching and 
the whole world is watching. Alan 
Gross should not be incarcerated for 
doing nothing except trying to help a 
very tiny community in Cuba. And I 
demand his immediate release. 

f 

ECONOMIC RECOVERY 
(Mr. KINGSTON asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I think 
there are four things the United States 
of America needs to do to turn the 
economy around. 
Number one, we need to balance the 
budget. We can do this on a bipartisan 
basis just by reducing the duplications 
in government and the overlap between 
State functions and Federal functions; 
also getting through the waste, and 
then trimming off 1 percent over time 
to bring revenues and spending at the 
same level. Right now spending is at 23 
percent. Revenues historically have 
been at 18 percent. Common sense says 
you need to balance those out. 
Number two, we need to get rid of the 
regulatory overload on businesses that 
are creating the jobs right now. Change 
regulations from an ‘‘I gotcha’’ mentality 
to one that ‘‘we’re here to help 
because we’re in it together,’’ for worker 
safety, environmental protection or 
whatever. We can do a lot just by 
changing the attitude of the regulators. 
Number three, we need tax reform, 
tax simplification so that taxes are 
fair. The Tax Code needs to be a half an 

inch deep and miles and miles wide so 
that everyone is participating. Let’s 
get rid of the underbrush, all the loopholes. 


Number four, and finally we need to 
drill our own oil. We cannot keep importing 
65 percent of our oil. We need 
to have an all-of-the-above energy policy. 


f 

FIXING MEDICARE 
REIMBURSEMENT RATE 

(Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. Mr. 
Speaker, I rise today to speak on behalf 
of the 600,000 Medicare beneficiaries 
in Connecticut and the thousands 
of physicians who care for them. 
We need to take up a bill in this Congress 
over the next several weeks to finally 
fix the flawed Medicare sustainable 
growth rate formula. 

Since 2003, for almost a decade, physicians 
have been dealing with the uncertainty 
that comes with scheduled 
annual rate reductions. They’re staring 
at a 28 percent reduction right now. 
That means about $28,000 per year per 
Connecticut physician. 

If this were to happen, it would happen 
at the worst possible time. With all 
the baby boomers coming on to the 
Medicare rolls, there would be a lot of 
physicians who just couldn’t take 
Medicare patients any longer. They’d 
likely have to lay off workers at a time 
when we already have 9 percent unemployment 
in Connecticut and across 
the Nation. 

This is unacceptable and we have to 
do something about it. So over the 
next several weeks, let’s fix this once 
and for all. Let’s stand together as a 
Congress and put an end to this outdated 
system and provide some certainty 
and security for America’s seniors 
and America’s physicians. 

f 

b 1820 

URGING SENATE ACTION ON JOBS 
LEGISLATION 

(Mr. MICA asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. MICA. Mr. Speaker and my colleagues, 
it’s time for the other body to 
act. 

The Republican-controlled House of 
Representatives has a plan for putting 
Americans back to work. We’ve moved 
on more than 20 pieces of legislation 
that now sit idly in the other body. We 
have provisions that will empower 
small businesses—the great job creators 
of America. We have provisions 
that will fix the Tax Code to help create 
jobs. We have provisions that will 
help manufacturing to have jobs in 
America, not overseas. We have provisions 
that will encourage entrepreneurship 
and growth and maximize American 
energy production. And all of 

these measures sit over in the other 
body. 

I call on the leadership of the other 
body and all Members to get this legislation 
moving forward. There are millions 
of people without jobs, and they 
need us to act not later but now. 

And finally, I call on them to help finalize 
a 41/2-year-old, with more than 21 
extensions, FAA bill that still languishes. 
It’s time to stop the nonsense 
and get America back to work. 

Let’s pass these bills held hostage. 

f 

CONGRESSIONAL PROGRESSIVE 
CAUCUS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
MEEHAN). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of January 5, 2011, the 
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. ELLISON) 
is recognized for 60 minutes as the 
designee of the minority leader. 

Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, thank 
you. 

My name is KEITH ELLISON, cochair 
of the Progressive Caucus, and I do 
hereby claim this Special Order hour 
on behalf of the Progressive Caucus. 

Right away, I’d like to introduce my 
good friend from the great State of 
Georgia, Congressman HANK JOHNSON, 
who has served with distinction along 
with me since 2007. Congressman JOHNSON 
is the whip of the Progressive Caucus. 
Tonight we’re going to be talking 
about jobs, income inequality, and 
we’re going to be talking about this 
issue on behalf of the Congressional 
Progressive Caucus. 

Our Web page is right here at the 
bottom of this document that I’m 
showing, Mr. Speaker. So we do encourage 
people to sign up and get ahold 
of us. 

In the very beginning of this hour, I 
want to recognize my friend from Georgia 
so that he can make some introductory 
remarks about the importance of 
jobs, just as soon as he’s ready to take 
it on. 

If the gentleman is prepared to make 
some opening and preliminary remarks 
about the importance of jobs, economic 
justice in the American middle class, I 
would like to yield to the gentleman to 
take it away there. 

Congressman JOHNSON. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I thank 
the gentleman from Minnesota, my 
junior in the House. When I say that, I 
mean we’re both juniors, having served 
now in our third terms. We will be officially 
recognized, I guess if we’re fortunate 
to make it back for the 113th Congress, 
that will be our fourth term. We 
will be seniors, and we will be permanent 
seniors as long as the voters allow 
us to be. And we certainly want to do 
what the voters want us to do here. 

What the voters of the Fourth Congressional 
District of Georgia tell me 
over and over and over again, day in 
and day out, 24–7, is that jobs is the 
issue, and they want us to pass the 
President’s job creation bill. They 
don’t understand why simple proposals 
that will create jobs and reinvigorate 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8059 

our economy are something that we 
can’t come to grips with here on the 
House floor. And I tell them to keep 
the faith, but I also tell them where 
the problem lies. It is not with the 
President. It’s not with the Democrats 
in the House of Representatives. It’s 
with my friends on the other side of 
the aisle, the Tea Party-Grover 
Norquist Republicans who want to balance 
the budget. Their main issue is 
balancing our budget. And certainly 
our budget needs to be balanced, and 
that’s something that we should do. 
It’s not our first priority. 

Our priority right now, and I agree 
with the people of the Fourth District, 
it should be jobs. And if we don’t create 
jobs, if we leave people on unemployment 
or unemployment having expired, 
that means less money circulating in 
the economy. If there’s less money circulating, 
less economic activity, less 
job creation. And so there’s a lot that 
we can do, Congressman ELLISON, to 
help the people, especially during this 
holiday season. 

Mr. ELLISON. I thank the gentleman. 


I just want to say this is the holiday 
season. We should have a spirit of charity 
in looking out for our fellow Americans 
during this time of year. But unfortunately, 
we have seen a no-jobs 
agenda from the party opposite. From 
the majority party, we have been here 
11 months, we haven’t seen any jobs 
bills out of them. 

They say that tearing apart the EPA 
is a jobs bill. It is not a jobs bill. They 
say that damaging the National Labor 
Relations Board is somehow going to 
bring forth jobs. It will not. 

Everything they say is a jobs bill basically 
boils down to two things—I 
think you might agree, Congressman— 
is deconstructing health and safety 
rules and cutting taxes for people who 
already are rich; and this is not a jobs 
bill. 

A jobs bill is taking care of our Nation’s 
infrastructure, putting our veterans 
back to work, as we tried to do 
today. The Democratic Caucus offered 
a motion to recommit to help support 
jobs for our veterans, get small businesses 
to hire them, and we didn’t get 
any Republican support, which is quite 
amazing to me. 

The fact is that, yes, here we are 
nearing the end of this year, nearing 
the end of 2011, and we’re seeing unemployment 
insurance perhaps about to 
run out. We’re seeing payroll tax cuts 
about to run out. Therefore, some people 
will see the end of their unemployment 
insurance and other people will 
see an increase in their payroll taxes. 

And it shocks me that our Republican 
friends are all for tax cuts, can’t 
wait to vote for a tax cut, dying to 
vote for a tax cut whenever the recipient 
of the tax cut is rich. But if the tax 
cut happens to go to somebody who 
works hard for a living, who goes to 
work, gets their hands dirty and comes 
home, they don’t want to see a tax cut 
for that person. They just want to see 
tax cuts for only some people. 

I think that you’re right to describe 
our colleagues as the Tea Party-Grover 
Norquist Republican Party because 
that seems to be who’s running things 
over there. 

You know, my father was a Republican. 
He is a Republican. He hasn’t 
voted that way in a while. But he says, 
I remember you guys could go down 
there and talk. You could debate the 
issues. Some of us wanted to pinch a 
penny a little harder, some of us wanted 
to emphasize pulling yourself up by 
your bootstraps a little more. You liberals 
want to help everybody. 

That’s what he says about me. But 
the point is we could find a way to get 
along. 

Today the moderate Republican, I’m 
looking for him. I can’t wait to have 
him show up, because I cannot see anybody 
who has the spirit of cooperation 
that we could cut a deal with that 
could balance fiscal discipline on the 
one hand and the need to help and respond 
to the needs of Americans on the 
other hand. We see people who are carrying 
forth an extreme ideological 
agenda that is all around tax breaks 
only for the rich people, that revolves 
around unemployment being ignored, 
that revolves around all of these 
things. 

They say ‘‘jobs.’’ People shouldn’t be 
confused, Congressman JOHNSON. You 
will hear Republicans say ‘‘jobs.’’ You 
just won’t see them do anything about 
jobs, because if they want to do something 
about jobs, we could pass the 
American Jobs Act right away. 

b 1830 
We could help make sure those payroll 
tax deductions are extended, and 
we could make sure unemployment 
benefits are extended, but we’re just 
not seeing any of that. 
What we are seeing is described on 
this board right here, which is the Republican 
no-jobs agenda. They’ve got a 
no-jobs program. They’re saying, Get 
rid of the EPA, the Environmental Protection 
Agency, which protects the 
water and our lungs; make sure we are 
subject to toxic, hazardous waste and 
pollution; and cut taxes for rich people. 
Then somehow, magically, we’ll end up 
with jobs. That’s not going to give anybody 
a job. 
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. It certainly 
will not create any jobs. There 
is a false perception that has been 
bought into wholesale, unanimously, 
by my Tea Party-Grover Norquist Republican 
friends, and that is that deregulation 
somehow creates jobs. 
Now, I know what kind of jobs are 
created when you deregulate the health 
and safety of food, water, air quality, 
drugs, Wall Street. I know what happens 
when you don’t have any regulations. 
It means you’re going to have 
more people going to the doctor because 
of unsafe and unhealthy conditions—
adulterated food, water. It 
means that you will have more—— 
Mr. ELLISON. Asthma. 
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. People in 
the mortuary business who are trying 

to determine the cause of death for 
people. You will have more cleanup 
workers, workers who are dispatched 
to clean up toxic sites. You’ll create 
those kinds of jobs. Yet, as for the kind 
of high-level, 21st century jobs that 
America needs in order to be the leader 
of the world economy in this global environment 
that we’re in, there is not 
one measure that the Republicans have 
introduced that will stimulate the creation 
of those kinds of jobs. 

So what we’re doing, Congressman 
ELLISON, is just creating conditions of 
great suffering so that people will vote 
against President Obama next November. 
The stated goal of my friends on 
the other side of the aisle—their main, 
central goal—is to make sure that 
President Obama is a one-term President. 
They don’t care about how much 
pain they inflict on the American people, 
on the 99 percenters—and 47 percent 
of them are millionaires, so they 
don’t have to worry. It’s just to serve a 
political purpose. 

Mr. ELLISON. The gentleman mentioned 
that the stated goal of the Republicans 
was to make President 
Obama a one-term President. This is 
not just political rhetoric. MITCH 
MCCONNELL—and anybody sitting in 
front of a computer can Google it and 
look it up—said that was his goal, 
which was to make President Obama a 
one-term President. 

I think the goal of a Member of Congress 
ought to be to look after the welfare 
of the American people. I think a 
Member of Congress ought to be trying 
to figure out how to look after the best 
interests of the congressional districts 
that they represent. I think that ought 
to mean jobs, health, safety, education. 

Trying to defeat the President should 
never be anyone’s goal. I can guarantee 
you it was not my goal. Even though I 
did not think that his administration 
was the best administration for America, 
my first goal was not to get rid of 
President Bush. It was never my top 
goal. My goal was to try to promote 
peace and justice, economic opportunity 
and prosperity, not to try and 
defeat somebody else. The fact is that 
the Republicans have neglected the 
economy, and they’ve neglected the 
middle class. It really is too bad. 

So, on this issue of paying for the extension 
of the payroll tax deduction, I 
just want to say that there is $1,000 
that Americans don’t have to pay in 
their paychecks when they get them 
every 2 weeks or every month, which is 
because of the payroll tax cut. If that 
expires, they’ll see 1,000 more bucks 
over the course of a year that they’ll 
have to pay. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Starting 
January 1. 

Mr. ELLISON. Starting January 1, 
it’s going to come out of their checks. 

Now, Democrats have said, Let’s ask 
the most well-to-do Americans—— 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. The top 1 
percent. 

Mr. ELLISON. And they don’t have 
to pay based on their first $1 million; 


H8060 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

it’s just after their first $1 million—to 
toss a little back to the American people 
so that we can extend the payroll 
tax cuts for working class people. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. But Grover 
Norquist doesn’t want them to do it. 

Mr. ELLISON. Grover Norquist said 
no. They signed a pledge. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. They 
signed it 20 years ago. 

Mr. ELLISON. They signed it. They 
signed a pledge, not to the American 
people, but to Grover Norquist. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Who does 

he represent? 

Mr. ELLISON. Do you represent him? 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I don’t 
represent him, and he doesn’t represent 
me or the folks that predominate my 
district. I’ve got a 99er district. 

Mr. ELLISON. I’ve got a 99er district 
as well. 

The thing that really gets me is that, 
if Grover Norquist lived in my district, 
I would feel duty-bound to at least listen 
to him because I listen to everybody 
in my district. But to sign a 
pledge to him to subvert the interests 
of the 99 percent is an outrageous 
thing. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. All the 
while, Congressman ELLISON, pitting 
Americans against each other, trying 
to stoke hatred and anger amongst the 
99 percenters on any issue they can. 

Mr. ELLISON. Right, divide and conquer. 


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. That’s the 
way it is. 

So right now, Congressman ELLISON, 
I feel like I have to say this because 
you’re such a great example of a true 
American patriot, one who lives life in 
accordance with your inner ideals. We 
have the freedom in this country to do 
so, but there are those right here in 
this Congress who would try to turn 
the American people against you and 
people like you because of the religion 
that you have chosen to follow. 

Mr. ELLISON. That’s right. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. They don’t 
have any idea that your dad is a Republican. 


Mr. ELLISON. Yes. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. They don’t 
have any knowledge of how you grew 
up and what kind of values you were 
taught and what kind of family you 
had. They just want to condemn you 
because you are a Muslim. They want 
to make you a threat to America, a 
threat to our military, and make a 
threat of those engaged in the military 
who happen to practice the faith of 
Islam. It plays into this decision to put 
Americans through this suffering so 
that they will then vote against President 
Obama and the Democrats so that 
the Republicans can then throw the 
welcome mat out like they have done 
for the large corporate interests and 
wealthy individuals in order to control 
public policy in America. 

Mr. ELLISON. The gentleman makes 
an excellent point. I mean, let me put 
it like this: 

How are you going to get the 99 percent 
to vote for the exclusive interests 

of the 1 percent? Or a better question: 
How are you going to get 50 percent 
plus one to vote for the interests of the 
1 percent? You’ve got to keep them divided. 
You’ve got to keep them confused. 
You’ve got to keep them asleep. 
You’ve got to keep them disliking each 
other for no legitimate reason. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. So you 
hold hearings on issues that are false 
issues. 

Mr. ELLISON. Yes. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. You create 
controversy where there is none. 

Mr. ELLISON. Right. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. This is a 
game that, certainly, many people see 
is being played, but I wish far more 
people saw and understood what is actually 
taking place in their House of 
Representatives. I believe that it’s one 
reason we have two groups of 99ers— 
the Occupy Wall Street and the Tea 
Party movement, those who are dissatisfied 
with how things are going in 
America. 

Mr. ELLISON. I do hope that we can 
help the people understand that their 
interests lie with each other, right? So 
whether or not you’re a Muslim, Christian, 
Jew, Buddhist, Hindu, Bahai, a 
person who doesn’t practice any faith 
but is just spiritual, an atheist—or 
whatever you may happen to be—the 
fact is we all breathe the same air; we 
all occupy this same small planet; and 
we have to find a way to live here. 
Whether you are black, white, Latino, 
Asian, no matter whether you’re from 
the South or from the North, no matter 
whether you were born in America or 
you came here, no matter whether 
you’re straight or gay, or no matter 
who you may be, you’re an American. 

b 1840 
When you and I stand up in this very 
room every morning and we say the 
Pledge of Allegiance, we, in that 
Pledge of Allegiance, with these very 
simple words, ‘‘and liberty and justice 
for all,’’ all, liberty and justice for all, 
all Americans, I urge Americans to 
look for the common good, the things 
we all share. 
How can we come together around a 
common narrative of a shared reality 
as Americans so we don’t look at each 
other as you’re a this and I’m a that, 
and I don’t like you because of this historical 
thing and all of this kind of 
stuff. Let’s find a way to unite our people; 
because if we can unite our people, 
Congressman JOHNSON, we can stand up 
and advocate for policies that are to 
the best good of the American people. 
The American people will be wide 
awake and clear that our economic interests 
lie with each other, and we will 
not vote a program to give tax cuts to 
millionaires simply because we have 
been convinced that people of a different—
people who pray on a different 
day that we do or pray in a different 
way than we do, or have a different appearance 
than we do are somehow our 
enemy. 
You know, we’ve got to build human 
solidarity. This is what we’ve got to 

do. And the one thing I like about the 
Occupy movement is you go there and 
you see people of all colors, all cultures, 
all faiths. You go there and you 
see people, even people of different income 
groups. 

There was a group that we had at our 
hearing, which we had just a few days 
ago, which there is a videotape on, on 
our Web site, USCongress.org, and they 
were calling themselves the Patriotic 
Millionaires. Now these are people who 
used the American free enterprise system, 
came up with a great idea, sold it, 
people bought it, and they did well in 
the marketplace. 

Now, this is a good thing, but their 
attitude is not, yes, America, you have 
public schools which educated my 
workers, you had publicly funded roads 
which allowed me to drive here, to 
drive there. You have the police department, 
which protects my business. 
You have the military, which protects 
our whole country. 

Yes, America, you’ve done all this 
stuff for me, but all this money is just 
mine, and I’m not giving any to anyone. 
They didn’t say that. They say, 
you know what, to whom much is 
given, much is expected and they don’t 
mind doing their fair share for America. 
That’s the Patriotic Millionaires; 
that’s the spirit that helped this country 
become a great country; and it’s a 
spirit we need today. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I do believe 
that you are 100 percent correct 
on that, and I want to give a shout out 
to those millionaires who are socially 
conscious. There are so many people 
who are afflicted and who are just 
eaten up with greed, and they already 
have more money than they can possibly 
spend in this lifetime; yet they 
have an insatiable quest for more and 
more and more. 

They are the ones who are supporting 
people like Grover Norquist and like 
Dick Armey—— 

Mr. ELLISON. FreedomWorks. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Who is a 
proponent of the Tea Party movement; 
and those are the people, the Koch 
brothers, those kinds of interests that 
benefit from our system of government 
but then, ironically, they would support 
and encourage those who want to 
do away with government. They want 
to strip government of its power to regulate. 
They want to strip government 
of its power to protect and to create 
fairness and prosperity. And it is just 
basic. I don’t care how rich you are, 
but if you’re riddled with envy and 
with the need for more, you know, you 
just can’t be satisfied, you are going to 
be unhappy. 

And the person who is unemployed 
but doing their best to find a job and 
take care of their family and despite 
all obstacles is willing to do with half 
a crumb that they have extended to 
their neighbor because their neighbor 
is in the same shape, we’re all in this 
together. Those are the types of ideals 
that we used to have in this country, 
we used to exemplify. But now it’s this 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8061 

culture of greed and avarice and self-
satisfaction. Reminds me of the old 
days of the Roman Empire. 

Mr. ELLISON. Or even the old days 
of the robber barons, like the 1890s, you 
know, 1900. This was a time when industry 
in America was young, and 
there were no right—labor unions, 
there were no environmental protections 
and people would, if you lost your 
hand on a punch press, you just were 
out. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. So be it. 

Mr. ELLISON. And if you actually 
tried to get a fair wage from your boss, 
you just could be arrested or thrown 
into jail or whatever. And if you got 
sick based on the smog that the smokestack 
was pumping out, then you just 
died young, I guess. 

But then America went through some 
changes; and we said, you know what, 
workers are going to have the right to 
organize. That’s a good thing. Our air 
is going to be clean. Companies are 
going to have to abide by some of our 
environmental regulations. 

And there became an American consensus 
where we said, yeah, you know, 
we’re a mixed economy, which means 
that we have a strong public sector, 
but we have a strong private sector 
too. And the private sector, you be innovative, 
you come up with good products, 
services that people need, and by 
all means we hope you do well, but 
after you do well we need you to toss 
something back—— 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Give back. 

Mr. ELLISON. For the common good. 
And what we have now is we have people 
who say, I don’t care about the 
common good. And here is the 
thing—— 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Every man 
for himself. 

Mr. ELLISON. Every man for himself. 


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Only the 
strong survive. 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair must ask that the Members yield 
and reclaim their time in a more orderly 
fashion so that the court reporters 
are able to make the appropriate 
transitions. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Fair 
enough. 

Mr. ELLISON. Thank you, sir. 

And so we are now at a time, we have 
now approached the time where there 
are some people who become well-to-do 
whose attitude is that they want to 
shrink government to the size you can 
drown it in a bathtub. This is what Mr. 
Norquist has said. That’s a quote from 
him. 

His vision of America, like the Koch 
brothers, they do oil refineries and 
stuff; and you drive by some of these 
plants and they smell awful, and you 
know that nothing good can be coming 
out of those smokestacks, but they 
want a condition in America. Their vision 
is that if a person from the government 
says, you know what, there’s 
a lot of people getting sick around 

here, you can’t just spew that stuff out 
of that smokestack, we’re going to regulate 
that stuff and some of that stuff 
you’re going to pay for the costs and 
the harm that you’ve caused to people 
as you go making money on that factory 
you have. 

They have a vision where that factory 
owner will say, Mr. Government, 
you get out of here. I’m going to call 
your boss. I gave a campaign donation 
to your boss, and we’re going to just 
make you leave us alone. 

And if we can’t get your boss to back 
up off of us, we’re just going to sue you 
back and dump a ton of paperwork on 
you, and you don’t have enough lawyers 
working for your government 
agency to defend the public interest; so 
we’ll just drown you, and we’re just 
going to be able to do whatever we 
want to do. 

This is the kind of condition they 
want to create. They want an environment 
where the government is too 
small to tell them, you cannot pollute 
the air. You cannot abuse people’s civil 
rights. You cannot hurt people’s interests, 
the public interest this way. And 
that’s the kind of condition they are 
creating. 

I yield to the gentleman. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I could not 
have said it better; and I will say, so 
that I don’t repeat what you’ve said, 
that when we do have a strong government, 
then government is there to protect 
the interest of all of the people, 
those who are the so-called job creators, 
who haven’t been creating a lot 
of jobs here lately, by the way. I don’t 
know why they still have that title, because 
all the jobs have been moving 
offshore, out of America and leaving 
these workers here without jobs. 

We’re doing ourselves a disservice by 
cutting government and cutting our 
ability to clean up the mess that has 
been created through decades, now, of 
deregulation. It has caused us to be a 
society where we spend more money on 
health care, but we’re the sickest people 
in the industrialized world, among 
the industrialized nations. 

b 1850 
We’ve got a financial system that 
nearly collapsed because of lack of regulation. 
And the same people who profited 
so mightily back during those win-
ner-take-all days want to keep the win-
ner-take-all days, make the big bonuses, 
the obscene bonuses at year end 
that they’re getting ready to publicize 
now, and they would rather collect 
those bonuses than create jobs for 
Americans to clean up the environment, 
to reregulate Wall Street. They 
want to cut those jobs, so job creation, 
it will actually result in the job creators, 
or the 1 percent, being able to 
experience even more profit. 
People should understand that if you 
help someone else, it comes back to 
you. These are just simple concepts of 
living that we have gotten away from 
as a society. 
Mr. ELLISON. What you’re describing 
is a win-win situation. But some 

people have a psychology of a win-lose. 
They think in order for me to do well, 
you have to do poorly. But the truth 
about the universe we live in and a 
strong economy is that if I do well and 
I’m creating prosperity in the world 
through good products and services, 
and then I give you some of my money 
by hiring you, then you have some 
money and you will bring me value and 
we will see the economy grow and we 
all can be a little more prosperous. But 
some people think, well, if you get 
something, then that means I don’t 
have something, so they just hoard. 
This is a very, very poor strategy to 
pursue. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. If the gentleman 
would yield, what we do when 
we create job growth and when we 
spread the wealth, it means that we’re 
able to pay down that deficit, that debt 
that we have. We are able to clear that 
out. America is certainly not in a crisis 
as far as debt is concerned. We borrow 
money at 2 percent. You can’t get it 
much cheaper than that. And while 
that cheap money is available, we 
should be borrowing that money and 
investing it in our own economy, in our 
infrastructure, in our research and development 
for medical care, health 
care delivery, energy production, our 
education system from the buildings on 
down to the lowest piece of equipment 
that’s in there, the teachers who teach 
our children. We should be investing in 
those areas. We’ll see this economy 
turn around rather quickly, and we’ll 
see that debt disappear quicker than 
most people believe that it will. 

Mr. ELLISON. I just would like to 
say something very important here. 

It’s common for our colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle to say we’re 
broke, we’re broke. They get up and 
say we’re broke all the time. It’s like 
one of their favorite things to say. The 
truth is we’re not broke. America is 
not broke. This is designed to create a 
certain sense of crisis and urgency to 
scare people into favoring a program of 
austerity which they propose. 

But I think it is important to note 
that two-thirds—two-thirds—of American 
corporations don’t pay any taxes 
at all. Two-thirds pay none. And I just 
want to point out to Americans, Bank 
of America doesn’t pay any taxes. They 
got a bailout from the government. 
The American people got a call from 
Bank of America: Oh, my God, we 
bought Merrill Lynch; we bought Countrywide. 
It’s not a good deal. We’re 
going down. Save us, please. Through 
the Congress, which is the people’s 
House, they got their bailout. 

Now, the assumption was that Bank 
of America would then turn around and 
pay the money back and then help people 
with their mortgages and help improve 
the economy. What they actually 
did is they didn’t pay any taxes and 
they laid off 30,000 people. Bank of 
America didn’t pay a single penny of 
Federal taxes. I’ve got more money in 
my pocket right here than they paid in 
taxes. 


H8062 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

Boeing, despite receiving billions of 
dollars from the Federal Government 
in taxpayer giveaways, Boeing didn’t 
pay a dime in U.S. Federal taxes. 

Citigroup. Citigroup deferred income 
tax for a third quarter in 2010, amounting 
to a grand total of zero. At the 
same time, Citigroup has continued to 
pay its staff lavishly. John Havens, 
head of Citigroup’s investment bank, is 
expected to be the bank’s highest paid 
executive for the second year in a row 
with compensation of $9.5 million. 
They paid no taxes at all. 

ExxonMobil, they paid no taxes. In 
fact, I think we give them money. Big 
Oil tax dodgers use offshore subsidiaries 
in the Caribbean to avoid paying 
their fair share. Although ExxonMobil 
paid $15 billion in taxes in 2009, not a 
penny of it went to the American 
Treasury. It went elsewhere. This is 
the same year that the company overtook 
Walmart as a Fortune 500 company. 
Meanwhile, the total compensation 
of ExxonMobil’s CEO is about $29 
million. 

We say we’re broke. What we’re doing 
is we’re not collecting enough revenue 
because we think that corporations are 
job creators. And, of course, they’re 
not creating any jobs, as you pointed 
out. But we’re operating on some 
faulty assumptions. 

General Electric. In 2009, General 
Electric, the world’s largest corporation, 
filed more than 7,000 tax returns 
and still paid nothing to the government 
in taxes. GE managed to do this 
with aid of a rigged Tax Code that essentially 
subsidizes companies for losing 
money and allows them to set up 
tax havens overseas. With the Republicans’ 
aid in Congress whose campaigns 
they finance, they exploit our 
Tax Code to avoid paying their fair 
share. 

And who do Republicans blame? The 
middle class. They say that the middle 
class is the problem. They say tax 
breaks for billionaires, which is the 
GOP plan, tax breaks for huge corporations, 
which is the GOP plan, huge bonuses 
for big CEOs; but who is it who 
our friends in the Republican caucus 
think is responsible for all of the problems? 
Well, it’s public employees. 

I just want to point out something 
very important before I yield to the 
gentleman. 

The Republicans now have said they 
will support a plan to extend the payroll 
taxes by cutting the Federal Government 
workforce 10 percent. And by 
giving—get this, Congressman—a 
means testing for Medicare, food 
stamps, and unemployment insurance 
benefits. That ought to get a lot of 
money. But public employees are who 
they think should bear the brunt of the 
refusal of the corporate elite from paying 
taxes. 

They say that teachers should pay, 
that cops should pay, firefighters 
should pay, job training programs 
should be cut. Small business investment, 
no. Investment in the National 
Institute of Health and Research, we 

should cut back on that. Schools, they 
should have to pay. Clean energy, we 
can’t afford that. That’s what they say. 
Health care, can’t afford that. Infrastructure 
investment; I come from a 
city where I–35, the Interstate 35 bridge 
over the Mississippi River fell into the 
river and 13 Minnesotans died, 100 got 
severe back injuries, all because of deferred, 
delayed maintenance. Infrastructure 
investment is not just a job 
creator; it is a public safety issue. And, 
of course, college affordability. They 
want to cut programs that make it 
more affordable to go to college. 

The brunt and the burden of balancing 
the budget is not and should not 
be on our public employees, our everyday 
heroes, the people who take care of 
our kids, the people who look after our 
younger people, the folks who look 
after us, the police department. Who 
are you going to call? Firefighters. 

I thank the gentleman for allowing 
me to elaborate on this point because I 
want to say that, on the one hand, they 
say we’re broke. We’re not. What we 
are is we don’t ask the wealthiest 
among us to help out. And what they 
offer as a solution is to cut the people 
who give a good quality of life to the 
average Americans—our public employees. 


I yield to the gentleman. 

b 1900 
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Thank 
you. 
Many Americans watched in horror 
as the drama unfolded on the I–35 
bridge, the aftermath of crashing into 
the waves of water below and taking 
out a multitude of cars and taking 
lives and causing people to be injured, 
and also resulting in an economic detriment 
to that area that needed that 
bridge in order to continue to conduct 
business. We can look at it sterilely on 
the TV from a distant location, but we 
should realize that the same thing that 
happened to you guys in Minnesota can 
happen to us in Georgia with our own 
bridges that are in disrepair due to deferred 
maintenance. 
This is something that can happen 
not just in Georgia, not just in Minnesota, 
but all across the land. And it 
doesn’t have to be that way, because as 
President Obama has proposed in the 
American Jobs Act—or as a part of the 
American Jobs Act—there is money—a 
small amount, but any amount is better 
than none—for infrastructure. I 
think it’s $50 billion. That infrastructure, 
in addition to helping with our 
public safety issues—health, safety, 
and well-being of the people—would 
also create jobs. So we’re killing more 
than one bird with one stone by passing 
the American Jobs Act. 
Not one of my friends on the other 
side of the aisle has been able to put 
forth any rationale for not considering 
any part of that Jobs Act. We did, I’ll 
give them credit, pass something last 
week having to do with veterans. They 
just could not find it within their 
hearts to avoid voting for that. But if 

there was some way that they could, 
they would have. 

They are insisting that the tax cuts 
to the working people of this country, 
the payroll tax, they want that to be 
paid for. But nobody said anything last 
year about paying for the extension of 
the Bush tax cuts. 

Mr. ELLISON. Right. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Nobody 
said anything and nobody is saying 
anything because they want those tax 
cuts to become permanent while they 
at the same time would vote to impose 
a balanced budget amendment, which 
really would just simply lock in an unfair 
tax rate or a tax system that is unfair, 
would lock it in and make it much 
more difficult to change it. 

So, Congressman, these are issues 
that I’m pleased to sit here and discuss 
with you. I look forward to further dialogue 
from both people on this side of 
the aisle, along with my friends on the 
other side of the aisle, because when 
it’s all said and done, we’re all in the 
same boat together. 

Mr. ELLISON. I want to say that it’s 
been a real pleasure to spend this last 
hour with you, Congressman JOHNSON. 
We in the Progressive Caucus believe 
in one America—all colors, all cultures, 
all faiths. We believe in promoting 
human solidarity, not making 
Americans fear each other. We believe 
in economic prosperity and justice for 
working and middle class people. We 
believe in environmental sustainability, 
and we absolutely believe in 
peace with our Nation and other nations. 
We are always going to promote 
diplomacy and dialogue and development 
over war. 

We are the Progressive Caucus. I will 
allow the gentleman to offer a final 
word. If I could just say, my name is 
Congressman KEITH ELLISON, the co-
chair of the Progressive Caucus. Look 
us up on the Web. 

The final word will go to Congressman 
JOHNSON. After that, we will yield 
to the Republican side. 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. I just want 
everyone to know that even though I 
stand up and talk about the Grover 
Norquist-Tea Party Republicans, I admire 
the Tea Partiers because they got 
up off of their duffs because they were 
upset about how things were going. 
They were misled in terms of thinking 
that the health care reform was not 
going to be good for them. It’s good for 
them. And they will soon find out— 
they will continue to find out—that 
the things that we have done are good 
for them and their attention will be diverted 
from this President to their 
pocketbook. And so I look forward. I 
admire them for their activism. I love 
them. Don’t take it personally when I 
talk about you being a Dick Armey-
Tea Party Republican of the Grover 
Norquist ilk. 

With that, I will close. I believe that 
my friends on the other side of the 
aisle are ready to delude you with some 
information. 

Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
back the balance of my time. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8063 

GOP DOCTORS CAUCUS: MEDICARE 

SENIORS AND OBAMACARE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
5, 2011, the gentleman from Louisiana 
(Mr. FLEMING) is recognized for 
60 minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader. 
Mr. FLEMING. Thank you, Mr. 
Speaker. 
I come before this House tonight to 
talk about a very important issue—it’s 
been important for years, and it’s 
going to be increasingly important and 
increasingly a part of the debate—and 
that is health care, and particularly 
health care for our seniors. We’ve got 
lots going on. ObamaCare, of course, 
was passed in 2010, and we’re running 
into all sorts of problems. Of course, I 
and my Republican colleagues here tonight 
voted against it. 
I’m joined tonight, by the way, by 
two of my colleagues, Dr. PHIL ROE, an 
obstetrician from the great State of 
Tennessee, and Dr. SCOTT DESJARLAIS, 
who is, like me, a family physician. 
I thought I would just give a brief introduction 
about Medicare and how 
that fits into the budget. I know that 
Dr. ROE is going to talk in more detail 
about that. 
No speaker would be complete without 
a chart, and I have several tonight. 
This is one I think that’s important for 
everybody to understand. This pie 
chart breaks up spending for the Federal 
budget. If you will notice, the vast 
majority of this pie is in what we call 
permanent mandatory or so-called entitlement 
spending and interest. What 
makes up a large part of mandatory 
spending is Social Security, Medicare, 
and Medicaid. The size of this pie, this 
section of the pie, is growing. In fact, if 
you recall, back in the nineties we actually 
balanced the budget. The last 
time we balanced it, I think was in the 
late nineties. It was a lot easier to do 
back then because entitlement spending, 
permanent spending, was not in 
place to the extent that it is today. It 
was growing, but not as big. 
What is the difference between mandatory 
spending and discretionary 
spending, which is the other two pieces 
of this pie? Mandatory means that if 
you qualify for a certain type of service 
or payment, whether you’re on Medicare, 
Medicaid, whether you earned it 
or not, if you qualify for it, the government 
must pay. No matter who shows 
up or how many people show up, the 
government must pay. So, therefore, 
the government cannot per se control 
that cost. 
Discretionary cost, on the other 
hand, is split into two: defense, which 
is around $600 billion to $700 billion a 
year; and nondefense discretionary, 
which is what we run the government 
on. That we can adjust, although we’ve 
not done a good job in controlling this. 
In fact, that’s increased probably 25 
percent just in the last 2 years under 
President Obama. 
But I want to illustrate for you what 
the problem is, and that is that the en


titlement spending, which we don’t 
control, with an aging population and 
the fact that it’s dependent on government 
spending, is growing at a much 
faster rate than our revenues and inflation. 


b 1910 
This is a chart that outlines where 
we are today with Social Security, 
Medicaid and Medicare, the part of entitlement 
spending. Now, let me say, 
first of all, Social Security is down 
here in the purple, and you notice that 
it slants upward and then it flattens 
out. Social Security is not our problem. 
Let me repeat that: Social Security 
is not our problem. 
And people who are on it or will be 
on it, in my opinion, have nothing to 
worry about. Now, we may have to 
tweak it, we may have to adjust it, but 
you’ll notice that the cost really rises 
relatively slowly, and that’s just a 
matter of demographics. And we can 
adjust this, as we have in the past, and 
make this sustainable. There are other 
ways to do it, in terms of allowing Social 
Security recipients to invest some 
of their money and so forth, but that’s 
beyond the scope of discussion tonight. 
The next group in green is Medicaid 
and other health care. You’ll notice it’s 
going up faster. And Medicaid is health 
care for the poor. And then finally in 
red you see Medicare, and you see how 
that explodes and it goes up continuously. 
Medicare alone will completely 
displace all the budgetary spending 
eventually if we don’t bring that under 
control. And that would mean we’d 
have to give up on government itself, 
we’d have to give up on a national defense—
everything—unless we begin to 
control that. 
Now, at the rate things are going, 
Medicare will run out of money, become 
insolvent by 2020. And that is 
straight from the CBO, the Congressional 
Budget Office. Another way to 
look at it is that our spending is now 
equal to 15 percent of the total Federal 
spending is Medicare, blowing out of 
control. What has made this worse is 
ObamaCare actually cut $500 billion, 
that is, half a trillion dollars, out of 
Medicare to use for subsidies for middle 
class health care plans. 
So let me repeat: Medicare is running 
out of money; it’s exploding through 
the roof. And what does ObamaCare do, 
the Members who voted for it, it actually 
cuts money out of it and depletes 
it of money in the future so that it becomes 
insolvent. And here’s where the 
cuts are: $135 billion for Medicare Advantage, 
which is the private health 
care version of Medicare, $112 billion, 
which was taken from hospitals, $39.7 
billion from home health, $14.6 billion 
from nursing homes, and $6.8 billion 
from hospice care. These are very real 
cuts. 
And the only explanation that the 
other side gave us, our Democrat 
friends, is that somehow we’ll cut out 
fraud, waste and abuse. Well, let me 
warn you, any time a politician tells 

you he’s capable of doing that, watch 
out, because I’ve never seen it done and 
I don’t expect to see it done in the future. 
Because, you see, in order to cut 
out the massive fraud, waste and 
abuse, you have to spend even more 
money to find all the bad actors. The 
best way to do away with fraud, waste 
and abuse is to make the system much 
smaller, perhaps even privatize it, and 
make the system accountable rather 
than a Big Government bureaucracy, 
which wastes money, whether we’re 
talking about the Department of Defense 
or Medicare. So that should give 
you kind of a beginning of where we 
are with Medicare. 

Let me just close my opening remarks 
by saying that there’s basically 
two options when it comes to making 
Medicare again solvent and available 
for us in the future. There is a Republican 
plan, which would allow you, if 
you are currently on Medicare or 10 
years from becoming on Medicare, to 
keep Medicare as it is. And it is sustainable, 
as far as the CBO tells us, indefinitely. 


However, we would have to reform 
that for younger adults today who will 
be senior citizens by opening up the insurance 
system, creating a marketplace 
for seniors to buy insurance, and 
then let government help them with 
what we call ‘‘premium support,’’ and 
allowing competition in private care to 
drive the cost down and raise the level 
of service. In fact, what we in Congress 
have today is the very same thing. 

The Democrats, their plan is this: 
goose egg, no plan whatsoever. Under 
their plan—or non-plan—Medicare runs 
out of money in 8 years. And they’ve 
failed to present an idea, much less a 
bill, as we have, that would even solve 
that. Well, that gives you an idea of 
some of our opening discussion. 

First tonight, I want to introduce my 
good friend, PHIL ROE. Dr. PHIL ROE, as 
I said, is an obstetrician. I think he has 
some comments about the financing of 
Medicare and other things as well. 

Mr. ROE of Tennessee. I thank you, 
Dr. FLEMING, and I appreciate you 
hosting this hour tonight and a chance 
for us to discuss in detail the health 
care of this Nation. 

You know, about 4 or 5 years ago I 
made a decision, after 31 years of practice, 
to think about running for Congress. 
And one of the reasons was I 
knew that the health care issue was 
going to be huge in the debate in this 
Nation’s future. And, boy, has that 
turned out to be prophetic. 

Secondly, the thing that I noticed in 
my patients when I practiced, the single 
biggest factor for both Medicare patients 
and my other private patients 
and patients without health insurance, 
was it was too expensive; it cost too 
much money to go see the doctor and 
go to the hospital. If it were more affordable, 
more of us would have health 
care coverage. 

Thirdly, we had a group of patients 
in my practice that couldn’t afford expensive 
health insurance premiums. 


H8064 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

They both worked. Let’s say it was a 
carpenter, perhaps his wife worked at a 
local diner or at a local retailer that 
may not provide health insurance coverage, 
and they make $35,000 or $40,000 
a year, but they could not afford $1,000 
a month for health insurance coverage. 
And, lastly, we have a liability crisis in 
this country. 

The other thing that we’re going to 
get into a little later in this discussion 
today—and this is the absolute sacrosanct 
in health care—is that health 
care decisions—and I’m going to say 
this a couple of times—health care decisions 
should be made between a patient 
and the doctor and that patient’s 
family. It should not be made by an insurance 
company, and it should not be 
made by the Federal Government. And 
we’re going to talk a little bit later 
about the Independent Payment Advisory 
Board that will be making those 
decisions in the future. 

Do we need health care reform in 
America? Absolutely. Do we need this 
type of health care reform? Absolutely 
not. It’s a disaster. And we’ll go into 
that a little later about what my major 
concern is for my patients that I left in 
Johnson City, Tennessee, which was 
how are they going to access a Dr. 
JOHN FLEMING, how are they going to 
access a Dr. SCOTT DESJARLAIS, who 
are family practice primary care physicians. 
And the group I have at home 
that I’m in that I left to come here had 
over 80 primary care providers. How 
are they going to access those? 

Well, let’s go look at where we were 
in the sixties when I was a young college 
student, which was that we had a 
group of people, my grandparents and 
so forth, who would be retiring. And at 
that point in time, because their insurance 
was tied to their employment—if 
they had health insurance coverage— 
there was no way for them to get any 
coverage. They couldn’t buy it; there 
was no way it could be provided for. So 
the Federal Government then got involved 
in this by forming Medicaid and 
Medicare in 1965. 

Our Medicare program in 1965 was a 
$3 billion program. There was no Congressional 
Budget Office at that time, 
but the estimates were that in 25 
years—so in 1990—this program was 
going to be a $15 billion program. The 
actual number was $110 billion. They 
missed it by seven times. And in your 
initial graph right here, if you had 
placed in that graph, Dr. FLEMING, interest 
on the national debt—the one 
you showed with Medicare, Medicaid 
and Social Security—by 2020 or 2022, 
even at current interest rates, it will 
absorb the entire Federal budget. And 
that is why we’re having this discussion 
today, to save Medicare. 

I want to mention just briefly, because 
we’ll kick this off later, in the 
current health care bill there have 
been many changes to Medicare. There 
are increased taxes on medical devices. 
The President said the other day—and 
we’re going to talk about it next week, 
I think, and debate the payroll tax— 

about how he was a tax cutter. Well, I 
would suggest that the President read 
his own health care bill because there 
are massive tax increases in that bill. 

The Independent Payment Advisory 
Board is a bureaucratically appointed 
board, 15 people appointed by the President—
and I don’t want a Republican 
President appointing them and I don’t 
want a Democrat President appointing 
them—approved by the Senate to do 
what? To look at this Medicare, as 
we’ve pointed out, with millions of 
Medicare recipients each day and—as 
Dr. FLEMING pointed out—$500 billion 
to $550 billion less going into the system. 
More people going in, people living 
longer—much longer, which is a 
very good thing—we’re looking at a catastrophe 
for our Medicare program if 
we don’t make some proactive changes 
now. 

b 1920 
And how can you talk about how can 
you fix a system that everybody in this 
Chamber knows is broken—all 435 of us 
know it—if you can’t even discuss it, if 
you’re accused of dumping Grandma off 
a cliff if you even talk about a system 
that—I personally am on Medicare. 
Right now I’m a Medicare recipient, so 
I have a vested interest in seeing that 
this program works for current seniors. 
I was at Furman University Monday 
night speaking to a group of college 
students on health care. It was a privilege 
to be there. It’s a great college. A 
big turnout of young people. And it was 
embarrassing for me to look at those 
young people who are just beginning 
their careers and to think that we’re 
going to not leave them the same access 
to care that I have available to me 
right now. 
If you look at these numbers, Dr. 
FLEMING, you see that it is not sustainable, 
so we have to have this conversation. 
I want to thank you for holding 
this 1-hour. 
I see we have numerous other colleagues 
here tonight. 
Mr. FLEMING. I thank the gentleman. 
We have also been joined, in addition 
to Dr. SCOTT DESJARLAIS, by Dr. PHIL 
GINGREY, also an OB–GYN; Nurse ANN 
MARIE BUERKLE; and NAN HAYWORTH, 
an ophthalmologist from New York. So 
we’ve got a full cadre. If anybody here 
has a headache or, certainly, a heart 
attack, I think they would be very well 
taken care of on the floor of the House. 
With that, I’m going to ask Dr. 
DESJARLAIS to talk to us a little bit. I 
think you have an interest in some of 
this discussion on IPAB and perhaps 
other things, so I’d love to hear what 
you have to say, sir, on that. 
Mr. DESJARLAIS. Thank you, Dr. 
FLEMING. And I, like Dr. ROE, appreciate 
you holding this tonight because 
I think there’s so much fear, frustration, 
and confusion among our Nation’s 
seniors right now about what’s really 
going on. There’s a lot of misinformation 
out there. And I think it’s good 
that we, as health care providers, can 

get together and help clear up some of 
the misinformation because, as Dr. ROE 
said, we should never let the government 
or bureaucrats get between the 
doctor and the patient. That’s a very 
important relationship, and I think 
most all patients would agree. 

How did we get into this mess? 

It’s really kind of mind boggling that 
it has come this far. And as you stated 
earlier, the Democrat plan is doing 
nothing; and we know that the consequences 
of that as, per the CBO, the 
actuary of CMS, Mr. Foster, has said 
Medicare will be bankrupt by 2020. So 
we cannot afford to do nothing. And we 
got into this mess really just by kind 
of the head-in-the-sand approach that 
sometimes occurs here in Washington. 

As Dr. ROE mentioned, Medicare was 
initiated in 1965, and at that time the 
life expectancy for a male was 68. Well, 
thankfully, through good medicine, 
good follow-up, good care, better drugs, 
better techniques, the life expectancy 
has gone up at least by a dozen years. 
But that being said, there really wasn’t 
any planning for that increase. A program 
that was designed for, on average, 
3 years of coverage is now 12 years 
more, and so that’s part of the problem. 


A second big factor is we all knew 
about the baby boomers. Everyone 
knows about them. And the bottom 
line is they have started hitting the 
system at an alarming rate. Ten thousand 
new members every day are entering 
the Medicare system. Again, something 
that we’ve all seen coming, but it 
wasn’t accounted for in terms of cost; 
and Dr. ROE explained how it was underestimated 
greatly what it would 
cost in the first place. 

We know that people pay into Medicare 
because that is going to be their 
health care plan when they retire. 
That’s what was promised to them. So 
we can’t do nothing. 

In the Paul Ryan plan, we laid out 
that those 55 and older won’t have to 
worry about it. We know that we can’t 
do nothing, so those 55 and under will 
have to make changes, as you discussed, 
and I’m sure we’ll discuss more. 

But for those seniors out there that 
are concerned that the Republican plan 
is cutting them off or killing Medicare 
as we know it simply isn’t true. We’re 
trying to preserve, protect, and save it 
for future generations as well as take 
care of them. 

Right now you can take an average 
couple who makes $80,000 a year and 
they pay, over a lifetime, about $109,000 
in Medicare taxes into the program. 
But with health care costs the way 
they are now, the average extraction 
for that same couple is $343,000. 

Mr. FLEMING. If the gentleman will 
yield on that point, I want to be sure 
that that’s not missed, and that may 
be the most important statement made 
tonight. I believe you said that, 
through a lifetime, a Medicare recipient 
will pay in an average of 100,000 or 
so dollars but will take out, on average, 
$300,000. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8065 

So what we really have with Medicare 
is somewhat of a subsidy system 
which does not subsidize according, 
necessarily, to need. My point in saying 
that is: Warren Buffett, today, because 
he’s over 65, qualifies for Medicare, 
and if he gets care, I assume 
would get the same subsidized care, 
subsidized by whom? Taxpayers—middle-
class, working-class people who pay 
the private insurance rates. 

In some ways, Medicare has become 
not just help for the poor and the elderly, 
but just subsidy for people over 65. 
And so we’re going to have to look at: 
Is there a way in the future that we 
can even this out, where we’re not necessarily 
subsidizing for those who are 
capable of paying some of their own 
costs? 

Mr. DESJARLAIS. Right. 

As you say, it’s clear that $1 in for $3 
out doesn’t add up by anybody’s math, 
even Washington’s math. So those factors 
make it very clear that Medicare 
is on an unsustainable path. 

I find it very frustrating that so 
many people are living in fear right 
now with this misinformation. And if 
any of the other Members—I’m sure 
they experienced, as my office did, the 
AARP here, a few weeks ago, had seniors 
calling Congressmen to say, you 
know, Don’t cut our Medicare. They’re 
referring to the SGR cuts, which actually 
pertains to the doc fix. But the 
seniors are confused thinking that 
their Medicare was actually going to be 
cut 30 percent or 29, 27 percent, whatever 
it is. And so when they were calling 
my office, I was glad to tell them, 
Yes, we get it. That actually is a cut to 
physician reimbursement. 

But what it does to seniors, more 
concerning, is that it’s going to limit 
their access to care, because physicians 
right now are in a position where they 
can’t afford the overhead to even keep 
their practices open. 

I think it was good that the AARP 
brought that to their attention, but it 
certainly is great that we have the opportunity 
tonight to clear that up for 
our seniors, that it’s not a cut, a direct 
cut to their Medicare benefits, but it is 
going to directly impact their access to 
care. 

Mr. FLEMING. Absolutely. I thank 
you for the wisdom of your experience, 
Dr. DESJARLAIS. 

I’d like to turn to Dr. GINGREY here. 
He’s joined us and, of course, has conducted 
a number—I can’t even count 
the number that I’ve participated in 
with Dr. GINGREY with respect to Special 
Orders that we’ve had. 

And before doing that, just to follow 
up on what Dr. DESJARLAIS said about 
the 100,000 in, 300,000 back, I can recall 
one day in my own practice sitting 
there and thinking about the three patients 
that I just saw. In Room 1, I saw 
a little lady who’s on Medicare who 
could barely scrape by by the end of 
the month, and she’s on Medicare and 
getting the benefits of Medicare, and 
God bless her, she was getting them. 
And then I thought about the second 

room where there was a gentleman 
who’s a multimillionaire. But you 
know what? My charge to both of them 
and what Medicare did for both of them 
was precisely the same. 

I just couldn’t quite understand that, 
especially when I thought about the 
little mother in Room 3 who’s on private 
insurance, two-paycheck family, 
baby, barely scraping by, paying far 
more in their premiums than someone 
in Medicare and having to raise children. 
It was her insurance premiums 
that were subsidizing both the little 
old lady who was poor and the multimillionaire. 


We’re going to have to do something 
about that to make the economics of 
this system work. It is unsustainable, 
as we know. 

Dr. GINGREY, I would like to ask you 
if you could give us a few words, sage 
wisdom on what your perspective of 
where we are with health care, 
ObamaCare, Medicare, and all the 
other cares that we’re talking about. 

Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. I thank 
the gentleman from Louisiana, Dr. 
FLEMING, for yielding, Mr. Speaker, 
and I thank our leadership for giving 
us this hour to focus in on Medicare 
and ObamaCare, formally, I guess, 
called Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act. We all know it to be the 
Unaffordable Care Act. 

But I think it’s very important, Mr. 
Speaker, and instructive for the folks 
back home, especially our seniors, to 
look at this body and the other Chamber 
as well, Congress as a whole, and 
you look at the Members who are 
health care providers. In this House of 
Representatives, there are 435 Members, 
and 21 of them on the Republican 
side are health care providers: nurses, 
doctors, psychologists, dentists. 

b 1930 
On the Democratic side of the aisle, 
three. You look at the other body, at 
the Senate, and you see four doctors on 
the Republican side. None on the 
Democratic side. 
So as we get into this season, this political 
season, of course the Presidential 
election cycle, Mr. Speaker, 
you know, we all know, that we’re already 
seeing the ads. I think Dr. 
DESJARLAIS referred to this add about 
cutting Medicare 30 percent. Don’t let 
Congress cut Medicare 30 percent. And 
who cares more about seniors. 
And I think those statistics are pretty 
darn telling in regard to who cares 
more about our seniors. Many of us, in 
fact, have practiced so long that we’re 
seniors. Thank God we’ve got good 
health and vigor and enthusiasm for 
giving up what has been a wonderful 
profession, whether we were nurses or 
doctors or whatever, but caring for 
people and the compassion that goes 
with it, to come to Congress, come here 
inside the Beltway and really work on 
behalf of our seniors, work on behalf of 
getting the health care policy right. 
But particularly in regard to our senior 
citizens and the millions that depend 

on Medicare either because of a disability 
or their age. 

So it’s the Republican Party, Mr. 
Speaker. It is the Republican Party 
that is really working on behalf of our 
seniors. 

What did the Democrats do when 
they were in control for that brief period 
of time and Ms. PELOSI was the 
Speaker? They brought the country a 
whole new entitlement program, 
ObamaCare. It had nothing to do with 
seniors. It had nothing to do with the 
poor, who are covered by Medicaid and 
the Children’s Health Insurance Program, 
the SCHIP program. In Georgia 
it’s called PeachCare. They did nothing 
to strengthen Medicare. 

In fact, to pay for this new entitlement 
program, health insurance for all, 
young and healthy people, they gutted 
the Medicare program. 

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from 
Louisiana has a poster before us right 
now, the first slide, if you will, and we 
need every one of us on both sides of 
the aisle to focus on that. And as he 
points to the first bullet point, cutting 
$575 billion from the Medicare program. 
And most of it, in the next bullet, 
is from the Medicare Advantage 
program. And of the 40 to 45 million 
people that are on Medicare, most of 
them, because they’re 65, maybe 10 million 
of them because they’re disabled 
and younger, but so many of them, Mr. 
Speaker, get their health care on the 
Medicare program through something 
called Medicare Advantage. And that’s 
the key word. 

Why is it Advantage? Because it 
gives them comprehensive care, it 
gives them an emphasis on wellness, 
prevention. It’s not just treating disease. 
It gives them a drug benefit even 
before Medicare Part D was enacted by 
a Republican Congress back in 2003. 
And what do the Democrats do? They 
took—what was it, Dr. FLEMING?—$135 
billion out of the Medicare Advantage 
program over a 10-year period. That is 
a 14 percent cut. 

And President Obama says if you like 
what you have you can keep it. Well, 
you can keep it if it’s still available, 
but it won’t be. 

We’re here tonight to let the American 
people know and let our colleagues 
know, and if we have to hit 
them over the head with a 2-by-4 to get 
their attention, we’re going to do it. 
Because they are ruining a great program. 
And we’re health care providers. 
It breaks our heart. We know. We see 
the patient. We are at their bedside in 
sickness and in health when they come 
to our office for routine checkups. 

But we’re here now I guess as policy 
wonks. It’s our colleagues back home— 
we want to keep them in the Medicare 
program, particularly primary care 
doctors seeing those patients. It just 
breaks my heart to see what’s happening. 


I thank the gentleman from Louisiana 
for managing the hour tonight 
on behalf of our leadership to make 
sure that these points are made and 


H8066 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

made very clear to the American people, 
particularly our seniors. 

Mr. FLEMING. I thank the gentleman. 
Dr. GINGREY serves on the 
House Energy and Commerce Committee, 
a committee that has oversight 
and jurisdiction in this area, very important, 
looking at a lot of legislation. 

Next, I want to turn to another of 
our freshmen. We’ve had a wonderful 
cadre of freshmen we appreciate so 
much and a wealth of physicians and 
dentists as well bringing in their years 
of experience, training, and education. 

Next I would like to recognize Dr. 
HAYWORTH, NAN HAYWORTH from New 
York, and would be very interested to 
hear what you have to say this 
evening. 

Ms. HAYWORTH. Thank you, Dr. 
FLEMING, and I add my thanks to our 
distinguished colleague from Georgia 
in gratitude for your hosting and managing 
this session tonight. 

We just had a Medicare telephone 
town hall today with our constituents 
in the beautiful Hudson Valley. We had 
a Medicare administrator with us because 
it’s open enrollment season for 
Medicare throughout the country, I believe, 
up through December 7. So we 
were very grateful to have a Medicare 
administrator with us who helped answer 
some of the questions about some 
of the complexities of Medicare because 
there are a number of them, as 
you might imagine. 

But we did get one question that was 
conspicuous because the gentleman 
asked me, and it’s one that we’ve all 
been asked, as Dr. DESJARLAIS was saying 
not long ago, ‘‘NAN, why are you 
against Medicare?’’ I explained to my 
constituent that gosh, sir, it’s exactly 
the opposite. I want to preserve and 
protect Medicare. I want to make it secure 
and sound. This is very important 
to all of us, to me as a doctor. I had the 
privilege of practicing for 16 years. I’m 
an opthamologist. So many of my patients 
were seniors. I’m the daughter of 
two elderly parents, both of whom rely 
on their Medicare benefits. So the last 
thing that I would want to do, the last 
thing that any of us want to do is to 
harm Medicare. We know how important 
it is. 

More specifically, this nice gentleman 
was asking about our vote on 
the budget this past spring. And as all 
of us here know and as our listeners 
may not be fully aware, we did pass a 
budget in the House of Representatives 
this past April. They may not have 
heard quite as much about it as they 
otherwise should have, if you will, because 
the Senate did not pass a budget. 
They did give ours 47 more votes than 
the one proposed by the President. 
Nonetheless, that was not enough to 
pass a budget so we’ve been waiting 
now, the American public, for at least 
21/2 years for the Senate to pass a budget. 


But in our budget, and Dr. GINGREY 
and Dr. FLEMING have just been referring 
to the $575 billion that was removed 
from Medicare by the massive 

2010 health care overhaul. In our budget, 
we restore those funds to Medicare. 
That is a very, very important fact. 

We all voted here as doctors, as caring 
legislators, as representatives of 
our districts to restore funding to 
Medicare, to strengthen Medicare, not 
to weaken it. That’s the last thing we 
want to do and the last thing we can 
afford to do. 

So I think it’s very important for the 
American people to understand that as 
things stand now, the Medicare benefits 
that people are counting on are 
threatened in ways that they don’t 
have to be. 

So that’s something that people 
should think about, people who cherish 
Medicare, who receive Medicare and 
who have loved ones who depend on 
Medicare; that Medicare is, unfortunately, 
as our colleagues have discussed, 
running out of funds. 

When we think about payroll taxes, 
and we hear a lot about payroll taxes 
in the news these days, payroll taxes 
go to pay for Social Security and for 
Medicare. And the way these programs 
were set up, as we all know but just so 
that everybody understands, they were 
supposed to be, people would contribute 
from their paychecks, and the 
money would be kept by the Federal 
Government and then returned to them 
in their benefits in their senior years, 
when they would need them. 

b 1940 
That could be a very helpful thing; 
but as Dr. DESJARLAIS has pointed out, 
thank the good Lord, people are living 
much, much longer than they were 
when Medicare was first made law. 
So we are facing a challenge because, 
for several decades, contributions to 
Medicare from the payroll taxes were 
built up. People weren’t taking out as 
much in their Medicare benefits as 
they were paying in. The baby boomers 
were not part of the Medicare-eligible 
senior group yet, and now they are. 
Now our seniors are living many years 
longer, thank the good Lord—and I 
wouldn’t trade a day with my parents 
nor with any of our seniors—and our 
health care is wonderful in the United 
States, but it is costly for a number of 
reasons. 
The Medicare funds that were built 
up have now started to be depleted, and 
they’re going to run out, it’s projected, 
anywhere from 2024 to now 2021. What 
we all know is that the estimates are 
probably off the mark. So, to take an 
extra $575 billion out of Medicare is the 
last thing we want to do. 
It’s very important for everybody to 
understand that because, although 
there are workers in this country who 
are contributing their payroll taxes 
now—and those are going to help fund 
Medicare—when those folks become retirees, 
Medicare is going to be very different 
in terms of the funds it has. 
That Medicare trust fund is going 
broke. 
So folks have been thinking about— 
Dr. DESJARLAIS in particular men


tioned it, I think—and may have heard 
three letters, SGR, about the doc fix. 
What is that? What does that mean? 

When patients go to visit their doctors 
and when they receive Medicare, 
as Dr. FLEMING was saying, our Medicare 
patients have a certain fee schedule 
that we are obligated to follow. In 
a lot of cases, depending on their insurance 
and other factors, that fee schedule 
is far less than the fee schedule 
that is set up for our other patients. So 
Medicare pays doctors and other providers, 
and it generally pays less than 
other programs do. We accept that 
when we participate in the Medicare 
program, but to provide Medicare in 
the United States is very expensive. We 
have staff that we have to pay. We 
have overhead. Everybody who has a 
business—and I had my own practice, a 
small business—has rent and supplies 
and staff and insurance to pay. 

One of the unique aspects of America 
in terms of our medical care is that we 
do have what’s called a ‘‘liability system,’’ 
which is very costly, to cover 
lawsuits for malpractice. We should, 
indeed, do everything we can to prevent 
malpractice, but lawsuits in this 
country are very expensive. 

Mr. FLEMING. If the gentlelady 
would yield, I think Dr. GINGREY has 
something he would like to add. 

Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. I thank 
the gentleman from Louisiana for allowing 
me to take up a little time— 
maybe just a minute—to interrupt the 
gentlelady from New York. 

Ms. HAYWORTH. Absolutely. 

Mr. GINGREY of Georgia. She has 
made such great points. 

The thing that I wanted to mention 
to my colleagues is that if we do nothing—
and I think Representative 
HAYWORTH pointed this out—it is really 
not an option. She talked about those 
dates—2024, maybe, but probably closer 
to 2021—when part A becomes fiscally 
insolvent. If we do nothing, then what 
would happen is our seniors under the 
Medicare program would take a 22 percent 
cut in their benefits package, or 
else we would have to raise the payroll 
tax 22 percent. 

I’ll yield back after making this comment 
as I think this is important. 

Medicare was enacted as an amendment 
to the Social Security Act in 
1965. I guess it’s title XVIII. We didn’t 
have all of the information we needed 
back then. As Representative 
HAYWORTH points out, situations were 
different. Back then, people were not 
reliant so much on medication. It was 
more surgery and that sort of thing. 
Now we have Medicare part D. The 
point is that things change; and if we 
hadn’t changed with the times, we 
would still be watching analog television. 
It’s just as clear and as simple 
as that. 

For people to criticize what the Republican 
budget called for in regard to 
making changes to Medicare so that it 
remains solvent for our children and 
grandchildren—and, as Dr. HAYWORTH 
pointed out, to protect it, preserve it 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8067 

and strengthen it for those who are already 
on it—it would not do anything 
in regard to them but would be a 
phased-in change for our children and 
grandchildren so they’ll have it like 
we’ve had it. 

I thank the gentlelady for letting me 
interrupt briefly. 

Mr. FLEMING. Since we are beginning 
to run a little short on time—and 
I want to make sure we get to all of 
our doctors and nurses—I’m going to 
recognize Ms. BUERKLE, a very excellent 
nurse and a wonderful addition to 
our freshman class. 

Ms. BUERKLE. I thank my colleague 
from Louisiana. 

Mr. Speaker, I just want to say what 
an honor it is to be here tonight on the 
floor with my colleagues and the members 
of the Doctors Caucus. 

I do stand here as a nurse and also as 
the daughter of a 90-year-old mother. 
So Medicare for her, I know how she 
depends on the system. 

One of the things we didn’t talk 
about and one of my roles in life was as 
an attorney, as an attorney who represented 
a large teaching hospital. 
About 2 weeks ago, I joined with some 
of my colleagues on the House floor, 
and we talked about what this health 
care law is going to do to our hospitals. 
When our hospitals and our doctors are 
affected by reimbursements, by Medicare 
cuts, that really affects our seniors. 
That reduces their access to care. 

So the first thing I want to do tonight 
as a health care professional and 
as someone who cares deeply—and I 
think that’s the beauty of this tonight, 
of our getting together as people who 
have invested their lives in health care, 
who love people, who care about people. 
This isn’t a Republican or a Democratic 
issue. This is an American issue 
because health care affects all of us. 
This is a group of people who really believes 
that there is a better way, that 
there is a much better way to provide 
access to health care in our country 
without jeopardizing that access and 
without jeopardizing the quality of 
care that our country has to offer. 

So the first thing I want to do tonight 
is reassure our seniors that we 
are talking about protecting and allowing 
the Medicare system to continue 
on. What they need to understand is 
that the health care law has changed 
Medicare forever. Medicare is different 
now than it was before the health care 
law passed. The health care law cuts, 
Mr. Speaker, $500 billion from Medicare. 


I just want to make clear on this 
graph what happens to Medicare reimbursements 
from 2012. You can see 
where we are. It’s a minus, a cut of 9.7 
percent; but here in 2018, the cuts to 
Medicare and the reimbursements to 
our hospitals are down 28.6 percent. 
I’ve had all the hospitals in my district 
come to me, and they were proponents 
of the health care law. They wanted reform. 
They’ve come to me and they’ve 
said, This health care law is going to 
bankrupt us because not only is the 

health care law affecting their Medicare 
reimbursements; it’s affecting 
their disproportionate share reimbursements, 
which keeps many hospitals 
afloat that treat indigent patients and 
that treat Medicaid patients. It also affects 
their GME and their IME, which 
we talked about in the last Special 
Order we had in regards to how we’re 
going to keep our teaching hospitals 
and keep all of our hospitals viable. 

So I just want to leave the message 
tonight with the American people that 
we care about preserving Medicare for 
our seniors. We are not proposing anything 
in our budget proposal that 
would affect our seniors and those back 
to age 55. We want to assure the American 
people that we care so deeply 
about health care and about the quality 
of health care; but we are very concerned 
about this health care law, and 
it’s why we voted to repeal it several 
months ago. One of the first things we 
did when we came to Washington was 
to repeal the health care law because 
we know what it will do to our seniors 
and to our health care providers. 

I thank my colleague for organizing 
our time here tonight on the floor. 
Again, we just want to reassure the 
American people that we care about 
our seniors. We want to make sure 
they have access to quality care, to 
good health care. 

b 1950 
Mr. FLEMING. I thank the gentle-
lady for a very compelling discussion, 
both as a health care provider and 
nurse, but also as a daughter of an elderly 
mother. Those words are very 
heartfelt, and obviously it means as 
much to you that we protect Medicare 
and health care in general as it would 
anybody. There’s no reason why, just 
because you’re a Member of Congress, 
that you would love your mother any 
less, so I think those are important 
words. 
We’re going to move now from a 
nurse to a surgeon. Dr. BENISHEK from 
Michigan has joined us this evening, 
and let’s hear from you, Doctor, and 
see what you have to tell us. 
Mr. BENISHEK. Thank you. Mr. 
Speaker, it’s my pleasure to be here 
this evening to join my colleagues to 
talk about Medicare. 
As you may know, before coming to 
Congress, I served as a general surgeon 
in my district for the last 30 years, and 
many of my patients were on Medicare. 
And as a practicing physician, I often 
expressed to my patients—and my understanding 
wife—about our broken 
health care system here in America. In 
fact, that’s one of the reasons I decided 
to get more involved in the political 
process and actually run for Congress. 
Most Americans don’t understand 
that Medicare will be bankrupt within 
the decade if we don’t do something to 
fix it. I didn’t make this up. The actuary 
for the Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services actually provided 
this number. You know, I think if you 
ask most 65-year-olds just beginning to 

use Medicare, most would be very worried 
to learn that their primary health 
care provider was projected to be bankrupt 
within the decade. 

In fact, according to a recent Social 
Security Trustees report, Medicare 
seniors should expect to see a 22 percent 
benefit cut or workers should expect 
to see a 22 percent hike in their 
payroll taxes unless some action is 
taken. The bottom line is, if action 
isn’t taken today, seniors in the program 
today, not to mention those looking 
to retire in the near future, begin 
to lose their benefits. 

Despite these facts, the other side of 
the aisle has spent the last 6 months 
attacking us, often saying that House 
Republicans’ attempt to protect and 
preserve Medicare was, in fact, destroying 
it. 

Are you kidding me? Accusing myself 
and my fellow physicians in the House 
of wanting to end Medicare? We spent 
our careers caring for Medicare patients 
and are proud now to call them 
constituents. 

The real truth of the matter is that 
President Obama was elected in 2008 
with the promise of hope and change. 
He did accomplish change in America’s 
health care system, but I don’t think 
it’s the kind of change that Americans 
bargained for. 

Mr. Obama’s health care law cut $575 
billion from an already ailing Medicare 
system. The name of Mr. Obama’s 
health care bill is the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act. Mr. 
Speaker, I ask you: What type of patient 
protection cuts $14.6 billion from 
nursing homes, $112 billion from hospitals, 
and $135 billion from Medicare 
Advantage? 

While I’m on the record extensively 
for balancing the budget, I do not believe 
that our health care system 
should be made affordable on the backs 
of America’s seniors. 

If the $500 billion in cuts made by 
ObamaCare were not bad enough, this 
bill did nothing to address the nearly 
28 percent cuts to physician payments 
scheduled for January 1 of 2012. I believe 
in providing access for America’s 
seniors, not taking it away. 

I am happy to announce here tonight 
that I’m working with members of the 
Doctors Caucus, House leadership, and 
Members across the aisle to develop 
legislation that will solve this issue 
once and for all. Mr. Speaker, tonight I 
call on all my colleagues to work together 
to ensure America’s seniors that 
America will continue to be there for 
them in their time of need. 

I have made a pledge to seniors in my 
district that I will not support any 
changes to Medicare benefits for those 
55 years of age or older. It is my belief 
that for those age 54 years of age or 
younger, some reforms will be necessary 
to guarantee that Medicare remains 
solvent in the long term for our 
children and our grandchildren. Mr. 
Speaker, we are here tonight to show 
that, as physicians, we want to preserve 
Medicare for the future. 


H8068 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

I thank Dr. FLEMING for organizing 
this Special Order hour. 

Mr. FLEMING. I thank the gentleman 
from Michigan. 

Again, we’re getting a world of experience 
here tonight, all the way from 
OB–GYNs, ophthalmologists, family 
physicians, nurses, so much in the way 
of words of wisdom, and we have so 
much on our side of the aisle with Republicans, 
as my friend points out, a 
dearth of available physicians, health 
care workers on the other side of the 
aisle. It seems a shame that we were 
completely closed out of the creation 
of and passage of the health care reform 
act, which certainly suggests that 
we need to go back and do it. 

We also are joined tonight by our colleague 
from Arizona, Dr. GOSAR, who is 
a dentist and a very valued member, as 
well, of the conference. I would love to 
hear from you this evening. 

Mr. GOSAR. Dr. FLEMING, thank you 
so very much for organizing this hour 
and being able to have a fireside chat 
with the American public about health 
care and what really is coming about 
and what actually is going on with a 
broken health care system. I also want 
to take the time to educate, to understand—
have the American people understand 
what it is about a vibrant 
economy that actually helps our Medicare 
system. 

Now, I know the holidays are coming 
up and we’re going to be discussing giving 
a continuation of a tax holiday for 
many Americans, about the thousand 
dollars for an individual on their FICA, 
on their withholding tax, and to employers; 
but I also want to take the 
time to explain to the American public 
that there is a cost involved here. And 
part of that cost when a withholding 
tax is taken out goes into Social Security 
and partly to Medicare, and part of 
this is particularly Medicare part A, 
the hospitalization act, which is the 
closest one to insolvency of all parts of 
Medicare. 

Now, we lost 5 years, particularly on 
Medicare part A, the hospitalization 
act, just from the years of 2010. We 
have yet to start looking at the disastrous 
parts of the economy to 2011 to be 
added into the insolvency. But what 
ends up happening is this takes a further 
hit in the numbers and amount of 
money that is actually part of the 
equation for our seniors in Medicare, so 
it’s going to get worse before it gets 
better. And when you couple that with 
this administration taking—I call it 
stealing—over $500 billion away from 
the current Medicare program to build 
another entitlement, that’s just not 
right. 

I came into Congress because I was 
concerned about health care. As a dentist, 
I love seeing a smiling face, because 
a smiling face tells me something 
about vibrancy, about health, 
and participating in the greatest 
things that this life gives us. But it 
also tells me that it has to be a participating 
sport and that what we have to 
have is a patient taking care of and 

being involved actively in the choices 
and decision processes in their health 
care, and that’s what I want to see. 

I’m flabbergasted, to be honest with 
you, that we see a program rectifying 
Medicare, or attempting to, through 
ObamaCare, but then we leave the SGR 
fix or the physician fix completely separate. 
It doesn’t make sense to the average 
person why these aren’t all integrated 
and part of the same equation. 

I also want to remind the American 
people, this is not an easy solution. We 
didn’t get here overnight, because we 
didn’t do our due diligence like we had 
talked about earlier. We didn’t change 
with the times as we grew older. We 
changed our participation and age and 
the variables that we had. 

We also enveloped technology, unbelievable 
things that no one in 1965 
could have even imagined, they could 
have dreamed but couldn’t have actually 
imagined. And that’s what the 
other part is is that we also have to 
look—I come from a very rural district, 
and what is happening back in my neck 
of the woods is the primary care doc 
who was that gatekeeper, they’re no 
longer around. They either are associated 
with a hospital or a federally 
qualified health center—if you can get 
them to see you. And that’s the part 
that also makes me tell the American 
public we have got another problem. 

You were involved in this Joint Committee 
that had Democrats and Republicans, 
12 of them, trying to figure out 
some type of a debt solution for $1.2 
trillion. 

I want to remind the American people 
there’s another consequence in this, 
not only to our military, but to our 
health care providers as well, because 
the sequestration, when it goes 
through, is also going to tap, once 
again, the providers who are no longer 
being able to afford to see patients, and 
our hospitals, particularly those rural 
hospitals that will be going out of business. 
So there won’t be an access to 
care. We won’t have the ability to be a 
part of our own health care because 
there won’t be a health care provider 
out there. 

b 2000 
This is the dynamics that we have to 
look at. This is the equation that is so 
immense. What I have always said is 
start a little bit at a time. Make sure 
that the playing field is level and all of 
the participants are actually there, increasing 
the competition, making sure 
the public health and the private 
health are all in balance, and then 
making sure we have some tort reform. 
We have to have that. That was absolutely 
missing within this health care 
system. That is what we are going to 
have to get back to. And we’re going to 
have to have sunset clauses that we reactivate 
and reevaluate each of the 
process as our aging population gets 
older and as our technology gets better 
and there are new advances in medicine. 
We have to empower people to be 
part of their health care solution and 

empowering them to get back with 
their physician and their health care 
system. That’s what we need to do. 

And that’s the most vibrant aspect 
that I can challenge our seniors with. 
We’re here for Medicare. We’re here to 
change Medicare in the right way. 
We’re here to change it for you 

Mr. FLEMING. I thank the gentleman, 
Dr. GOSAR. I’m just going to 
make a couple of closing comments; 
and in the few moments we have left, 
I’m going to allow some of our other 
physicians to give closing comments. 

One of the important things we have 
learned here tonight is under 
ObamaCare, $575 billion was cut out of 
Medicare. Medicare is going broke, becoming 
insolvent, according to the actuary 
in 8 years. The Republicans 
passed a budget earlier this year that 
would have fixed that for good. And the 
Democrats have yet to even talk about 
it or even acknowledge that it exists. 
But they do know it. So I want to be 
sure that we leave here tonight with an 
understanding of the seriousness of the 
challenges that we have before us. 

Now I would like to recognize Dr. 
ROE for some parting comments. 

Mr. ROE of Tennessee. Dr. FLEMING, 
thank you. I was just looking here, 
over 200 years of experience. What a diverse 
group. We have nursing, dentistry, 
family practice, OB–GYN, surgery, 
and so on. I think one of the 
greatest frustrations I had when I came 
to Congress, and Dr. GINGREY has been 
here longer than you and I have, and 
one of the things that I noticed in the 
health care debate that we had, now 
going on 3 years ago, was this: with 
nine physicians, M.D.s in the U.S. Congress, 
in the 111th Congress, not a single 
one of us was consulted about this 
health care bill. This was done on a 
completely partisan basis. 

I have to kind of chuckle. I have 
never seen a Republican or a Democrat 
heart attack in my life. I have never 
personally operated on a Republican or 
a Democrat cancer in my life. These 
are people problems, as Congresswoman 
BUERKLE said a moment ago. 
These are people problems that affect 
all of us in this country. 

What we wanted to do, as I stated 
when we started, was to make the cost 
of care go down. This is not going to do 
this. Look, this is very simple. When 
we talked about the IPAB, and I think 
we’ll have to use a different time to 
discuss the Independent Payment Advisory 
Board because it is so detailed, 
but just very briefly, this is how this 
works. 

Several of us have pointed out that 
$575 billion was taken out. Three million 
seniors a year going into Medicare, 
reaching Medicare age, and this group, 
this group of bureaucrats up here appointed, 
and I don’t want them appointed 
by a Republican or a Democrat. 
I think Congress ought to be accountable, 
and we ought to be accountable 
to the American people about 
what happens to Medicare, not push it 
off to some bureaucrats that are going 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8069 

to make these decisions, and then we 
say, oh, I’m sorry, we can’t do anything 
when care is denied because when 
you have $575 billion less, and 3 million 
more people added per year, that’s 30-
something million people in 10 years, 
you know what that leads to, Mr. 
FLEMING. 

It leads to a rationing of care. Decreased 
access. And if you have decreased 
access to your primary care 
provider, it means decreased quality of 
your care and the cost is going up. 
That’s what’s going to happen with 
this plan. That’s why it’s imperative, 
not just Medicare, but that we overturn 
the Affordable Care Act because 
it’s not good medicine for patients. 

If we simply had been included in the 
debate, this would not be a plan that 
you had to run through and get rid of 
the 1099 form, the IPAB. It’s a bipartisan 
bill now with 214 bipartisan cosponsors. 
Those folks realize it’s a bad 
idea. I could go on and on and on. 

One of the good parts of the Affordable 
Care Act, let’s point it out, it 
costs more money, but allowing a 26-
year-old to stay on their parents’ 
health care plan, that’s a great idea 
unless your parents are not paying the 
bill. Currently, if a young person, 22 or 
23 years old, gets health care, they’ll 
pay one-sixth what I do. Now what happens 
with this, it has to be a three-to-
one ratio, so their health insurance 
plan costs double. 

We could go on and on about the inconsistencies. 
I think the previous 
Speaker, the current minority leader, 
had it right when she said let’s pass it 
and then find out what’s in it. Well, I 
read it, as most of us physicians did, 
and we found out all of the things that 
were in there that were not good for 
our patients. We’re just now discovering 
it’s going to be more costly for 
businesses out there, and we need to 
have an entire hour on that. 

Mr. FLEMING. I thank the gentleman. 
Before I recognize another 
Member in the last minute or two that 
we have, I would just like to say that 
we are going to be having a lot more of 
these sessions. So we’ve just started. 
We’ve just scratched the surface. We’re 
running out of time, so just to wrap 
things up, we have just barely 
scratched the surface. And these are 
not all the physicians or health care 
workers we have on our side. There are 
others here who could have been here, 
but had some other commitment tonight, 
but will be here next time. 

I would love to talk more on IPAB. 
Even many Democrats see that was a 
very big mistake. It will be one way 
that you can get the door closed on 
your health care and getting the right 
sort of care in the future. 

I thank everyone for being here tonight, 
and I look forward to doing it 
again very soon. God bless you all. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

f 

REPEAL OBAMACARE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
GOWDY). Under the Speaker’s an


nounced policy of January 5, 2011, the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. KING) is recognized 
for 30 minutes. 

Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it’s 
an honor to be recognized to address 
you here on the floor of the United 
States House of Representatives. And I 
want to say that I appreciate the presentation 
that came from just some of 
the great team of doctors that we have 
here, especially on the Republican side 
of the United States Congress. I occasionally 
sit with these learned individuals, 
and I learn a lot from them, and 
I’m grateful that the American people 
have been able to review their presentation 
here tonight, looking at the 
numbers and the dollars that have 
come out of the health care because of 
this great burden of ObamaCare. 

You know, I was thinking of the necessity 
for us to continue to remind 
Americans, ObamaCare is right now 
the law of the land. It is the law of the 
land. And until such time as this Congress 
repeals it or the Supreme Court 
should find it to be completely unconstitutional, 
it will remain the law of 
the land. 

Mr. Speaker, the American people 
need to be reminded that even though 
it’s creeping in on us, and people are 
realizing what ObamaCare is doing, a 
few people at a time, it is an insidious 
creep of a malignant tumor that is metastasizing 
and consuming American 
liberty, and it has to go. 

If we look back at the special elections 
in Ohio 2 or 3 weeks ago, on it 
were several ballot initiatives. The second 
ballot initiative was one that rejected 
the collective bargaining initiative 
that had been initiated by Governor 
Kasich. It was a tough loss for 
Governor Kasich. I think he was right, 
but he lost in the ballot place because 
there was a liberal-heavy, union-heavy 
turnout in the State of Ohio for that 
special election night 2 or 3 weeks ago. 
And by 61 percent, the Kasich-initiated 
ballot initiative that limited collective 
bargaining was shot down by a union-
heavy, liberal-heavy turnout. And they 
spent a lot of money in Ohio to turn 
out that type of a base. 

But in the same ballot, the next item 
down, ballot initiative No. 2 was collective 
bargaining. No. 3 was a constitutional 
amendment to amend the Constitution 
of the State of Ohio to protect 
Ohioans from ObamaCare, to be 
able to reject the individual mandate 
and a whole series, about three different 
points there, to amend the constitution 
to protect Ohioans from the 
ObamaCare mandate. 

b 2010 
And, with a union-heavy, liberal-
heavy turnout in Ohio in which 61 percent 
said ‘‘no’’ to Governor Kasich on 
collective bargaining, sixty-six percent 
of that voting universe voted to protect 
Ohioans from ObamaCare and to 
reject ObamaCare by amending their 
State constitution. That’s a serious 
step, to step forward and amend the 
State constitution. But they did so in 

an effort to reject ObamaCare in the 
State of Ohio. 

Now, Mr. Speaker, that is a resounding 
rejection, that two out of every 
three people that went to the polls rejected 
ObamaCare. I will tell you that 
the American people are poised to do so 
if they’re reminded that it exists out 
there. And there are two things that 
protect the American people, two stops 
along the way that can keep 
ObamaCare from becoming the perpetually 
institutionalized permanent law 
of the land, and that would be when the 
Supreme Court hears the case and 
yields a decision. I would remind you, 
Mr. Speaker, that there is no sever-
ability clause in all 2,600 pages of 
ObamaCare. No severability clause. 

What that means to the lay person is 
this: If a component of ObamaCare is 
found unconstitutional by the Supreme 
Court, then all of ObamaCare is thrown 
out by the Supreme Court. There’s no 
provision that stipulates that if a component 
is unconstitutional, then the 
other components will stand on their 
own. 

That is not just an ignorant omission 
on the part of the people that drafted 
and promoted and voted for 
ObamaCare. They knew it didn’t have a 
severability clause in it. I knew it 
didn’t have a severability clause in it. 
That means every Member of Congress 
had the opportunity to know that it 
didn’t have a severability clause. So 
Congress willfully and intentionally 
passed an ObamaCare piece of legislation 
that didn’t provide that if a part 
of it is found to be unconstitutional, 
the balance of it would be found to be 
constitutional. And the important 
component of that then, Mr. Speaker is 
this. If a part is found unconstitutional, 
it’s all unconstitutional, and all 
2,600 pages of ObamaCare then, by a 
Supreme Court decision, will be rendered 
null and void. 

Yes, Mr. Speaker, there are exceptions 
to those types of decisions by the 
Supreme Court. But generally speaking, 
the court honors and respects a 
willful decision of the legislative 
branch. If that willful decision is that 
there be no severability clause, the Supreme 
Court should understand that 
that wasn’t an accident. It was an unintentional 
omission. It was a willful 
omission because the drafters and the 
proponents of ObamaCare, of which I 
am not one, understood that if a part 
of it is found to be unconstitutional, 
the rest of it collapses anyway of its 
own weight. 

The components of this that prop up 
ObamaCare are cutting that $575 billion 
out of Medicare to fund other 
parts of ObamaCare and then ending 
Medicare Advantage. The individual 
mandate that’s in there, all of this is 
delicately drafted to try to find a way 
to argue that it could be paid for. And 
of course, they discovered that the 
CLASS Act in ObamaCare couldn’t sustain 
itself. The numbers that they had 
advanced to try to pass it aren’t sustainable. 
And so the administration 


H8070 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

has decided they’re not going to move 
forward with the CLASS Act, this piece 
that is, let’s say, retirement home insurance 
funded out of ObamaCare. 
They thought that was going to save 
money; they found out that it was 
going to cost money. So they’ll drop 
that. 

This Congress has passed a couple of 
repeals of pieces of ObamaCare. One of 
them is, out of this House at least, is 
the 1099 squeal form piece of 
ObamaCare. So it’s been taken apart to 
some degree. And the underpinnings of 
ObamaCare are starting to cause it to 
crumble. If the Supreme Court finds 
any part of it unconstitutional, Mr. 
Speaker, they will be well aware that 
no severability clause does not indicate 
an omission by accident on the part of 
Congress; that somehow the Supreme 
Court would re-create on a decision by 
the Supreme Court. They need to know 
it was a willful decision, it was premeditated, 
it was thought out, and the 
decision was no severability clause because 
ObamaCare, if any part of it is 
taken out by it being found unconstitutional—
and I believe there are about 
four areas where it is unconstitutional—
then all parts of ObamaCare 
must go. 

I appreciate the doctors that came to 
the floor tonight to educate the American 
people on the bad components of 
ObamaCare. I would like to encourage, 
Mr. Speaker, the American people to 
know that we are focused on repealing 
100 percent of ObamaCare; ripping it all 
out by the roots and leaving not one 
vestige of it left behind, not one particle, 
not one sign of its DNA. Because 
if we leave any component of 
ObamaCare, it will grow back on us 
like the roots of a bad weed and/or the 
virus, or the malignant tumor, as I 
said. I would ask the doctors this. You 
take out a malignant tumor. If you 
leave part it, it will grow back. I don’t 
want to leave one part of this malignant 
tumor of ObamaCare. I want 
American liberty to thrive. So 
ObamaCare must go. 

Ohioans have rejected it by roughly a 
2–1 margin—66 percent. And Ohio is 
middle America. If you’re going to win 
the Presidency, you must win Ohio. 
President Obama knows that. That’s 
why he visits Ohio as often as he does 
with Air Force One. Or, did we call 
that Fundraiser One. He visits these 
swing States—about 11 swing States— 
with the President of the United States 
flying in and out with Air Force One. 
Yes, just propping up public policy—no, 
not campaigning, according to his 
press secretary. We all know better. 

The criticism that came from the 
Democrats because George Bush 
dropped into some States that were 
swing States on Air Force One now becomes 
the responsibility of Republicans 
to remind the Democrats that 
the next time this happens, you will be 
hypocrites. You actually should retract 
your statements now to prepare yourself 
for the incumbent President that 
will be campaigning around on Air 

Force One, dropping in some of these 
places and advancing policy in 2016. So 
prepare yourselves, gentlemen. Scrub 
it out of your history now. Recant the 
things you said about George W. Bush. 
That way you can defend the President 
today, and then you won’t be such hypocrites 
in 2013, as I predict you will be. 
Sure, I would be happy to yield if you 
had an opinion on that, but I know 
that you know I’m right and accept 
that. 

So, the job of this Congress, the job 
of the American people, is this: To 
maintain people here in the House of 
Representatives who are pledged to, 
committed to, and will pass a repeal of 
ObamaCare again and send it over to 
the United States Senate, where I’m 
asking, Mr. Speaker, for the American 
people to put Senators over there that 
will also vote to repeal ObamaCare, 
pledge to do so, and pledge to drive it 
and push it and use every fiber of their 
being to rip that malignant tumor, 
ObamaCare, out of the Federal Register, 
out of the code, and give people 
back their American liberty. It’s not 
enough to trust the Supreme Court to 
make a constitutional decision and sit 
back on our hands and think that 
somehow the court is going to save us. 

I remember what happened when 
McCain-Feingold passed and then went 
to the President’s desk. That was 
President Bush. And the word that 
came back—and this is rumor and conjecture, 
Mr. Speaker—was that the 
President had decided that he would 
sign the bill because it had such momentum 
when it got there and political 
support when it got there because he 
expected the Supreme Court would find 
McCain-Feingold to be unconstitutional. 


Well, over time, and thanks to Citizens 
United and their lawsuit, parts 
were found to be constitutional—not 
all of it—and the limits that were put 
on free speech within that were freed 
up to the degree that they were litigated 
by Citizens United. I congratulate 
the people that had the vision to 
take it to the Supreme Court and win 
the case there. But no executive officer 
and no Member of this legislature, the 
House or the Senate—and, Mr. Speaker, 
I would send a message also to all 
legislators in the land, everyone in the 
statehouse in all 50 States, be you in 
the State house or the State senate, or 
in Nebraska in the unicameral, never 
vote for a bill because you believe that 
the court will find it to be unconstitutional 
and protect the citizens from a 
bad policy or an unconstitutional policy. 


Mr. Speaker, we take an oath to uphold 
the Constitution of the United 
States. That oath that we take is to 
preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution 
of the United States to the 
words and the language that are in the 
Constitution, not as it would be reinterpreted 
by someone else—a court-to-
be, let’s say, appointed later by an ex-
ecutive-to-be elected later to amend by 
court decision the clear meaning of 
this Constitution. 

I’d give an example of this. In fact, 
the discussion came up today in the 
Judiciary Committee with Congressman 
SENSENBRENNER of Wisconsin’s bill 
that goes back to protect the property 
rights within the States and prohibits 
Federal funds going into certain programs 
of States that violate the intent 
and the literal language of the Fifth 
Amendment of the United States Constitution. 


The famous Kelo decision, Mr. 
Speaker, I recall that unfolding here in 
about 2004 or 2005, when I believe it was 
the city council of New London, Connecticut, 
had decided that they would 
condemn property that was owned privately 
through eminent domain and 
then hand that property over to another 
private interest to be developed 
for a shopping mall or a strip mall because 
they believed that they would 
get a better tax base and get a better 
return than they were from the individual 
that owned the land. 

b 2020 
Now, it directly and clearly violated, 
in my opinion—and I’ll put my opinion 
up against any Supreme Court Justice 
that disagrees with me on this issue in 
particular—the clear language in the 
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution 
that protects our property rights and is 
an essential pillar of American 
exceptionalism, the right to property. 
It says: ‘‘Nor shall private property 
be taken for public use without just 
compensation.’’ ‘‘Nor shall private 
property be taken for public use without 
just compensation.’’ And the effect 
of the Kelo decision by the Supreme 
Court, which I believe was unjustly 
found, is to strike three words out of 
the Fifth Amendment in the Constitution 
of the United States, the words: 
‘‘for public use.’’ So, now the effect, 
after this wrongly held Kelo decision, 
is for the Fifth Amendment to read 
this way: ‘‘Nor shall private property 
be taken without just compensation.’’ 
The ‘‘for public use’’ taken out of the 
Fifth Amendment. 
This Constitution has to mean what 
it was understood to mean at the time 
of ratification. It has to mean what the 
clear words mean in this Constitution. 
It can’t be anything else. We can’t take 
an oath to anything else, and we can’t 
be bound by a later interpretation to 
the Constitution that someone else 
makes unless there is a clarity that’s 
added to the understanding of the plain 
meaning and the plain words and the 
original text of the Constitution and 
the amendments as they were ratified. 
What did they mean when they were 
ratified? Mr. Speaker, we had a supreme 
court in the State of Iowa that 
concluded that they could find rights 
in the State constitution that were ‘‘up 
to this point unimagined.’’ Seriously, 
judges wrapped in black robes—no 
longer any wigs—sitting there saying 
that they had found rights in the constitution 
that were up to this point 
unimagined, and that somehow this 
contractual guarantee that gets passed 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8071 

down through the generations and the 
ages, this contract with American citizenship—
with Iowan citizenship in that 
case—can be breached because they 
have found rights that were up to this 
point unimagined? Heretofore 
unimagined rights. 

What kind of guarantee can there be, 
a court that can discover new rights 
out of their imagination and declare 
that no one else had the imagination to 
discover those rights, but they had the 
vision to discover rights that were in 
this Constitution but not discovered 
before? That says there’s no guarantee 
whatsoever. That says this Constitution 
becomes just only one of two 
things: it becomes an artifact of history 
with no meaning whatsoever, or 
it’s a shield that the Justices can use 
to protect themselves from the criticism 
of the unwashed masses, those 
laypersons that think that they can’t 
read this clear language and understand 
it. 

Mr. Speaker, I’ll say the people I represent 
can read the Constitution. They 
do understand it. They understand 
what it means. And they can make the 
argument with the Supreme Court Justices 
if they were not intimidated. If 
they would just read the language, go 
to the Fifth Amendment, read the language, 
‘‘Nor shall private property be 
taken for public use without just compensation.’’ 


What does ‘‘for public use’’ mean if a 
local government can confiscate private 
property and hand it over to another 
private entity for the purposes of 
private use? That means they have violated 
the Constitution. And the bill before 
the Judiciary Committee today, 
thanks to Chairman SMITH and former 
Chairman JIM SENSENBRENNER, fixes 
that to some degree; but it doesn’t repair 
this Constitution that is so sacred 
to all of us that we take an oath to it. 

And so I’ll continue my oath and 
pledge to this Constitution, Mr. Speaker, 
and continue to make this point 
that we have to have constitutional 
legislation come before this Congress; 
that when someone brings a bill called 
ObamaCare to this floor—2,600 pages— 
that violates so many of the components 
of the constitutional guarantee, 
let alone sapping the vitality from this 
very vigorous American culture that 
we are, the American people rise up. 

They rose up in tens of thousands, 
came to this Capitol and surrounded 
the place, jammed the place so heavily 
that people had trouble getting in and 
getting out. It was a glorious thing to 
see, Mr. Speaker, that the American 
people love their liberty enough that 
they would come from all 50 States to 
jam this Capitol to say to us, do not do 
this. Do not commit this affront to the 
Constitution. Do not usurp American 
liberty. These are God-given rights. 

And who takes them away? This Congress 
that was led by then-Speaker 
PELOSI and HARRY REID in the Senate 
and Barack Obama. The ruling troika 
imposed ObamaCare on us, and the 
American people have rejected it re


soundingly by sending now 89 freshman 
Republicans to the House of Representatives. 
And every one of them pledged 
to repeal ObamaCare. And all but two 
of them—because they haven’t had a 
chance to do so yet, they’re the special 
election two—every single Republican 
in the House and every single Republican 
in the Senate voted to repeal 
ObamaCare. And it was bipartisan. 
Some of the Democrats in the House 
voted to repeal ObamaCare. 

The message has been sent. It’s been 
sent in the State of Ohio; it’s been sent 
by the polling. It goes on and on and 
on: repeal ObamaCare. Now, every 
Presidential candidate on the Republican 
side is running on repealing 
ObamaCare. Every one of them will 
sign the repeal if they’re elected President 
and sworn into office. 

Now, I’d like to see us put the repeal 
of ObamaCare, if we can’t get it passed 
before such time as we elect a new 
President, whom I believe will be inaugurated 
January 20, 2013, if we can’t get 
ObamaCare completely repealed before 
then, and whether or not the Supreme 
Court finds it unconstitutional, honors 
that there is no severability clause, 
and throws all of ObamaCare out, it’s 
still exists within the code and it still 
needs to be repealed. 

And the next Congress, being an honorable 
Congress, needs to send a repeal 
to the next President to be signed. And 
even if the Supreme Court throws it 
out, and even if the current President 
is reelected, there needs to be a repeal 
that goes to second-term President 
Obama’s desk—I perish the thought if 
it unfolds in that fashion. But this 
Congress needs to act and repeal 
ObamaCare thoroughly. 

And I pray that we’re able to put the 
repeal of ObamaCare on the podium, on 
the west portico of the Capitol, January 
20, 2013, having passed the House 
and the Senate, not messaged to the 
White House, messaged to the podium 
on the west portico of the Capitol, mo-
ments—maybe the instant after the 
next President takes the oath of office. 
And at the words ‘‘so help me God,’’ I’d 
like to see the next President sign the 
repeal before he or she shakes the hand 
of Chief Justice Roberts, who will be 
delivering the oath of office to the next 
President of the United States. We 
have constitutional responsibilities 
that we have to live up to. We give an 
oath. ObamaCare violates that Constitution. 


And we have some other things going 
on here in this government that violate 
the spirit of the statutes that the 
American people have pushed through 
here. And one of them is this. It’s the 
advocacy, Mr. Speaker, of this: I’ve got 
a memo in my hand. It’s dated 13 April, 
2011 from the Chief of the Chaplains of 
the Navy to Chaplains and Religious 
Program Specialists. It says this: Go 
ahead, you Navy chaplains. You go 
ahead and conduct same-sex marriage 
services on our military bases anywhere 
where it’s not otherwise illegal. 

That’s the summary of it. It says 
that facility usage is determined by 

local policies. And the Region Legal 
Service Office, the RLSO, should be 
consulted to ensure compliance with 
existing laws and regulations, absent 
some existing statute, however. This is 
a change to previous training that 
stated same-sex marriages are not authorized 
on Federal property. This 
memo says they are now authorized on 
Federal property in direct contradiction 
with the Defense of Marriage Act, 
DOMA, that was passed by this Congress, 
signed into law, clearly is the 
law of the land. 

I mean, we have, apparently, a directive 
from the Commander in Chief of 
the United States military, Barack 
Obama. He surely has to be the one 
that has ordered the Navy, you shall 
send out a memo here to direct the 
chaplains to conduct same-sex marriages 
on the bases unless there is some 
other law that gets in the way. I think 
that this kind of activity is an affront 
to the legislative authority that exists 
by the Constitution within the legislature. 
This is not an executive decision. 
This is a decision of the legislature. 

b 2030 
We passed the Defense of Marriage 
Act. I testified to defend the Defense of 
Marriage Act over in the United States 
Senate a month or so ago. And if the 
Senate were able to pass a repeal of the 
Defense of Marriage Act, it still has to 
come to the House, where I’m confident 
it would not pass. And I don’t think 
it’ll pass the Senate either. 
But in any case, we have a defiance 
of Federal policy set by the Congress, 
signed by the President of the United 
States, from the Office of the Chief of 
the Navy Chaplains, dated 13 April 2011, 
that says, don’t be biased by sexual orientation 
when you’re conducting weddings. 
Go ahead and marry same-sex 
people on these military bases anywhere 
where it doesn’t otherwise violate 
a law. 
That tells me that that goes worldwide, 
bases everywhere. I suppose it’s 
probably not happening on a base in 
Kuwait. They might frown on such a 
thing, but I don’t know, and it’s hard 
to get the facts on this. 
But it’s hard for me also to imagine 
a Marine—a Navy chaplain marrying a 
couple of marines, let’s say a same sex 
couple of marines, whichever sex it 
might be. And this is going on in the 
United States of America and on bases 
around the country, Mr. Speaker, and 
it needs to come to an immediate halt. 
This Congress has acted on this. This 
House has sent the message, and of 
course you have the Senate on the 
other side, run by HARRY REID, one-
third of the former ruling troika that 
now becomes a shield for the President 
of the United States and the person 
who carries the water for the President, 
protects him when he doesn’t 
want to have the confrontation himself. 
They’ve gone the other way. Now 
they’ve stricken the language out of 
the code. If the Senate language passes 
the House, they’ve stricken the language 
that prohibits bestiality in the 


H8072 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

military in their overzealous effort to 
try to advance same-sex marriage 
among our military and use it as a social 
experiment. 

The military’s job is to protect our 
freedom and our liberty. They take an 
oath to the Constitution. They put 
their lives on the line, and we give 
them something that defies the Federal 
law, the Defense of Marriage Act. 

Now, this is bad enough, Mr. Speaker, 
and I’m going to ask to introduce 
this into the RECORD. I know that I 
have the, I guess I’ll say the privilege 
to do that. I will go on to another subject 
matter here that’s—I don’t know if 
it’s more egregious, but it’s plenty bad. 

This is a memo dated September 14, 
2011, Department of the Navy, Walter 
Reed National Military Medical Center 
up on Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda, 
Maryland. I visited up there and visited 
wounded a number of times. And this 
memo is from the Commander of Walter 
Reed National Military Medical 
Center. Subject: Wounded, Ill and Injured 
Partners in Care Guidelines. Policy 
Memo Number 10–015. And there’s a 
bunch of other stamped numbers that 
do reference off of the Web site. And it 
gives some directive about the purpose, 
applicability, official of wounded, ill 
and injured partners visits, how they 
should be conducted, et cetera. 

And policy, according to Patient and 
Family Centered Care, Mr. Speaker, 
children in good health under the age 
of 18 are encouraged to participate. It 
goes on. Here’s how the families should 
conduct themselves in visiting the 
wounded. Here’s the intensive care 
units, how we would do that. 

Here are exceptions, visits before or 
after the established hours, how that 
might work. And then visitation for 
certain kind of patients, et cetera. 
Those visiting the WII in an official capacity 
will make their request 5 days 
in advance, getting to the goal line. 

A number of these provisions, as I 
read through here, the family, the leadership, 
members of the executive—this 
memo directs towards the executive, 
the legislative, and the judiciary 
branches of government? Members of 
the executive, legislative, to include 
professional staff members, judiciary, 
active duty, general, flag and senior executive 
service personnel. It’s telling 
all of us, Members of Congress, the 
President and all of his people, the judiciary, 
the judges, the judiciary 
branch and all of their staff—well, at 
least the legislative staff—what we can 
and can’t do when we visit the wounded 
at Walter Reed, including active duty 
general, flag and senior executive services, 
celebrities, sports personnel, et 
cetera, members of the press. All these 
people that are listed, here’s what you 
can and can’t do. 

Now, I’ll get to my point here on the 
last page, Mr. Speaker, partners in care 
guidelines. That’s all of us bound by 
this memo, supposedly. All family visits 
must be scheduled 5 days in advance, 
as I said. Group size can’t be 
over five. All partners under the age of 

18 must be accompanied by an adult. 
Okay. Fine. I’m good enough with that. 
Can’t take pictures unless the patient 
agrees. Fine with that. 

Due to dietary restrictions and infectious 
disease protocols, the distribution 
of home-produced baked goods to 
the patients, families, and staff members 
is prohibited. You can’t bring 
cookies to the patient. Ooh, that’s 
tough. 

But I wouldn’t be standing here if 
that was the worst thing, Mr. Speaker. 
That’s Item E. I went A, B, C, D, E. 

Here’s Item F, and I’ll read it into 
the RECORD. ‘‘No religious items, (i.e., 
Bibles, reading material and/or artifacts) 
are allowed to be given away or 
used during a visit.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, these military men and 
women who are recovering at Walter 
Reed and Bethesda have given their all 
for America. They’ve given their all for 
America, and they’ve defended and 
taken an oath to the Constitution, and 
here they are. The people that come to 
visit them can’t bring a religious artifact? 
They can’t bring a Bible? They 
can’t use them in the services? A priest 
can’t walk in with the Eucharist and 
offer communion to a patient who 
might be on their deathbed because it’s 
prohibited in this memo from the Department 
of the Navy, the Commander 
of Walter Reed and signed, Mr. Speaker, 
in conclusion, by C.W. Callahan, 
Chief of Staff. 

I would also like to introduce this 
document into the RECORD. 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF 
OF NAVY CHAPLAINS, 

Washington, DC, 
From: Chief of Chaplains (OPNAV N097) 
To: Chaplains and Religious Program Spe


cialists 
Subj: Revision of Chaplain Corps Tier 1 

Training 

1. Chaplain Corps Tier 1 DADT repeal 
training has been revised. The current 
version, dated 11 April 2011, has been posted 
on the Navy and Marine Corps DADT repeal 
websites. This revised version supersedes all 
previous versions and should be reviewed in 
its entirety. 
2. During the initial stages of curriculum 
development, several policy questions were 
raised related to same-sex marriages. Those 
questions were forwarded for legal counsel 
and approval was secured to commence Tier 
1 training while awaiting further guidance. 
Additional legal review concluded that the 
curriculum did require modification of content 
related to same-sex marriage issues as 
found in Vignette 1 and FAQ 5. 
a. Regarding the use of base facilities for 
same-sex marriages, legal counsel has concluded 
that generally speaking, base facility 
use is sexual orientation neutral. If the base 
is located in a state where same-sex marriage 
is legal, then base facilities may normally 
be used to celebrate the marriage. 
This is true for purely religious services 
(e.g., a chaplain blessing a union) or a traditional 
wedding (e.g., a chaplain both blessing 
and conducting the ceremony). Facility 
usage is determined by local policies and the 
Region Legal Service Office (RLSO) should 
be consulted to ensure compliance with existing 
laws and regulations. This is a change 
to previous training that stated same-sex 
marriages are not authorized on federal 
property. 
b. Regarding chaplain participation, consistent 
with the tenets of his or her religious 
organization, a chaplain may officiate a 
same-sex, civil marriage: if it is conducted in 
accordance with the laws of a state which 
permits same-sex marriages or union; and if 
the chaplain is, according to applicable state 
and local laws, otherwise fully certified to 
officiate that state’s marriages. While this is 
not a change, it is a clearer, more concise 
and up to date articulation. Again, consult 
the Region Legal Service Office (RLSO) to 
ensure compliance with existing laws and 
regulations. 
3. The revised Chaplain Corps Tier 1 training 
is posted on the Navy and Marine Corps 
DADT websites. Those websites are found at: 
Navy—http://www.dadtrepeal.navy.mil; Marine 
Corps—https://www.manpower.usmc.mil/ 
portal/page/portal/M—RA—HOME/DADT. All 
prior versions of the curriculum should be 
replaced by the current 11 April 2011 version. 
4. If you have any questions or require additional 
information please contact Chaplain 
Doyle Dunn at (703) 614–4437/ 
doyle@dunne@navy.mil or Chaplain Michael 
Gore at (703) 614–5556/michael.w.gore 
@navy.mil. 
M.L. TIDD, 
Rear Admiral, CHC, U.S. Navy. 

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY, WALTER 
REED NATIONAL MILITARY MEDICAL 
CENTER, 

Bethesda, MD, September 14, 2011. 

From: Commander, Walter Reed National 
Military Medical Center 

Subj: Wounded, Ill, and Injured Partners in 
Care Guidelines 

Ref: (a) NAVMED Policy Memo 10–015 

1. Purpose. To provide guidelines with respect 
to the presence and participation of 
families and other partners in care. This document 
replaces the hospital’s previous visitation 
policies for the Seriously Injured (SI), 
Very Seriously Injured (VSI), and Wounded, 
Ill, and Injured (WII) patients. The Walter 
Reed National Military Medical Center 
(WRNMMC), Bethesda promotes and supports 
a patient and family centered approach to 
care. For the purpose of this instruction, WII 
patients are those active duty individuals 
who are wounded, become ill, or who are injured 
while serving within a combat theater. 
2. Applicability. To provide guidance for 
partners in care as defined by the family of 
SI, VSI, and WII patients at WRNMMC. 
3. Official WII Visits. Other partners in 
care who wish to visit the WII population 
will arrange their visit through the Warrior 
Family Coordination Cell (WFCC) Office of 
Distinguished Visitation utilizing the ‘‘Gold 
Line’’ (855) 875–GOLD (4653) and will arrange 
their visit to fall between the hours of 1000– 
1500 daily unless other arrangements have 
been arranged through the WFCC. It is requested, 
to foster the ‘‘Patient and Family 
Centered Care’’ milieu within the inpatient 
environments, visitors refrain from scheduling 
visits during inpatient quiet hours of 
1300–1400 daily. 
4. Policy. In keeping with the ‘‘Patient and 
Family Centered Care’’ philosophy of 
WRNMMC, families are considered partners 
within the health care team and are encouraged 
to care for their loved ones while maintaining 
good personal health without constraint 
of set visiting hours. 
a. Children. Children in good health under 
the age of 18 are encouraged to participate in 
the recovery process with their wounded 
family member under the direct supervision 
of an adult family member. 
b. Family. WRNMMC uses a broad definition 
of ‘‘family’’ as defined by each patient. 
This concept is supported by the American 
Academy of Family Physicians. 
c. Intensive Care Units. Primary next of 
kin (PNOK) may visit at any time. Other 

December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8073 

partners in care may visit if accompanied by 
the PNOK. 

d. Exceptions. Visits before or after the established 
hours of 1000–1500 and during inpatient 
quiet hours of 1300–1400 for other partners 
in care will be reviewed on a case by 
case basis through the WFCC, attending physician, 
and charge nurse. 
5. SI and VSI Patients. Visitation for the 
SI and VSI patients who are not WII will be 
managed at the discretion of the attending 
physician and respective charge nurse in 
consultation with the patient. Visitors 
should be limited to the immediate family or 
other individuals identified by the patient 
and/or immediate family. These visits will be 
coordinated through the appropriate charge 
nurse prior to being directed to the patient’s 
room. 
6. WII Patients. Those visiting the WII in 
an official capacity will make their request 
utilizing the WFCC ‘‘Gold Line’’ at (855) 875– 
GOLD (4653) and will be limited to the hours 
of 1000–1500 Monday through Friday. To encourage 
patient and family rest, foster a rehabilitative 
environment, and accommodate 
clinical necessities, it is requested visitors 
refrain from scheduling visits during inpatient 
quiet hours of 1300–1400 daily. In general, 
officials visiting the WII population 
outside the established visiting hours will 
need prior approval from the WFCC. To ensure 
an optimal experience, these visits will 
be scheduled five (5) days prior to the 
planned date; impromptu or last minute visits 
to the WII will not be entertained. WII 
visits include the following partners in care: 
a. Family 
b. Leadership of Title 36 Congressionally 
Charted Organizations 
c. Members of the: 
(1) Executive 
(2) Legislative—to include Professional 
Staff Members (PSM) 
(3) Judiciary 
d. Active duty General, Flag, and Senior 
Executive Service (SES). 
e. Celebrities and sports personnel vetted 
through the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA). 
f. Members of the press vetted through the 
Public Affairs Office (PAO). 
g. Other partners in care who represent 
committees who wish to visit the WII from 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars, American Legion, 
Fleet Reserve Association, Marine 
Corps League, Army League, and other similar 
organizations shall be referred to the 
WFCC for WII visits. 
h. Leadership of the Military Coalition and 
National Military Veterans Alliance. 
i. Out of town visitors or visitors who cannot 
come during normal visiting hours shall 
be referred to the WFCC for patient visits. 
j. Partners in care representing verifiable 
501(c)(3) benevolent organizations wishing to 
interact with the WII and or provide goods or 
services will be directed to the WFCC. These 
organizations will not be allowed unfettered 
access to the inpatient environment for the 
purposes of information gathering, solicitation, 
or donation delivery. 
(1) All donations of goods or services to the 
WII will be coordinated through the WFCC 
utilizing approved processes, vetting methods, 
accountability, and delivery. 
7. Exceptions. SI, VSI, and WII patients 
may refuse visitors at any time. 
8. Partners in Care Guidelines 
a. All non-family visits must be scheduled 
five (5) days in advance. 
b. Group size will not exceed five (5). 
c. All partners in care, under the age of 18, 
must be accompanied by an adult. 
d. Photographs may not be taken before, 
during, or after the visit without express 
permission and signed Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act documentation 
provided by the PAO and signed 
by the patient or PNOK if the patient is incapacitated. 
At no time will personal identifiable 
information (PII) or protected health 
information (PHI) be recorded, retransmitted, 
and or utilized in any manner without 
the express written consent of the patient 
or their PNOK if incapacitated. 

e. Due to dietary restrictions and infectious 
disease protocols, the distribution of 
home produced baked goods to the patients, 
families, or staff members is prohibited. 
f. No religious items (i.e. Bibles, reading 
material, and/or artifacts) are allowed to be 
given away or used during a visit. 
9. Release of Patient Information. All patient 
information will be released in accordance 
with reference (a). 
C.W. CALLAHAN, 
Chief of Staff. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

f 

LEAVE OF ABSENCE 

By unanimous consent, leave of absence 
was granted to: 

Mr. DOYLE (at the request of Ms. 
PELOSI) for after 4:30 p.m. today on account 
of medical reasons. 

f 

ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House, 
reported and found truly enrolled a bill 
of the House of the following title, 
which was thereupon signed by the 
Speaker: 

H.R. 394. An act to amend title 28, United 
States Code, to clarify the jurisdiction of the 
Federal courts, and for other purposes. 
f 

ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I 
move that the House do now adjourn. 

The motion was agreed to; accordingly 
(at 8 o’clock and 37 minutes 
p.m.), the House adjourned until tomorrow, 
Friday, December 2, 2011, at 9 
a.m. 

f 

EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, 
ETC. 

Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive 
communications were taken from the 
Speaker’s table and referred as follows: 

4067. A letter from the Congressional Review 
Coordinator, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting the Department’s final 
rule — Importation of French Beans and 
Runner Beans From the Republic of Kenya 
Into the United States [Docket No.: APHIS-
2010-0101] (RIN: 0579-AD39) received November 
4, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); 
to the Committee on Agriculture. 

4068. A letter from the Chief, Planning and 
Regulatory Affairs Branch, Department of 
Agriculture, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule — Applying for Free and Reduced 
Price Meals in the National School Lunch 
Program and School Breakfast Program and 
for Benefits in the Special Milk Program, 
and Technical Amendments [FNS-2007-0023] 
(RIN: 0584-AD54) received November 15, 2011, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 

4069. A letter from the Assistant General 
Counsel for Regulatory Services, Department 
of Education, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule — Final Priorities, Requirements, 
and Selection Criteria; Charter 

Schools Program (CSP) Grants for Replication 
and Expansion of High-Quality Charter 
Schools [CFDA Number: 84.282M] (RIN: 1855-
ZA08) received November 4, 2011, pursuant to 
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce. 

4070. A letter from the Program Manager, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule — 
Head Start Program (RIN: 0970-AC44) received 
November 10, 2011, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Education 
and the Workforce. 
4071. A letter from the Director, Regulations 
Policy and Management Staff, Department 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — Beverages: 
Bottled Water Quality Standard; Establishing 
an Allowable Level for di(2-
ethylhexyl)phthalate [Docket No.: FDA 1993-
N-0259 (Formerly Docket No.: 1993N-0085)] received 
November 4, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. 

4072. A letter from the Chief, Policy and 
Rules Division, Federal Communications 
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s 
final rule — Amendment of Part 15 regarding 
new requirements and measurement guidelines 
for Access Broadband over Power Line 
Systems; Carrier Current Systems, including 
Broadband over Power Line Systems [ET 
Docket No.: 04-37] [ET Docket No.: 03-104] received 
November 15, 2011, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
4073. A letter from the Chief of Staff, Media 
Bureau, Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting the Commission’s final 
rule — Amendment of Section 73.622(i), Post-
Transition Table of DTV Allotments, Television 
Broadcast Stations (Panama City, 
Florida) [MB Docket No.: 11-140] received November 
7, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. 

4074. A letter from the Chief of Staff, Media 
Bureau, Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting the Commission’s final 
rule — Standardized and Enhanced Disclosure 
Requirements for Television Broadcast 
Licensee Public Interest Obligations; Extension 
of the Filing Requirement For Children’s 
Television Programming Report (FCC 
Form 398) [MM Docket No.: 00-168] [MM 
Docket No.: 00-44] received November 7, 2011, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

4075. A letter from the Deputy Chief, CGB, 
Federal Communications Commission, transmitting 
the Commission’s final rule — Anglers 
for Christ Ministries, Inc.; New Beginning 
Ministries; Petitioners Identified in Appendix 
A; Interpretation of Economically 
Burdensome Standard; Amendment of Section 
79.1(f) of the Commission’s Rules; Video 
Programming Accessibility; [CGB-CC-0005] 
[CGB-CC-0007] [CG Docket No.: 06-181] [CG 
Docket No.: 11-175] received November 7, 
2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce. 

4076. A letter from the Chief, Broadband 
Division, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting the Commission’s final rule — 
Implementation of Sections 716 and 717 of 
the Communications Act of 1934, as Enacted 
by the Twenty-First Century Communications 
and Video Accessibility Act of 2010; 
Amendments to the Commission’s Rules Implementing 
Sections 255 and 251(a)(2) of the 
Communications Act of 1934, as Enacted by 
the Telecommunications Act of 1996; Accessible 
Mobile Phone Options for People who 
are Blind, Deaf-Blind, or Have Low Vision 
[CG Docket No.: 10-213] [WT Docket No.: 96-

198] [CG Docket No.: 10-145] received November 
15, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); 
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce. 

H8074 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

4077. A letter from the Chair, Federal Election 
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s 
final rule — Standards of Conduct [Notice 
2011-16] (RIN: 3209-AA15) received November 
7, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on House Administration. 


4078. A letter from the Federal Register Liaison 
Officer, Department of Commerce, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule — 
Fee for Filing a Patent Application Other 
than by the Electronic Filing System [Docket 
No.: PTO-P-2011-0065] (RIN: 0651-AC64) received 
November 15, 2011, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 
4079. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
Legislative Affairs, Department of State, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule — 
Visas: Documentation of Immigrants Under 
the Immigration and Nationality Act, as 
Amended (RIN: 1400-AC86) received November 
15, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 

4080. A letter from the Chief, Trade and 
Commercial Regulations Branch, Department 
of Homeland Security, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — Addition of 
the Cook Islands to the List of Nations Entitled 
to Special Tonnage Tax Exemption received 
November 1, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 

4081. A letter from the Program Manager, 
Department of Homeland Security, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — Medicare 
Program; Part A Premiums for CY 2012 for 
the Uninsured Aged and for Certain Disabled 
Individuals Who Have Exhausted Other Entitlement 
(RIN: 0938-AQ15) received November 
3, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to 
the Committee on Ways and Means. 

4082. A letter from the Chief, Publications 
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue 
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule 

— 2012 Limitations Adjusted As Provided in 
Section 415(d), etc. [Notice 2011-90] received 
November 8, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
4083. A letter from the Chief, Publications 
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue 
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule 

— Branded Prescription Drug Fee; Guidance 
for the 2012 Fee Year [Notice 2011-92] received 
November 8, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
4084. A letter from the Chief, Publications 
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue 
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule 

— Appleton v. Commissioner, 135 T.C. 461 received 
November 8, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
4085. A letter from the Chief, Publications 
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue 
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule 
— Tribal Economic Development Bonds — 
Request for Public Comment on Volume Cap 
Allocation Process and Optional Extension 
of Deadline to Issue Bonds (Announcement 
2011-71) received November 17, 2011, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 

4086. A letter from the Chief, Publications 
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue 
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule 

— Information reporting of mortgage interest 
received in a trade or business from an 
individual (Rev. Proc. 2011-55) received November 
16, 2011, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
4087. A letter from the Chief, Publications 
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue 
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule 

— Graduated Retained Interests [TD 9555] 
(RIN: 1545-BH94) received November 16, 2011, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 

f 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON 
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of 
committees were delivered to the Clerk 
for printing and reference to the proper 
calendar, as follows: 

Mr. MICA: Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. H.R. 2845. A bill to amend 
title 49, United States Code, to provide for 
enhanced safety and environmental protection 
in pipeline transportation, to provide 
for enhanced reliability in the transportation 
of the Nation’s energy products by 
pipeline, and for other purposes; with an 
amendment (Rept. 112–297, Pt. 1). Referred to 
the Committee of the Whole House on the 
state of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. S. 535. An act to authorize 
the Secretary of the Interior to lease 
certain lands within Fort Pulaski National 
Monument, and for other purposes (Rept. 
112–298). Referred to the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 1158. A bill to authorize 
the conveyance of mineral rights by 
the Secretary of the Interior in the State of 
Montana, and for other purposes; with an 
amendment (Rept. 112–299). Referred to the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state 
of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 2172. A bill to facilitate 
the development of wind energy resources 
on Federal lands, with an amendment 
(Rept. 112–300, Pt. 1). Referred to the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state 
of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 2842. A bill to authorize 
all Bureau of Reclamation conduit 
facilities for hydropower development under 
Federal Reclamation Law, and for other purposes; 
with an amendment (Rept. 112–301). 
Referred to the Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 2803. A bill to direct 
the Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 
Regulation and Enforcement, to 
conduct a technological capability assessment, 
survey, and economic feasibility study 
regarding recovery of minerals, other than 
oil and natural gas, from the shallow and 
deep seabed of the United States; with 
amendments (Rept. 112–302). Referred to the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state 
of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 2578. A bill to 
amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act related 
to a segment of the Lower Merced 
River in California, and for other purposes 
(Rept. 112–303). Referred to the Committee of 
the Whole House on the state of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 2360 A bill to 
amend the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
Act to extend the Constitution, laws, and jurisdiction 
of the United States to installations 
and devices attached to the seabed of 
the Outer Continental Shelf for the production 
and support of production of energy 
from sources other than oil and gas, and for 
other purposes (Rept. 112–304). Referred to 
the Committee of the Whole House on the 
state of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 2351. A bill to di


rect the Secretary of the Interior to continue 
stocking fish in certain lakes in the 
North Cascades National Park, Ross Lake 
National Recreation Area, and Lake Chelan 
National Recreation Area (Rept. 112–305). Referred 
to the Committee of the Whole House 
on the state of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 1556. A bill to 
amend the Omnibus Indian Advancement Act 
to allow certain land to be used to generate 
income to provide funding for academic programs, 
and for other purposes (Rept. 112–306). 
Referred to the Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 1461. A bill to authorize 
the Mescalero Apache Tribe to lease 
adjudicated water rights (Rept. 112–307). Referred 
to the Committee of the Whole House 
on the state of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 991. A bill to 
amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
of 1972 to allow importation of polar bear 
trophies taken in sport hunts in Canada before 
the date the polar bear was determined 
to be a threatened species under the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973; with an amendment 
(Rept. 112–308). Referred to the Committee 
of the Whole House on the state of 
the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 850. A bill to facilitate 
a proposed project in the Lower St. 
Croix Wild and Scenic River, and for other 
purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 112–309). 
Referred to the Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union. 

Mr. HASTINGS of Washington: Committee 
on Natural Resources. H.R. 306. A bill to direct 
the Secretary of the Interior to enter 
into an agreement to provide for management 
of the free-roaming wild horses in and 
around the Currituck National Wildlife Refuge; 
with an amendment (Rept. 112–310). Referred 
to the Committee of the Whole House 
on the state of the Union. 

Mr. NUGENT: Committee on Rules. House 
Resolution 479. Resolution providing for consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 10) to amend 
chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, to 
provide that major rules of the executive 
branch shall have no force or effect unless a 
joint resolution of approval is enacted into 
law, and for other purposes (Rept. 112–311). 
Referred to the House Calendar. 

DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE 

Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce 
discharged from further consideration. 

H.R. 2845 referred to the Committee of 
the Whole House on the state of the 
Union, and ordered to be printed. 
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII the 
Committee on Agriculture discharged 
from further consideration. H.R. 2172 
referred to the Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union. 

f 

PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XII, public 
bills and resolutions of the following 
titles were introduced and severally referred, 
as follows: 

By Mr. RAHALL (for himself, Mr. 
DEFAZIO, Mr. COSTELLO, Ms. NORTON, 
Mr. NADLER, Ms. BROWN of Florida, 
Mr. FILNER, Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON 
of Texas, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. BOSWELL, 
Mr. HOLDEN, Mr. CAPUANO, Mr. 
BISHOP of New York, Mr. MICHAUD, 
Mr. CARNAHAN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. 
LIPINSKI, Mr. ALTMIRE, Mr. WALZ of 
Minnesota, and Mr. COHEN): 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8075 

H.R. 3533. A bill to ensure that transportation 
and infrastructure projects carried 
out using Federal financial assistance are 
constructed with steel, iron, and manufactured 
goods that are produced in the United 
States, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
and in addition to the Committee on 
Financial Services, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
By Mr. HANNA (for himself and Mr. 
MULVANEY): 

H.R. 3534. A bill to amend title 31, United 
States Code, to revise requirements related 
to assets pledged by a surety, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. POLIS (for himself and Mrs. 
DAVIS of California): 

H.R. 3535. A bill to improve outcomes for 
students in persistently low-performing 
schools, to create a culture of recognizing, 
rewarding, and replicating educational excellence, 
to authorize school turnaround grants, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for himself, 
Mr. BARLETTA, Mr. FILNER, Mr. 
HOLT, Mr. CARNAHAN, Mr. LEWIS of 
Georgia, Mr. STARK, Mr. ALTMIRE, 
Mr. RANGEL, Ms. PINGREE of Maine, 
and Mr. BISHOP of New York): 

H.R. 3536. A bill to direct the Secretary of 
Transportation to delay certain target compliance 
dates for minimum retroreflectivity 
level standards applicable to traffic signs, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. REHBERG: 

H.R. 3537. A bill to require the Secretary of 
State to act on a permit for the Keystone XL 
pipeline; to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure, and in addition to 
the Committees on Foreign Affairs, Energy 
and Commerce, and Natural Resources, for a 
period to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. MICA (for himself, Mr. GIBBS, 
Mr. COBLE, Mr. JONES, Mr. BARLETTA, 
Mr. GERLACH, Mr. PLATTS, Mr. 
CRAVAACK, Mr. DENHAM, Mr. SESSIONS, 
Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. RENACCI, Mr. 
LUETKEMEYER, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. 
WEST, Mr. WEBSTER, Mr. BROUN of 
Georgia, Mr. DANIEL E. LUNGREN of 
California, Mr. OLSON, Mr. GOWDY, 
Mr. TURNER of Ohio, Mr. YOUNG of 
Alaska, Mr. WESTMORELAND, Mr. 
AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mrs. LUMMIS, 
Ms. FOXX, Mr. COLE, Mr. CRENSHAW, 
Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. FORTENBERRY, 
Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. WALBERG, 
Mr. MACK, Mr. FARENTHOLD, Mr. 
GUINTA, Mr. CHAFFETZ, Mr. JORDAN, 
Ms. BUERKLE, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. ROSS of 
Florida, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. GARY G. 
MILLER of California, Mr. CRAWFORD, 
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mr. HERGER, 
Mr. CHABOT, Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee, 
Mr. RIBBLE, Mr. HULTGREN, 
Mr. HENSARLING, Mr. PRICE of Georgia, 
Mr. WOMACK, Mr. SOUTHERLAND, 
Mr. MILLER of Florida, Mr. WILSON of 
South Carolina, Mr. ROHRABACHER, 
Mr. POE of Texas, Mrs. SCHMIDT, Mr. 
SHUSTER, Mr. HANNA, Mr. PETRI, Mr. 
SULLIVAN, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. HURT, 
Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. YOUNG of Florida, 
Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, Mr. 
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. BROOKS, Mr. 
LANDRY, Mrs. MYRICK, Mr. HUNTER, 
Mr. GINGREY of Georgia, Mr. ROE of 
Tennessee, Mr. STEARNS, Mr. LUCAS, 

Mr. CULBERSON, Mr. LATTA, Mr. GOHMERT, 
Mr. FRANKS of Arizona, Mr. 
FORBES, Mr. BARTLETT, Mr. MCKEON, 
Mr. TIBERI, Mr. SMITH of Texas, Mr. 
LONG, Mr. PEARCE, Mr. HARPER, Ms. 
JENKINS, Mr. WOODALL, Mr. CARTER, 
Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. STUTZMAN, Ms. 
HAYWORTH, Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas, 
Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. SCHOCK, Mr. AUSTRIA, 
Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. SCOTT of 
South Carolina, Mr. AMASH, Mr. 
FLAKE, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. CANSECO, Mr. 
KINZINGER of Illinois, Mr. BACHUS, 
Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. BUCHANAN, 
Mrs. NOEM, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. 
BURTON of Indiana, Mr. CAMPBELL, 
Mr. ROSKAM, Mr. ROKITA, Mr. ISSA, 
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Ms. GRANGER, 
Mr. PENCE, Mrs. ADAMS, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN, Mr. 
BRADY of Texas, Mr. ROONEY, Mr. 
COOPER, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. GARRETT, 
Mr. AKIN, Mr. HUELSKAMP, Mr. 
NEUGEBAUER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. REED, 
Mr. FINCHER, Mr. GRAVES of Georgia, 
Mr. BONNER, Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, 
Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. 
THORNBERRY, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. 
POSEY, Mr. SCALISE, Mr. PITTS, Mrs. 
BIGGERT, Mr. FLEMING, Mr. QUAYLE, 
Mrs. BONO MACK, Mr. CAMP, and Mr. 
BISHOP of Utah): 

H.R. 3538. A bill to amend the Railway 
Labor Act to direct the National Mediation 
Board to apply the same procedures, including 
voting standards, to the direct decertification 
of a labor organization as is applied 
to elections to certify a representative, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. CANSECO: 

H.R. 3539. A bill to terminate the HOPE VI 
program of the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development; to the Committee on 
Financial Services, and in addition to the 
Committee on Appropriations, for a period to 
be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. CARTER (for himself, Mr. 
SMITH of Texas, and Mr. COURTNEY): 

H.R. 3540. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to increase the tax benefits 
for child care assistance for military families; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona (for himself, 
Mr. COLE, Mr. HUELSKAMP, Mr. 
LANKFORD, Mr. FLEMING, Mr. BISHOP 
of Utah, Mr. PENCE, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. 
POSEY, Mr. GRAVES of Georgia, Mr. 
GOHMERT, Mr. HULTGREN, Mr. GARRETT, 
Mrs. SCHMIDT, Mr. BRADY of 
Texas, Mr. FORBES, Mr. WILSON of 
South Carolina, Mr. STUTZMAN, Mrs. 
LUMMIS, Mr. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. 
NEUGEBAUER, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. YODER, 
Mr. WALBERG, Mr. BOREN, Mr. BARTLETT, 
Mr. SMITH of Texas, Mr. LIPINSKI, 
Mrs. BLACK, Mr. BOUSTANY, Mr. 
WESTMORELAND, Mr. PEARCE, Mr. 
HUIZENGA of Michigan, Mr. ROSS of 
Florida, Mr. KINZINGER of Illinois, 
Mr. BURTON of Indiana, Mr. AKIN, Mr. 
FORTENBERRY, Mr. JONES, Mr. DUNCAN 
of Tennessee, Mrs. BLACKBURN, 
Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. 
BROUN of Georgia, Mr. MANZULLO, 
Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. LATTA, Mrs. ROBY, 
Mr. SCALISE, Mr. FARENTHOLD, Mr. 
MCCOTTER, Mr. COBLE, Mr. MILLER of 
Florida, Mr. PETERSON, and Mr. 
SMITH of New Jersey): 

H.R. 3541. A bill to prohibit discrimination 
against the unborn on the basis of sex or 
race, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. GRIJALVA: 

H.R. 3542. A bill to amend section 5001 of 
division B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act of 2009 to extend the temporary 
increase in Medicaid FMAP through 
the end of fiscal year 2012; to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 
By Mr. JOHNSON of Illinois: 

H.R. 3543. A bill to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to provide a national standard 
in accordance with which nonresidents of a 
State may carry concealed firearms in the 
State; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. MCCLINTOCK: 

H.R. 3544. A bill to amend the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act to limit citizens 
suits against publicly owned treatment 
works, to provide for defenses, to extend the 
period of a permit, to limit attorneys fees, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. PITTS (for himself, Mr. PETRI, 
Mr. HINOJOSA, Mr. HOLDEN, and Mr. 
RIBBLE): 

H.R. 3545. A bill to amend title 49, United 
States Code, to allow additional transit systems 
greater flexibility with certain public 
transportation projects; to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. TURNER of Ohio: 

H.R. 3546. A bill to allow an occupancy 
preference for veterans in housing projects 
developed on property of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs with assistance provided 
under the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development program for supportive housing 
for very low-income elderly persons; to the 
Committee on Financial Services. 
By Ms. WATERS (for herself, Mr. CONYERS, 
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Ms. LEE 
of California, Mrs. CHRISTENSEN, Mr. 
FRANK of Massachusetts, Mr. GRIJALVA, 
Mr. TOWNS, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. 
WILSON of Florida, Mr. CLARKE of 
Michigan, Ms. NORTON, Mr. CLAY, Ms. 
BROWN of Florida, Mr. RANGEL, Mr. 
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. HASTINGS of 
Florida, Mr. JACKSON of Illinois, Ms. 
RICHARDSON, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, 
Mrs. MALONEY, Mr. LEWIS of Georgia, 
Mr. CLEAVER, Ms. WOOLSEY, Mr. AL 
GREEN of Texas, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. 
ELLISON, Mr. FILNER, Mr. GUTIERREZ, 
Mr. HONDA, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. 
BLUMENAUER, Mr. WATT, and Mr. 
SERRANO): 

H.R. 3547. A bill to provide for an effective 
HIV/AIDS program in Federal prisons; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut (for 
himself, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, 
Ms. DELAURO, Mr. COURTNEY, and Mr. 
HIMES): 

H. Con. Res. 91. Concurrent resolution recognizing 
the need to improve physical access 
to many United States postal facilities for 
all people in the United States in particular 
disabled citizens; to the Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform, and in addition 
to the Committees on Education and 
the Workforce, the Judiciary, Energy and 
Commerce, and Transportation and Infrastructure, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. CANSECO: 

H. Res. 480. A resolution amending the 
Rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit 
Members, Delegates, the Resident Commissioner, 
and officers and employees of the 
House from buying or selling securities while 
in possession of material, nonpublic information, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Ethics. 
By Mr. CRENSHAW (for himself, Mr. 
JACKSON of Illinois, Mr. KING of New 


H8076 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2011 

York, Mr. ROSS of Florida, Mrs. 
MALONEY, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. 
MORAN, Mr. HOLT, Mr. LATHAM, Mr. 
TIBERI, and Mr. RANGEL): 

H. Res. 481. A resolution supporting the 
goals and ideals of ‘‘Crohn’s and Colitis 
Awareness Week’’; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
By Mr. FLAKE: 

H. Res. 482. A resolution prohibiting the 
use of a Members’ representational allowance 
to obtain advertising on any Internet 
site other than an official site of the Member 
involved; to the Committee on House Administration. 
f 

CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY 
STATEMENT 

Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of 
the Rules of the House of Representatives, 
the following statements are submitted 
regarding the specific powers 
granted to Congress in the Constitution 
to enact the accompanying bill or 
joint resolution. 

By Mr. RAHALL: 

H.R. 3533. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 and Clause 18 
of the Constitution. 

By Mr. HANNA: 

H.R. 3534. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

The Constitutional authority on which 
this bill rests is enumerated in Clause 3 of 
Section 8 of Article I of the United States 
Constitution. 

By Mr. POLIS: 

H.R. 3535. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 1, 

All legislative Powers herein granted shall 
be vested in a Congress of the United States, 
which shall consist of a Senate and House of 
Representatives. 

By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia: 

H.R. 3536. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Sec. 8 cl. 1 and cl. 3. 

By Mr. REHBERG: 

H.R. 3537. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, 8, clause 3, the commerce clause 

By Mr. MICA: 

H.R. 3538. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 of the United States 
Constitution, specifically Clause 18, the necessary 
and proper clause. 

By Mr. CANSECO: 

H.R. 3539. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the United 
States Constitution stipulates that funds 
may not be drawn from the Treasury, unless 
previously authorized by law. This clause 
gives Congress the power to authorize spending 
by law; consequently, Congress has the 
power to repeal authorization for previously 
authorized spending by law. 

By Mr. CARTER: 

H.R. 3540. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress 
shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes, 
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the 
Debts and provide for the common Defence 
and general Welfare of the United States; 

By Mr. FRANKS of Arizona: 

H.R. 3541. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

The Commerce Clause; Section 2 of the 
13th Amendment; Section 5 of the 14th 
Amendment; Art. 1, Section 8. 

By Mr. GRIJALVA: 

H.R. 3542. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

U.S. Const. art. I, §§1 and 8. 
By Mr. JOHNSON of Illinois: 

H.R. 3543. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

14th Amendment, Section II, which states 
that ‘‘No State shall make or enforce any 
law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities 
of citizens of the United States.’’ 

By Mr. MCCLINTOCK: 

H.R. 3544. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I Section 1; and Article I, Section 8, 
Clause 18 of the Constitution of the United 
States of America. 

By Mr. PITTS: 

H.R. 3545. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I Section 8 

By Mr. TURNER of Ohio: 

H.R. 3546. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Clauses 3, 14 and 18 of Section 8 of Article 
I of the Constitution 

By Ms. WATERS: 

H.R. 3547. 

Congress has the power to enact this legis


lation pursuant to the following: 
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the U.S. 
Constitution, 
Article 1, section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S. 
Constitution, and Amendment VIII to the 

U.S. Constitution. 
f 

ADDITIONAL SPONSORS TO PUBLIC 
BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors 
were added to public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 

H.R. 139: Mr. HASTINGS of Florida, Ms. 
SPEIER, and Ms. WOOLSEY. 
H.R. 266: Mr. RANGEL. 
H.R. 267: Mr. RANGEL. 
H.R. 329: Ms. BERKLEY. 
H.R. 333: Mr. MCCOTTER, Ms. DEGETTE, and 
Mr. CARTER. 
H.R. 363: Mr. BLUMENAUER. 
H.R. 389: Mr. HARRIS, Mr. PAULSEN, Mr. 
BROUN of Georgia, Mr. FARENTHOLD, Mr. 
BISHOP of Utah, and Mr. FLORES. 
H.R. 414: Mr. RYAN of Ohio. 
H.R. 420: Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina and 
Mr. BASS of New Hampshire. 
H.R. 452: Mr. SIMPSON and Mr. GARDNER. 
H.R. 512: Mr. KILDEE. 
H.R. 531: Mr. HIMES. 
H.R. 555: Mr. NADLER. 
H.R. 593: Mrs. ROBY and Mr. KLINE. 
H.R. 618: Mr. DEUTCH. 
H.R. 651: Ms. HAHN. 
H.R. 665: Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 718: Mr. MCDERMOTT and Ms. HERRERA 
BEUTLER. 
H.R. 719: Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. 
H.R. 721: Mr. CARDOZA, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. 
HERGER, Mr. GOWDY, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, 
and Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. 
H.R. 808: Ms. HAHN. 
H.R. 835: Mr. COFFMAN of Colorado. 
H.R. 880: Mr. LATHAM. 
H.R. 885: Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. 
H.R. 1063: Ms. SEWELL, Mr. OWENS, Mr. 
MARCHANT, and Mr. MCDERMOTT. 
H.R. 1084: Mr. TOWNS. 
H.R. 1131: Ms. WILSON of Florida. 
H.R. 1133: Mr. MICHAUD. 
H.R. 1148: Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas, Mr. 
TONKO, Mr. LANDRY, Mr. MCINTYRE, Mr. 
YOUNG of Indiana, Mr. GOSAR, Mrs. CAPITO, 
Mr. BECERRA, Mr. SCALISE, and Mr. YOUNG of 
Florida. 
H.R. 1161: Mr. TURNER of Ohio. 
H.R. 1175: Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. HOLDEN, and 
Mrs. MYRICK. 
H.R. 1186: Mr. QUAYLE and Mr. 
FARENTHOLD. 
H.R. 1206: Mr. MICA. 
H.R. 1238: Ms. WILSON of Florida. 
H.R. 1288: Mr. LATHAM. 
H.R. 1327: Mr. SCALISE, Mr. DENHAM, Mr. 
TURNER of New York, Mr. KELLY, Mr. HARPER, 
Mr. POE of Texas, Mr. TURNER of Ohio, 
Mr. ROONEY, Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. BASS of New 
Hampshire, Mr. LATOURETTE, Mr. NUNES, Mr. 
FRELINGHUYSEN, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. PERLMUTTER, 
and Mr. GUINTA. 
H.R. 1370: Mr. LABRADOR and Mr. OLSON. 
H.R. 1418: Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. 
H.R. 1433: Mr. KING of Iowa. 
H.R. 1489: Mr. YARMUTH. 
H.R. 1511: Mr. TONKO and Mr. AMODEI. 
H.R. 1513: Ms. MATSUI, Mr. KING of New 
York, and Mr. BASS of New Hampshire. 
H.R. 1544: Mr. REED. 
H.R. 1568: Mr. CLEAVER. 
H.R. 1580: Mr. TIBERI and Mr. POMPEO. 
H.R. 1614: Mr. POSEY. 
H.R. 1639: Mr. CARTER. 
H.R. 1656: Mr. HOLT. 
H.R. 1704: Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas. 
H.R. 1734: Mr. WOMACK. 
H.R. 1738: Ms. CASTOR of Florida and Ms. 
KAPTUR. 
H.R. 1744: Ms. GRANGER. 
H.R. 1834: Mr. STUTZMAN, Mr. WILSON of 
South Carolina, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Ms. 
GRANGER, Mr. HULTGREN, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. 
COLE, Mr. NEUGEBAUER, Mr. FRANKS of Arizona, 
Mr. WALBERG, Mr. LONG, Mr. BUCSHON, 
Mr. YODER, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. BISHOP of 
Utah, Mr. MCHENRY, and Mr. GIBBS. 
H.R. 1897: Mr. LOEBSACK and Mr. WOMACK. 
H.R. 1903: Mrs. MALONEY. 
H.R. 1905: Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. 
H.R. 2002: Mr. LABRADOR. 
H.R. 2016: Mr. TONKO, Mr. POLIS, Mr. 
OWENS, Mr. COOPER, and Ms. TSONGAS. 
H.R. 2070: Mr. HECK. 
H.R. 2082: Mr. POLIS. 
H.R. 2084: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. 
H.R. 2093: Mr. GRIJALVA. 
H.R. 2121: Mrs. MYRICK. 
H.R. 2127: Ms. MOORE and Ms. CASTOR of 
Florida. 
H.R. 2245: Mr. PASCRELL. 
H.R. 2267: Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. MILLER of 
North Carolina, Mr. TIERNEY, Mr. TONKO, Mr. 
YOUNG of Alaska, Mr. COHEN, Mrs. LUMMIS, 
Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. 
JOHNSON of Illinois, Ms. NORTON, Mr. SMITH 
of Texas, Mr. TIPTON, and Mr. WALZ of Minnesota. 
H.R. 2268: Mr. PITTS. 
H.R. 2272: Ms. ZOE LOFGREN of California. 
H.R. 2284: Mr. DENHAM. 
H.R. 2288: Mr. CLEAVER and Mr. MILLER of 
Florida. 
H.R. 2313: Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr. 
HUELSKAMP, Mr. COLE, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. 
FLEMING, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. PENCE, Mr. 
POSEY, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. GRAVES of Georgia, 
Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. BROOKS, Mr. HULTGREN, 
Mrs. SCHMIDT, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, 
Mr. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. MCCLINTOCK, Mr. 
FRANKS of Arizona, Mr. ROKITA, and Mr. 
WALBERG. 
H.R. 2316: Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. 

December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8077 

H.R. 2335: Mr. GRIMM and Mr. YODER. 
H.R. 2353: Mr. THOMPSON of California. 
H.R. 2426: Mr. ROE of Tennessee. 
H.R. 2461: Mr. WOMACK and Mr. YOUNG of 
Alaska. 
H.R. 2484: Mr. DEFAZIO. 
H.R. 2528: Mr. PITTS. 
H.R. 2555: Mr. MILLER of North Carolina. 
H.R. 2569: Mr. ROSS of Florida. 
H.R. 2634: Mr. MCDERMOTT. 
H.R. 2674: Ms. SLAUGHTER, Mr. CARNAHAN, 
Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. TURNER of Ohio, and Ms. 
SCHAKOWSKY. 
H.R. 2697: Mr. TURNER of Ohio, Mr. FRANKS 
of Arizona, and Mr. BROUN of Georgia. 
H.R. 2705: Mrs. CAPPS, Ms. HAHN, Mr. NADLER, 
and Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. 
H.R. 2717: Mr. LYNCH, Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut, 
Mr. REYES, and Mr. MATHESON. 
H.R. 2738: Mr. SCHIFF. 
H.R. 2741: Mr. TOWNS. 
H.R. 2772: Mr. POSEY. 
H.R. 2866: Mr. SHIMKUS. 
H.R. 2898: Mr. MILLER of Florida and Mr. 
SCALISE. 
H.R. 2913: Mr. FLEMING and Mr. RIBBLE. 
H.R. 2948: Mr. LEVIN. 
H.R. 2966: Ms. MATSUI, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. CASTOR 
of Florida, and Mr. FARR. 
H.R. 2969: Mr. PIERLUISI. 
H.R. 3000: Mr. WOMACK. 
H.R. 3001: Mr. BURTON of Indiana, Mr. 
CHABOT, Mr. BARTON of Texas, Mr. PRICE of 
Georgia, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. CLAY, Mr. 
ISRAEL, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Ms. BROWN of Florida, 
Mr. CROWLEY, Ms. RICHARDSON, Mr. 
DEUTCH, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. CARNAHAN, and Ms. 
KAPTUR. 
H.R. 3015: Mr. CUMMINGS. 
H.R. 3040: Mr. PETERSON. 
H.R. 3042: Mr. GERLACH and Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 3057: Mr. CRAVAACK. 
H.R. 3059: Mr. POE of Texas and Mr. LANCE. 
H.R. 3074: Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas. 
H.R. 3104: Mr. YODER. 
H.R. 3123: Mr. OWENS. 
H.R. 3143: Mr. GARY G. MILLER of California. 
H.R. 3151: Mr. TOWNS and Mr. HASTINGS of 
Florida. 
H.R. 3178: Mr. TIERNEY, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. 
ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Ms. HAHN. 
H.R. 3179: Mrs. NOEM, Mr. DEUTCH, and Ms. 
CHU. 
H.R. 3187: Mr. STEARNS. 
H.R. 3200: Mr. CONYERS and Mr. JOHNSON of 
Illinois. 
H.R. 3210: Mr. KINGSTON. 
H.R. 3236: Mr. PETERSON. 
H.R. 3243: Mr. WOMACK. 
H.R. 3258: Mr. PIERLUISI. 
H.R. 3269: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. CONNOLLY of 
Virginia, Mr. BURTON of Indiana, Mr. GRIFFIN 
of Arkansas, Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms. LINDA T. 
SA´ NCHEZ of California, Mrs. ELLMERS, Mr. 
PAULSEN, Mr. RAHALL, Mr. REED, Mr. WITTMAN, 
Mr. NUGENT, Mr. GIBSON, Mr. MURPHY 
of Pennsylvania, Mr. WEST, Mr. REICHERT, 
Mr. JACKSON of Illinois, and Mr. ROSKAM. 
H.R. 3271: Ms. SPEIER. 
H.R. 3286: Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. BERMAN, and 
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. 
H.R. 3294: Mr. BURGESS. 
H.R. 3326: Mr. BROOKS, Mrs. LUMMIS, and 
Mr. HUIZENGA of Michigan. 
H.R. 3364: Ms. MOORE and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. 
H.R. 3379: Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. WOMACK, and 
Mr. MCKINLEY. 
H.R. 3409: Mr. BARTLETT and Mr. LATOURETTE. 
H.R. 3414: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina 
and Mr. GOHMERT. 
H.R. 3418: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. 
H.R. 3421: Mr. SCHILLING, Mr. PENCE, Mr. 
BUCSHON, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. TURNER of Ohio, 
Mr. MCCOTTER, Mr. BASS of New Hampshire, 
Mr. TIBERI, Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, Mr. LATOURETTE, 
Mr. LANDRY, Mr. LATHAM, Mrs. EMERSON, 
Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. CAPUANO, 
Mr. HUNTER, Mr. LOBIONDO, Mr. CARSON 
of Indiana, Mr. TURNER of New York, Mr. 
SMITH of Nebraska, Mr. JONES, Mr. GARY G. 
MILLER of California, Mr. GRIFFIN of Arkansas, 
Mr. ROSKAM, Mr. LATTA, Mr. SCALISE, 
Ms. BROWN of Florida, Mr. COBLE, Mr. 
PLATTS, Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mrs. BLACKBURN, 
Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mrs. HARTZLER, 
Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. YOUNG of Indiana, Mr. 
SERRANO, Ms. BORDALLO, Mr. MORAN, Mr. 
NUGENT, Mr. HINCHEY, Ms. HAYWORTH, Mr. 
PALLONE, Mr. ROTHMAN of New Jersey, 

Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee, Mr. LANCE, Mr. 
MICA, Mr. BACHUS, Mr. BARTLETT, Mr. AUSTIN 
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. QUAYLE, Mr. SMITH 
of Washington, Mr. UPTON, Mr. MARCHANT, 
and Mr. CAMP. 

H.R. 3423: Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. 
MCCOTTER, Ms. BASS of California, Mr. 
OLVER, and Mr. RIGELL. 
H.R. 3425: Mr. MURPHY of Connecticut. 
H.R. 3437: Mr. BERMAN. 
H.R. 3440: Mr. BOUSTANY, Mr. CANSECO, and 
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. 
H.R. 3470: Mr. RENACCI. 
H.R. 3480: Mr. RIBBLE, Mr. FLORES, Mr. 
ROSS of Florida, and Mr. QUAYLE. 
H.R. 3481: Mr. ROSS of Florida. 
H.R. 3485: Ms. ESHOO and Mr. BLUMENAUER. 
H.R. 3519: Mr. FILNER. 
H.R. 3525: Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. 
H.J. Res. 8: Mr. HIGGINS. 
H.J. Res. 78: Mr. HEINRICH and Mr. GENE 
GREEN of Texas. 
H.J. Res. 88: Mr. JACKSON of Illinois and 
Ms. PINGREE of Maine. 
H.J. Res. 91: Mr. COOPER, Mr. LANDRY, and 
Mr. SHUSTER. 
H. Con. Res. 85: Ms. FUDGE, Mr. DAVIS of Illinois, 
Mr. INSLEE, and Mr. CAPUANO. 
H. Con. Res. 87: Mr. KISSELL. 
H. Res. 462: Mr. HULTGREN. 
H. Res. 475: Mrs. BLACK, Mr. BROUN of 
Georgia, Mr. GOWDY, Mr. BURTON of Indiana, 
Mr. WALBERG, and Mr. GUTHRIE. 
H. Res. 476: Mr. MCINTYRE. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 112th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 157 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2011 No. 183 

The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Honorable JEFF 
MERKLEY, a Senator from the State of 
Oregon. 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of


fered the following prayer: 

Let us pray. 

O God, our Father, we look to You 
this day for help. Without Your help 
our Senators can see the ideal but cannot 
reach it; they can know the right 
but cannot do it; they can seek the 
truth but cannot fully find it; they can 
recognize their duty but cannot perform 
it. Empowered by Your might, 
help them to reach beyond guessing to 
knowing and beyond doubting to certainty 
regarding Your purposes. 

We pray in Your loving Name. Amen. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The Honorable JEFF MERKLEY led the 
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

APPOINTMENT OF ACTING 

PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will please read a communication 
to the Senate from the President pro 
tempore (Mr. INOUYE). 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
the following letter: 

U.S. SENATE, 
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE, 
Washington, DC, December 1, 2011. 
To the Senate: 

Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3, 
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby 
appoint the Honorable JEFF MERKLEY, a Senator 
from the State of Oregon, to perform 
the duties of the Chair. 

DANIEL K. INOUYE, 

President pro tempore. 

Mr. MERKLEY thereupon assumed 
the chair as Acting President pro tempore. 


Senate 

RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY 
LEADER 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The majority leader is recognized. 


f 

SCHEDULE 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, following 
leader remarks the Senate will be in 
morning business until 11 a.m. Following 
that morning business, the Senate 
will resume consideration of the 
Defense Department authorization bill. 
This will be postcloture debate. We expect 
to complete action on the Defense 
bill today. We will give everyone as 
much notice as we can when we have 
votes coming. 

Additionally, yesterday I filed cloture 
on a motion to proceed to S. 1917, 
a middle-class tax cut. If no agreement 
is reached, this vote will be tomorrow 
morning. 

f 

MEASURES PLACED ON THE CALENDAR—
S.J. RES. 30, S.J. RES. 31, 

S.J. RES. 32, S. 1930, S. 1931, S. 1932 
EN BLOC 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, there are 
six measures at the desk due for a second 
reading. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will read the measures 
by title for the second time en bloc. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 30) extending 
the cooling-off period under section 10 of the 
Railway Labor Act with respect to the dispute 
referred to in Executive Order No. 13586 
of October 6, 2011. 

A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 31) applying 
certain conditions to the dispute referred to 
in Executive Order 13586 of October 6, 2011, 
between the enumerated freight rail carriers, 
common carriers by rail in interstate commerce, 
and certain of their employees represented 
by labor organizations that have 
not agreed to extend the cooling-off period 
under section 10 of the Railway Labor Act 
beyond 12:01 a.m. on December 6, 2011. 

A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 32) to provide 
for the resolution of the outstanding issues 
in the current railway labor-management 
dispute. 

A bill (S. 1930) to prohibit earmarks. 

A bill (S. 1931) to provide civilian payroll 
tax relief, to reduce the Federal budget deficit, 
and for other purposes. 

A bill (S. 1932) to require the Secretary of 
State to act on a permit for the Keystone XL 
Pipeline. 

Mr. REID. I object to any further 
proceedings in regard to these matters. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Objection having been heard, the 
measures will be placed on the calendar. 


f 

PAYROLL TAX CUTS 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, yesterday 
on the Senate floor my friend the Republican 
leader said he supports an extension 
of the payroll tax cut that had 
been enacted last year. There has been 
an extreme change of heart here. On 
the Sunday shows the assistant leader, 
my friend, the junior Senator from Arizona, 
said Sunday: Not a chance they 
would work to extend this payroll tax 
cut. Then, as late as Tuesday, my 
friend the Republican leader said it 
would not ‘‘do a thing to help the economy.’’ 
Obviously there has been a 
change of heart since then by the leaders 
of the Senate Republicans. 
But I noted yesterday that my friend 
was very careful to say only that he 
supports existing cuts, not that he supports 
our plan to cut taxes for 160 million 
workers in every business in the 
country. 
Last night I found out why. I was disappointed 
to see the Republicans’ alternate 
proposal was actually a back-
door route to protect the very rich 
while shortchanging the middle class 
and small businesses. Should we be surprised 
at this? That is what has been 
going on this past year. Our proposal 
would provide relief for American families 
and extend existing tax cuts to 
benefit businesses. The Republican proposal 
rejects this new tax relief and 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

.
S8079 


S8080 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

doesn’t provide a penny of additional 
tax cuts for working families and it 
does nothing for small businesses—the 
job creators the Republicans claim to 
care so much about. 

They seem to think our plan to put 
$1,500 back into the pocket of every 
American, with rare exception, and 
give small businesses the boost they 
need to hire new employees goes too 
far. They are willing to fight for ever 
deeper tax cuts for the wealthy, but 
when it comes to the middle class, Republicans 
here in the Senate—not Republicans 
generally, but Republicans 
here in the Senate—believe the status 
quo is good enough for struggling families. 
The Republican plan goes directly 
against the budget agreement we 
reached in the summer, the so-called 
Budget Deficit Reduction Act, where 
we raised the debt ceiling and those 
things we worked on. It took 3 months. 
Their plan goes directly against that 
plan that we made, which is now the 
law of this country. While Democrats 
have been working tirelessly to create 
new jobs, the Republican plan goes in 
precisely the opposite direction. Instead 
of creating jobs, it would cost 
jobs. The report is out today that during 
the month of October there were 
206,000 private sector jobs created. 
Under their plan, the Republicans’ 
plan, many more middle-class families 
around the country would lose their 
jobs. That includes Americans dedicated 
to public service, hard-working 
people committed to keeping our 
streets safe—for example, an FBI 
agent, Drug Enforcement officer, food 
safety workers, highway construction 
workers. They want to devastate those 
folks. That is how they want to pay for 
this tax cut. It is not anything that is 
going to help the economy. It hurts the 
economy. 

They are going after jobs that we 
need so desperately. Do the Republicans 
believe—I guess so, because that 
is what their legislation is all about— 
that the way to revive the economy is 
to lay off more FBI agents or fire more 
Border Patrol officers? These cuts will 
not revive the economy, they will only 
slow it down and cost more jobs. But, 
remember, the role of the Republicans 
here in the Senate is to defeat Barack 
Obama. It doesn’t matter what it does 
to middle-class families, obviously. 

While targeting the middle class, Republicans 
propose to do nothing to cut 
back on excessive subsidies for many 
large corporations that benefit from 
government contracts. This is almost 
hard to comprehend. The Republicans 
started it, and it caught fire during the 
Republican control of the Presidency. 
There are more than 5 million government 
contractors. The Republicans 
propose to do nothing to cut back on 
excessive subsidies for many of these 
large corporations that benefit from 
government contracts. Employees at 
some of these taxpayer-supported corporations 
are being paid more than 
$700,000 a year while many public servants 
struggle to make ends meet. The 

Republicans want to whack these people 
who work to keep us safe in many 
different ways while they let these people 
go untouched. 

The Republicans are uninterested in 
going after these high-income earners. 
As usual, the only real target of this 
Republican meat axe is the middle 
class. It is wrong. Americans believe, 
across the country, that the middle 
class is hurting. I have said—I will say 
it again—the only people in America 
who believe that the richest of the rich 
should not contribute a little bit to 
help our economy are the Senate Republicans. 
The Republicans outside 
this body do not feel that way. America’s 
middle class has been hurting for 
a long time. They are the people who 
are struggling. They are the ones who 
need help, not these multimillionaires, 
and not large, profitable government 
contractors. 

The Republican proposal is unacceptable. 
It will not pass the Senate. We 
can do better and we must do better. 

Would the Chair announce the business 
of the day? 

f 

RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
leadership time is reserved. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, the 
Senate will now be in a period of morning 
business until 11 a.m., with Senators 
permitted to speak therein for up 
to 10 minutes each, with the time 
equally divided and controlled between 
the two leaders or their designees, the 
majority controlling the first half and 
the Republicans controlling the final 
half. 

The Senator from Washington is recognized. 


f 

MIDDLE-CLASS TAX CUT 

Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come 
to the floor this morning to urge my 
colleagues to support the middle-class 
tax cut bill that would extend and expand 
the payroll tax relief for our families 
and small business owners. This 
legislation is straightforward. It should 
not be controversial. At a time when so 
many of our hard-working middle-class 
families continue to struggle in this 
very tough economy, this bill would 
cut their Social Security payroll tax in 
half, from 6.2 percent to 3.1 percent. 
That means a tax cut for 160 million 
workers in this country today. 

In my home State of Washington it 
represents a tax cut of around $1,700 for 
a family earning the median income 
next year. This bill would put money 
into the pockets of small business owners 
and encourage them to hire workers 
by cutting the employer’s side of 
the payroll tax in half as well and 
eliminating it altogether for firms that 

are making new hires. In Washington 
State, 150,000 small business owners 
would receive a tax cut under this plan 
and they would have thousands of dollars 
more in their pockets to spend in 
their communities and get workers 
back on the job. 

This is a big deal. Economists from 
across the ideological spectrum have 
said payroll tax cuts create jobs and 
boost the economy. They have said it 
could be devastating to allow them to 
go up in this weak economy. 

In the past, Republicans have agreed 
and have strongly supported payroll 
tax cuts as an effective way to boost 
the economy and create jobs, so this 
should be easy. It should be something 
both parties can get behind and quickly 
pass, but unfortunately it seems politics 
are getting in the way. I am disappointed 
that many of the same Republicans 
who spent the last few 
months fighting tooth and nail to prevent 
tax increases on the richest Americans 
and biggest corporations are now 
hesitating to give average working 
families a break. In fact, it was this 
very issue that prevented the Joint Select 
Committee on Deficit Reduction 
to come to a deal. 

On the Democratic side we put forward 
serious compromises on the table 
to get to a balanced and bipartisan 
deal, but our Republican counterparts 
refused to allow the wealthiest Americans 
to pay a single penny more in 
taxes and insisted that the middle class 
and seniors and most vulnerable Americans 
bear the burden of this crisis 
alone. It was not fair then; it is not fair 
now. This bill is fully paid for by asking 
millionaires, who earn more than 
$1 million a year, to pay a little bit 
more, a small step toward a fair share. 
It is not drastic. It does not close the 
loopholes and shelters that Republicans 
have been fighting hard to maintain. 
It does not touch the Bush tax 
cuts for the rich they have been protecting. 
It doesn’t end the tax breaks 
for the oil and gas industry that they 
would not allow us to close. It simply 
adds a 3.25-percent tax on incomes over 
$1 million a year. That means if someone 
earns $1.2 million in a single year 
they only owe an additional 3.25 percent 
on that last $200,000. 

At a time when so many families are 
struggling, we think this is a fair thing 
to ask the wealthiest Americans, who 
survived so well, to continue to give 
working families a break. 

This vote sets up a simple choice. Do 
you vote to extend tax cuts for middle-
class families and small businesses 
that have been struggling in this economy 
or do you vote to protect the 
wealthiest Americans from paying 1 
penny more toward their fair share? I 
know where I stand. I feel very strongly 
that we owe it to middle-class families 
across this country to extend this 
tax cut. I think it would be a whole lot 
easier if our Republican colleagues 
were as focused on tax cuts for the 
middle class as they are for tax cuts for 
the wealthiest Americans and corporations. 



December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8081 

I urge my colleagues to support this 
legislation and extend tax cuts for the 
families who need them most. 

I yield the floor. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY 
LEADER 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Republican leader is recognized. 


f 

PAYROLL TAX EXTENSION 
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, yesterday, 
Republicans, led by Senator 
HELLER, introduced what we believe is 
a much smarter approach to extending 
the temporary payroll tax cut than the 
one proposed by Democrats involving 
permanent tax hikes on job creators. 
Similar to Democrats, we think 
struggling American workers should 
continue to get this temporary relief 
for another year. There is no reason 
folks should suffer even more than 
they already are from the President’s 
failure to turn this jobs crisis around. 
But there is also no reason we should 
pay for that relief by raising taxes on 
the very employers we are counting on 
to help jolt this economy back to life. 
We would not be helping anybody by 
making it less likely that small businesses 
actually start hiring people 
again. Senator HELLER’s proposal 
would achieve the same result, the 
same relief, without a gratuitous hit 
on job creators. Even better, our plan 
protects Social Security and reduces 
the Federal deficit by more than $111 
billion. 
How do we do it? Consistent with the 
recommendations of the bipartisan 
Simpson-Bowles Commission, our payroll 
tax plan would institute a 3-year 
pay freeze on Federal civilian employees, 
including Members of Congress. It 
would also reduce the Federal workforce 
gradually by 10 percent, not by 
firing anybody but by only hiring one 
replacement for every three Federal 
employees who leave Federal service 
until a 10-percent reduction that the 
Simpson-Bowles Commission recommended 
is reached. So over this period, 
only hire one worker for every 
three who leave until it achieved a 10-
percent reduction in the Federal workforce. 
This is a recommendation in the 
Simpson-Bowles Commission. 
Our bill would also save money by 
means testing Medicare benefits for 
millionaires and billionaires. What 
does that mean? One of the things the 
economic downturn of the past few 
years has revealed is that a lot of people 
out there are getting a pretty good 
deal from the government at every 
level, all on the taxpayers’ dime. Let 
me give you an example. Yesterday, a 
CBS affiliate in Philadelphia reported 
that a former Philadelphia school superintendent 
who got a nearly $1 million 
buyout in August is now putting in 
for unemployment benefits. The lady 
was shown the door, given $905,000 not 
to finish her 5-year contract with the 

school district, and on top of that she 
now wants the taxpayers to subsidize 
her unemployment benefits to the tune 
of about $30,000 a year. Our proposal 
helps minimize this kind of thing. 

What we are saying is, anybody who 
makes more than $1 million a year 
should not get an unemployment check 
on top of it, paid for with tax dollars of 
folks struggling just to make ends 
meet. No more unemployment checks 
or food stamps for millionaires. No 
more unemployment checks or food 
stamps for millionaires. We don’t think 
these folks would mind having to pay 
the full freight on their Medicare premiums 
either. Millions of seniors need 
help covering their monthly Medicare 
premiums; Warren Buffett is not one of 
them. 

Here is another way we think folks 
such as Warren Buffett can offset the 
relief we are giving working Americans 
through our proposal of a temporary 
extension of payroll tax cuts, which 
would also incorporate legislation from 
Senator THUNE, that would allow people 
who want to voluntarily help pay 
down the Federal debt to do so on their 
tax return. There would actually be a 
new line right on Warren Buffett’s tax 
returns enabling him or anybody else, 
for that matter, to give as much as 
they want. That way those who want 
to go that route can feel they are contributing 
in a way they want to contribute, 
and small business owners who 
want to help our economic and fiscal 
situation by growing their businesses 
and creating jobs can do that too without 
Washington dictating one way or 
the other. 

This is the kind of balanced plan 
Americans are looking for. It is focused 
on helping middle-class Americans 
without asking them to fund benefits 
for the wealthiest among us, and it 
does so without hamstringing the economy—
as the Democrats would—with a 
permanent tax on job creators. Bear in 
mind what they are doing here is ‘‘paying 
for a temporary payroll tax relief 
with a permanent tax increase on job 
creators.’’ It also helps rein in the bureaucracy 
in Washington. 

Millions of Americans have had to go 
without or to live with less over the 
past few years. Yet all they see here is 
that Washington just keeps getting 
bigger and bigger and richer. It is 
about time Washington took the hit for 
a change. We think this is a plan that 
those who are fed up with Washington 
and Wall Street can embrace but, as I 
have said before, we are never going to 
turn this economy around as long as we 
are focused on these temporary measures. 


Yesterday, I outlined our vision for a 
tax-reform plan that restores basic 
fairness, helps put businesses on a level 
playing field, and puts our tax rates in 
line with our competitors overseas. 
That is the kind of thing that will get 
this economy charging again and we 
will continue to press for it. Meanwhile, 
we will also continue to point 
out what this administration is doing 
to prevent job creation right now. 

KEYSTONE XL PIPELINE 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Yesterday, Republicans 
drew attention to one of the 
greatest fumbles of this administration 
yet, and this is astonishing. I don’t 
know how many Americans are familiar 
with the proposed Keystone XL 
Pipeline, but this is an issue every single 
American is soon going to learn a 
lot about. The Keystone XL Pipeline is 
the single largest shovel-ready project 
in our entire country—the single largest 
shovel-ready project in our entire 
country. It would transport oil from 
Canada—our friendly neighbor to the 
north—to the gulf coast. It is privately 
funded, so it would not cost the taxpayer 
a dime, and we are told that its 
approval would lead to the creation of 
20,000 jobs, not some other time but immediately, 
right now. 

This project is enormous. It is a huge 
job creator, and it is ready to go. Labor 
unions love this project. Folks in the 
Heartland love this project. The Chamber 
of Commerce loves this project. 
But here is the problem: President 
Obama is getting heat from his base 
over this project, especially from the 
very young and very liberal voters he 
will need knocking on doors before November. 
So the State Department now 
says they are going to delay the approval—
even though previously they 
were seemingly ready to approve it 
after a 3-year review that has already 
occurred, including two exhaustive environmental 
evaluations. 

Here is the bottom line. The President 
has said time and time again that 
his top priority is jobs. Yet here we 
have the single largest shovel-ready 
project in the country ready to go, and 
he is delaying its approval—interestingly 
enough—until after the election 
next year. He is saying he doesn’t care 
so much about jobs in States such as 
Nebraska—that he doesn’t think he 
will carry next year—so he can keep 
the enthusiasm up in States he hopes 
to carry. So I think it is pretty clear 
the President cares less about this particular 
boon for job creation than his 
own job preservation, and it is wrong. 

There is no reason whatsoever to 
delay this project and these jobs by another 
day. As the President recently 
put it, we have to decide what our priorities 
are. We have to ask ourselves 
what is not just best for me but what is 
best for us. What is the best way to 
grow the economy and create jobs? It 
was President Obama who said that. 
That is why Republicans are proposing 
legislation today that would require 
the President either to approve this 
massive job-creating project within 60 
days or to explain clearly why he 
doesn’t think it is in the national interest 
to do so. We will give the President 
60 days—not after next year’s 
election but 60 days—to decide why 
this should not be approved and explain 
it to us. We think the people who want 
to start hiring deserve action or a 
straightforward explanation from the 
President himself as to why he opposes 
it. 


S8082 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

Get this pipeline going right now or 
get out of the way. 

I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Pennsylvania. 

f 

MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUT ACT 
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to 
speak about the issue of job creation 
and also supporting our small businesses 
and strengthening our economic 
recovery. 
One of the fundamental questions I 
have been asked in Pennsylvania—and 
I think most Senators on both sides of 
the aisle have been asked repeatedly, 
not just in the last couple of days or 
weeks but for many months now—is a 
very fundamental question: What are 
you doing as a Member of the Senate to 
create jobs or to at least create the 
conditions under which jobs will be created? 
What are you doing in your 
votes, in your advocacy, in your fight 
in Washington for jobs? What does that 
mean? Sometimes we have a better answer 
than other times. Today, and certainly 
in the last couple days—and I 
think we will be debating this for a 
number of days moving forward and 
that is a good thing—we will have a 
better answer to that fundamental 
question: What are you doing as a public 
official to create jobs in America? 
One of the ways we can kick-start 
the economy and get job creation moving 
in the right direction again is by 
passing legislation such as the legislation 
that I have introduced, the Middle 
Class Tax Cut Act. It is now before the 
Senate, as the Presiding Officer knows, 
and we have been talking about it already, 
but we have more work to do on 
this today and some voting to do today 
on this legislation. 
The legislation is fully paid for and 
will accomplish two important objectives. 
No. 1, it will strengthen the 
economy to support middle-income 
families, and specifically the way we 
do that is by providing middle-income 
families with a cut in the payroll tax, 
which means take-home pay that will 
help make ends meet for that worker 
and that family, but it will also have 
an impact by boasting demand 
throughout our economy. No. 2, we will 
cut payroll taxes for small businesses 
to help them grow and create jobs. 
Here is what most people are confronting, 
and it is not just the big numbers. 
There are more than 14 million 
people out of work across America. In 
Pennsylvania, the latest number for 
October was more than 500,000 people 
out of work. To be exact, it is 513,000 
people out of work. That number has 
fluctuated. Thank goodness it started 
to go below half a million, but then it 
bumped again to almost 525,000 so it is 
at least is moving away from that 
number. 
When half a million people are out of 
work in a State, you can imagine the 
hurt the families are feeling, the lives 
of struggle and sacrifice in our midst, 
and that is why we have to do some


thing to jump-start the economy and 
create jobs. 

I think the American people also 
want us to do this in a bipartisan way 
and we can and we should. We came together 
at the end of 2010 and passed a 
tax bill which was bipartisan. There 
are elements of that bill that one side 
or the other did not like, and vehemently 
so, but we came together in a 
bipartisan way to pass a tax bill at the 
end of last year. We need to do the 
same thing on a payroll tax cut. 

We need to work together, Democrats 
and Republicans, and get a result for 
the American people. This is something 
we can do right now—not 6 months 
from now, not a year from now but 
right now—to help our families and to 
create jobs. There is broad agreement 
that more needs to be done to support 
the economic recovery. We have to create 
more jobs, and we have to kick-
start the engine of economic growth. 

While the economy has added nearly 

2.8 million private sector jobs in the 
past 20 months, we continue to face 
significant economic challenges. Unemployment 
across the country, as we 
all know, is still at about 9 percent, 
and long-term unemployment remains 
at record levels, with 4 out of every 10 
unemployed workers having been jobless 
for 6 months or more. We know 
that gross domestic product—so-called 
GDP—grew at less than 1 percent, the 
annual rate, for the first half of the 
year. So for the first 6 months of 2011, 
we had less than 1 percent growth. The 
third quarter of gross domestic product 
growth was recently revised downward. 
Initially 2.5 percent, it was revised 
downward to just a 2 percent annual 
rate. So it is self-evident that we have 
to do something right now about jobs. 
With a weak labor market and only 
modest economic growth this year, it 
is clear we have to act right now. 
Payroll tax cuts and credits are powerful 
tools to increase job creation and 
provide economic relief for middle-income 
families. The current 2 percent 
payroll tax cut for working Americans 
that is in place now has played an important 
role in sustaining the economic 
recovery. By the end of this 
year, 121 million families will have received 
an average tax cut of more than 
$930 based upon last year’s action we 
took to cut the payroll tax. That was a 
good decision, but, if anything, we need 
to continue that as well as expand it, 
and I will explain that as I go forward. 

The number of families benefiting 
from this current payroll tax cut is 
very large because anyone who receives 
a paycheck benefits from a cut in payroll 
tax. Anyone who receives a paycheck 
gets this cut. Cutting payroll 
taxes immediately increases the take-
home pay of everyone who gets a paycheck. 


Compared to reducing the tax rates 
for the top 1 percent of the American 
people, more money goes to middle and 
lower income Americans, who are likely 
to spend it, if we keep the payroll 
tax cut in place, and, of course, we 

want to expand it as well. Because 
take-home pay is greater, people have 
more money in their pockets—as I said, 
more than 930 bucks this year. This additional 
take-home pay will result in 
more spending. When we spend at that 
level—and a lot of families are spending 
more, especially during the holiday 
season—that boosts demands for goods 
and services and that leads to job creation. 
This is not theory. This is not 
some untested theory or hope. We 
know this works. We did it in 2011, and 
we have to do more of it in 2012. 

The employee side of this—and I will 
divide this into employee and employer 
for a second—the employee tax cut expires 
at the end of this year, as I mentioned. 
Without congressional action, 
employees’ share of the payroll tax will 
return to 6.2 percent of earnings, up 
from the current 4.2-percent level. So 
we have a payroll tax that has been cut 
from 6.2 to 4.2. That is in place. But if 
we do nothing, if we don’t act, if we 
don’t pass an extension, that 4.2 percent 
will go up to 6.2 percent, and it 
will be a tax increase for families 
across the board. If we fail to act, these 
middle-income families will see their 
payroll tax cut disappear at the end of 
this year. Let me say that again. If we 
don’t act by the end of December, middle-
income families will lose this payroll 
tax cut that is in place now. 

What does this mean? Well, it means 
basically losing between 900 bucks and 
1,000 bucks. And this is take-home pay 
for workers and their families. 

This is a very tough time for families, 
as I mentioned before, with high 
unemployment and so many stresses, 
economic stresses and pressures on 
their lives. Families who are already 
facing both declining wages and stubbornly 
high unemployment, families 
who are struggling to pay for housing, 
make car payments, pay the food bill, 
pay for college tuition, whatever it is 
in their lives that means making ends 
meet, are still having a terribly difficult 
time. 

Losing this tax cut would also undermine 
the recovery by reducing consumer 
spending. Numerous economists 
and forecasters have highlighted the 
dangers to the economy of allowing 
this payroll tax cut to expire. Independent 
analysts estimate that letting 
a 2-percent employee tax cut expire 
would reduce gross domestic product 
growth by up to two-thirds of 1 percent 
in 2012. Mark Zandi, from Moody’s, in 
an article from September 9 of 2011 entitled 
‘‘An Analysis of the Obama Jobs 
Plan,’’ made that same point. If we 
don’t continue the payroll tax cut, we 
will have an adverse impact on economic 
growth. Goldman Sachs Global 
ECS Research had a similar conclusion. 
So this isn’t just about individuals losing 
a payroll tax cut that is in place 
now, this is about harming in a very 
adverse way our economy’s ability to 
grow in a substantial way. 

Let me talk for a moment about the 
legislation before us, the Middle Class 
Tax Cut Act which I introduced. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8083 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator’s time has expired. 

Mr. CASEY. I ask unanimous consent 
for an additional 5 minutes. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Is there objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. CASEY. I thank the Chair. 

Let me talk for a moment about the 
legislation. The legislation before us, 
as I said before, would both extend and 
expand the payroll tax cut that is in 
place right now. 

First of all, for employees, we cut it 
in half. So instead of paying a 6.2-percent 
payroll tax, the employee, the 
worker, would pay just 3.1 percent. 
That has a sizable impact on the economy 
when we do that—1,500 bucks in 
the pockets of the average worker in 
America. Approximately 160 million 
American workers are impacted and as 
many as 6.7 million in Pennsylvania. 
So we would not only keep in place the 
payroll tax cut for workers, but we 
want to expand it so it is fully cut in 
half. 

Secondly, I wish to speak for a moment 
about the employer side of this 
because that wasn’t part of last year’s 
effort. I introduced the payroll tax 
credit in early 2010 to encourage employers 
to hire and accelerate the pace 
of the recovery. A number of folks on 
both sides of the aisle have worked on 
this. The ideas of those kinds of tax 
credits in those kinds of bills we introduced 
form the foundation of what we 
are trying to do today. This legislation 
incorporates elements of my and others’ 
earlier legislation to provide businesses 
with quarterly incentives to increase 
their payrolls. 

I wish to highlight a couple of elements 
of the legislation before us. 

First, this bill cuts payroll taxes in 
half for 98 percent of U.S. businesses. 
These businesses have taxable payrolls 
of $5 million or less. They will see their 
payroll taxes cut in half, as I said before, 
for the worker as well as the business. 


Some people say: OK, that is 98 percent 
of businesses. That is good news. 
What about the other 2 percent who 
have higher incomes? 

Those businesses that have taxable 
income above $5 million will still get a 
payroll tax cut from 6.2 percent to 3.1 
percent on the first $5 million of their 
taxable payroll. So they get it up to 
that level. So this is a huge benefit to 
small businesses across the country 
and even some businesses larger than 
that. 

The Joint Economic Committee, of 
which I am the chair, recently released 
a report that indicated that small business 
lending remains well below prerecession 
levels both in the number of 
loans and the dollar value of those 
loans. So a lot of small businesses still 
cannot get access to credit. This payroll 
tax cut legislation will help those 
companies substantially to be able to 
get access to credit. 

Finally, I wish to make a point about 
the legislation as it relates to elimi


nating the employer’s share of the Social 
Security payroll tax on the first 
$50 million of increased payroll in 2012. 
This isn’t just a cut, this is an elimination 
if they do one of three things: if 
they are hiring more workers; if they 
increase the hours, which is another 
way to get the benefit; thirdly, if they 
are boosting pay. 

This legislation is one of the best 
ways to create jobs, one of the best 
ways to kick-start our economy. 

I will conclude with this. If we look 
at the real world of communities 
across Pennsylvania or across the 
country, means that if we pass this legislation, 
for median family income in 
Pennsylvania, the benefit is $1,535, a 
little more than $1,500. So whether people 
go to small rural counties or big 
cities or suburban communities, wherever 
it is across a State such as ours, 
workers will be able to put roughly 
$1,500 in their pockets for this season 
coming up when people need some help, 
and small businesses will be substantially 
positively impacted by this legislation. 


We need to pass this legislation. We 
need to do it now to help our workers, 
to help our businesses, and to grow the 
economy and create jobs. 

Thank you, Mr. President. 

I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Missouri. 

f 

CERP REFORM 
Mrs. MCCASKILL. Mr. President, I 
have offered an amendment to the Defense 
authorization bill that unfortunately 
we are not going to get a chance 
to vote on, but I want to begin talking 
about it because I think this is something 
we need to do as we appropriate 
money for our military for the next 
year. 
I wish to start by saying that I support 
the mission in Afghanistan, but 
after years of work on wartime contracting 
issues and looking at the way 
we have spent money through contracting 
in both Iraq and Afghanistan, 
I have come to a stark and real conclusion 
about the money we have wasted 
and continue to waste in this effort. 
We are building infrastructure in Afghanistan 
that we cannot secure and 
that will not be sustained. Since 2004, 
the Defense Department—just the Defense 
Department, not the State Department—
has spent more than $6.9 
billion in Iraq and Afghanistan on humanitarian 
stabilization projects that 
include infrastructure, energy, and 
road construction. 
Primarily, this has occurred through 
what is known as the CERP fund. 
‘‘CERP’’ stands for ‘‘Commanders Energy 
Response Program.’’ This began 
as an effort in the war against 
insurgencies, the counterinsurgency effort, 
the COIN strategy. This began as 
a good idea where the commanders on 
the ground would have money they 
could directly access to do small neighborhood 
projects, to win the hearts and 

minds, to secure a neighborhood, to 
stabilize a community. 

These projects were envisioned, when 
I first came to the Senate, as fixing 
broken panes of glass in a shopkeeper’s 
window. This program has morphed 
into something much different than 
what was envisioned at the beginning 
of the counterinsurgency effort in Iraq. 
These $100 projects, $1,000 projects, are 
now hundreds of millions of dollars. In 
fiscal year 2010, more than 90 percent of 
the spending in CERP was for projects 
over $1/2 million. At its height in 2009, 
the authorizations for CERP spending 
in Afghanistan and Iraq reached $1.5 
billion. And—this is the kicker—the 
military building large infrastructure 
projects has not shown a measurable 
impact on the success of our mission. 

I have stacks of studies, and I am 
such a wonk; I have actually read all of 
these studies. These are just a few of 
the studies that have been done by inspectors 
general, by special inspectors 
general, by the DOD inspector general, 
by the Wartime Contracting Commission 
that Senator WEBB and I put into 
place to look at all of the wartime contracting 
issues. Even our own troops 
have studied the expenditure of these 
funds. I want to quote their conclusion 
in a recent study that was completed 
by the troops that are, in fact, fighting 
this effort in Afghanistan. 

Despite hundreds of millions in investments, 
there is no persuasive evidence that 
the Commander’s Emergency Response Program 
has fostered improved interdependent 
relationships between the host government 
and the population—arguably the key indicator 
of counterinsurgency success. 

I go on, a direct quote: 

The effectiveness of CERP in advancing 
our counterinsurgency objectives in Afghanistan 
has yet to be operationalized or well 
documented. The relationship between development 
assistance and counterinsurgency is 
being increasingly challenged in the academic 
and practitioner fields with only unsubstantiated 
assertions and the occasional 
anecdote offered as counterargument. There 
are no clear objectives for a program that 
funds everything from immediate emergency 
relief to multi-year, multi-million dollar 
road projects. The lack of proper incentives 
and accountability measures have rendered 
CERP and similar funds an extractive industry 
for construction companies, nongovernmental 
organizations, and multiple Afghan 
government ministries, fueling rather than 
fighting corruption, community insecurity 
and insurgent coercion. 

Finding and defeating terrorists, 
fighting the Taliban, securing strategic 
victories against al-Qaida, training the 
Afghanistan military and police—all of 
these things I support. But this amount 
of money being spent on large infrastructure 
projects that cannot be sustained 
we must end. 

In an unprecedented fashion, our 
military—not the State Department— 
has embarked upon these massive 
projects. This year, for the first time in 
this authorization, there is now a new 
Afghanistan Reconstruction Fund to 
get around the limits that have been 
placed on the size of projects in the 
CERP fund. I call this fund the ‘‘son of 


S8084 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

CERP.’’ It has now been documented 
that they want to go even larger and 
even bigger with these large multi-
million dollar projects. I cannot stand 
by as we spend billions on roads, electrical 
grids, and bridges in Afghanistan, 
knowing the incredible need we 
have in this country for exactly that 
kind of investment. 

These projects are not being built in 
a secure environment. We are paying 
off people to try to keep the contractors 
safe. And it has been documented 
that some of that money has gone 
right into the hands of our enemy. 
That must be stopped. 

These projects, in many if not most 
instances, cannot be sustained. I can 
give a number of examples. But all you 
would have to do is travel around Iraq 
and see the empty, crumbling health 
care centers built with American taxpayer 
dollars, the water park that is a 
twisted pile of rubble that is no longer 
operational, all of the investments that 
were made in oil production and electricity 
generation that were blown to 
bits. 

I can give specific examples in Afghanistan. 
How about hundreds of million 
of dollars spent on a powerplant— 
the latest technology: duel fuel—and 
nobody there knows how to operate it. 
And they cannot afford to operate it, 
so it stands by as an empty, hulking 
potential generator for backup power, 
while they buy cheaper electricity 
from a neighboring country. 

For the first time, the Department of 
Defense has requested and received $400 
million in authorization in this new Afghanistan 
Reconstruction Fund. We 
should limit our military to the small 
projects that CERP was originally intended 
for, not produce contracts to 
major, multinational corporations. 

All of these reconstruction funds 
should be pulled, and my amendment 
would do just that. We would pull all of 
this money out with the exception of 
projects under $50,000. That would be as 
much as $700 million that we could immediately 
put directly into the highway 
trust fund in this country. That is 
what my amendment does. It will 
transfer that investment from a non-
secure environment, in areas these 
projects cannot be sustained, to the 
very needy cause of infrastructure investment 
in the United States of America. 


Let’s do this. Let’s stop these large 
projects that cannot be secured and be 
sustained. Keep in mind, as much as 
$700 million would be pulled, and that 
is a small fraction of what we are 
spending in Afghanistan. The authorization 
for next year is more than $100 
billion. So anyone who tries to say this 
will cripple our mission in Afghanistan 
does not understand the numbers. Of 
the moneys we are spending in Afghanistan, 
the vast majority is about personnel: 
to train the Afghan military, to 
train the Afghanistan police department, 
to fight the terrorists who are 
there, the Taliban, al-Qaida in the 
areas near Pakistan. All of that re


mains. A very small percentage of this 
would be pulled. But it should be 
pulled, and it should be pulled today. 
We should take this investment and 
put it in roads and bridges right here in 
our country. 

I hope this amendment will have success 
when we look at the appropriations 
process. I think it is time we stop 
this funding, and stop it now. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from New Mexico. 

f 

DR. DONALD BERWICK 
Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I 
want to take a few minutes to commend 
Dr. Donald Berwick for his service 
as Administrator of the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services and 
also to express my deep disappointment 
that his nomination was blocked 
by a minority of Senators. 
CMS, the Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services, has benefitted 
greatly from Dr. Berwick’s innovation 
and leadership, and the refusal of some 
Members to support confirming him for 
this position is difficult to understand. 
Dr. Berwick is widely recognized as a 
highly qualified leader in the realm of 
health care quality. But, unfortunately, 
many of my colleagues across 
the aisle adamantly opposed Dr. Berwick’s 
tenure, beginning when he was 
first nominated by President Obama 
for this position in April of last year. 
Many of these objections are based on 
inaccurate accusations and sound bites 
that have been completely taken out of 
context. 
Dr. Berwick has the qualifications, 
expertise, and demonstrated leadership 
ability that CMS needs at this critical 
time. He is a pediatrician by training, 
Harvard professor, health care analyst, 
elected member of the Institute of 
Medicine, a leading advocate on health 
care quality and patient safety, and a 
cofounder of the Institute for 
Healthcare Improvement, which is a respected 
think tank that trains hospitals 
on how to increase patient safety 
and improve operations. 
Don Berwick has also written extensively, 
with there being more than 120 
scholarly articles he has authored or 
coauthored, along with several books, 
on the quality and efficiency of health 
care. 
Dr. Berwick is a true visionary. He 
has been an advocate for transparency 
and accountability within our health 
care system, and his distinguished career 
has made him the ideal candidate 
to lead the CMS at this critical time. 
It was due to Dr. Berwick’s deep 
knowledge of health care, his vast experience, 
and his passion for this issue 
that his nomination originally won 
praise from across the political and 
professional spectrum. This includes 
Tom Scully and Mark McClellan, both 
former Administrators of CMS under 
President George W. Bush. They 
strongly endorsed his nomination. His 
nomination also had the support of Dr. 

Nancy Nielsen, who is the past president 
of the American Medical Association; 
John Rother, who is the former 
executive vice president of the AARP; 
and former Republican Senator from 
Minnesota, our former colleague, Dave 
Durenberger. In fact, Newt Gingrich 
even saluted Dr. Berwick for seeking a 
‘‘dramatically safer, less expensive, 
and more effective system of health 
care.’’ 

During his tenure as CMS Administrator—
the few months he has been in 
that position—Dr. Berwick has been 
able to implement impressive reforms, 
including launching the new CMS Innovation 
Center, which will test new 
health care delivery models that emphasize 
primary care and innovative 
ways to finance health care. 

He has also instituted a financial incentives 
program for physicians who 
use electronic health records. And generally, 
he has set the tone for health 
reform to take root and to provide 
Americans with affordable, high-quality 
health care in a cost-efficient manner. 


To be perfectly clear, I am not in any 
way suggesting that I do not continue 
to have enthusiasm for the President’s 
recent nominee to replace Dr. Berwick. 
From all I know of this nominee, she 
will do an excellent job. But I am frustrated 
that an eminently qualified public 
servant is being denied the opportunity 
to continue serving the American 
people in this important position. 
There is no valid justification for denying 
him that opportunity. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The majority’s time has expired. 

Mr. BINGAMAN. I ask unanimous 
consent for an additional minute. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Is there objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. BINGAMAN. John McDonough of 
the Boston Globe, in his commentary 
on the response to Don Berwick’s nomination, 
wrote: 

One of [health care’s] most distinguished 
leaders and voices got mugged by partisan 
Republicans who know better and who got 
away with it. 

I am truly disappointed that certain 
Senators have pledged to block his 
nomination and that he has chosen to 
resign his position effective tomorrow. 

Our task now is to assess the new 
nominee the President has sent us. I 
hope Members can come together to do 
what is right in this circumstance; 
that is, to quickly confirm an Administrator 
for this very important position. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Indiana. 

Mr. COATS. Mr. President, it is my 
understanding that I have 20 minutes 
of time allotted under morning business. 


The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Under the previous order, each 
Senator has 10 minutes to speak. 

Mr. COATS. All right. Mr. President, 
I do not think I will use all of those 20 
minutes. I might ask for 10 additional 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8085 

minutes. I will use the 10 minutes, but 
I may need to ask for some additional 
time if it works out and others are not 
waiting. 

f 

FISCAL STABILITY 
Mr. COATS. Mr. President, I come to 
the floor deeply disappointed—like 
many—over our failure to seize a 
unique opportunity to put America on 
a more fiscally sane path for the future. 
My No. 1 priority for this year—I 
have talked about it so many times, 
not only publicly but with colleagues 
in discussions for nearly a year—that 
No. 1 priority has been to advocate for 
a deficit reduction package that would 
be deemed credible by the financial 
markets and would put us on a path to 
fiscal stability. I think, given the situation 
that exists around the world 
today, nothing could have been more 
impactful in a positive way producing 
such a package. 
Financial experts agree—and they 
have now for years—that we are on the 
wrong path, that we are spending far 
too much in relationship to our anemic 
growth and GDP, and that we have 
staggered along for 3 years but continued 
to spend an extraordinary amount 
of money without seeing the economy 
recover. 
A number of plans have come forward. 
One year ago today, Simpson-
Bowles produced one of those types of 
bold plans that could help get us back 
on this fiscal path to prosperity. As 
you know, Mr. Bowles was the Chief of 
Staff to our former President Bill Clinton. 
He and our former colleague Alan 
Simpson put together a package that— 
whether you agreed with all of it or 
not, certainly was something that 
could have put us on a more fiscally 
sound path. Yet those recommendations 
were rejected out of hand by the 
White House and others. 
We have seen the activities and presentations 
of the Gang of 6. Forty-plus 
Senators, including me, came together 
in a bipartisan way to urge the President 
to join us in pushing for a bold, 
comprehensive plan. That was rejected. 
Earlier in the year, the President’s 
budget was laughed out of this Chamber. 
Not one person—either Democrat 
or Republican—voted for it. 
Then in August we came far shot 
short of what we needed to do to address 
our debt crisis when Congress 
passed the Budget Control Act. I was 
not able to support that particular 
plan. Although it averted a default on 
our debt, it fell woefully short of what 
was needed to address our fiscal situation. 
Nevertheless, that opportunity— 
which we had with the involvement of 
both parties to do something truly significant—
was passed over. 
So then it fell to the committee of 12, 
which is called the supercommittee. 
Many of us—offered suggestions and 
urged those members to try and go beyond 
the minimum of $1.2 trillion of 
deficit reduction over a 10-year period 
of time. 

There was a so-called Draconian sequester, 
or across-the-board cut, that 
would go into place automatically, 
starting in 2013, if the committee could 
not come to an agreement. The consensus 
at the time was these cuts 
would be so Draconian that it would 
force an agreement among Republicans 
and Democrats—to come forward with 
at least a minimal plan. Many of us 
were urging them to do much more, to 
bring forth something that would be 
credible with the investment community 
and restore confidence that America 
understood the dire situation we 
were in and we were doing something 
about it as representatives of the people. 


No clearer message came to this body 
than the message sent in November of 
2010 with the historic turnover of Members 
and an outpouring of support for 
putting the future of our country, our 
fiscal future and economic future and 
the future of our children and grandchildren 
ahead of politics. Yet it is politics 
that defeated the effort. 

Now, it is easy to blame the committee 
of 12. I know there was an earnest 
attempt to come together. I believe, 
politically, perhaps, it was 
doomed from the start just by the way 
it was designed. That is one of the reasons 
I voted against that proposal. 
Nevertheless, they made an earnest attempt 
but, unfortunately, were not 
able to bring it home. 

So the responsibility falls not just on 
those 12, but it falls on this entire Congress 
because we would not even have 
gotten to that supercommitteen if we 
had done our job earlier and presented 
a real plan in August, when we were 
bumping up against the debt limit extension. 
That’s when we should have 
done what most of us intuitively understand 
needs to be done. Yet the political 
considerations and ramifications 
were such that we came forward 
with a very timid and woefully short 
plan of what we needed to do. 

The President has to take some responsibility. 
We cannot really bring 
forward a bold change in the way the 

U.S. Government does business unless 
we have bipartisan support. We cannot 
get that bipartisan support unless the 
Chief Executive, the quarterback of the 
team, stands up and says: I want to be 
involved and engaged and stay engaged. 
While there was some rhetoric 
coming out of the White House, there 
was no plan. As I said, the only plan we 
have had from the President—his budget 
plan—was rejected earlier this year 
on a unanimous vote, every Republican 
and every Democrat turned it down. 
The President has said some nice 
words about what we needed to do and 
so forth and so on. But he was AWOL. 
As I said, the quarterback of the team 
needs to be engaged. He is the key person. 
Yet that quarterback was not even 
on the field. So responsibility falls on 
both Congress and the White House. I 
think some responsibility also falls on 
outside groups who distorted what we 
were trying to do, who mischarac


terized what Republicans were seeking 
to accomplish, and there was some 
mischaracterization of what Democrats 
were seeking to accomplish as well. 
But it was an undermining process. 
Those groups that supposedly are representative 
of seniors across this country, 
the shameful way in which they 
distorted the message and what we 
were trying to do—and, obviously, it 
had a political impact here and put restraint 
on Members because their base 
was being lied to in terms of what was 
under consideration and what we were 
trying to do. 

We all know Social Security and 
Medicare are not going to have the 
funds available in the future to provide 
the services that were promised to the 
American people. Yet any attempt to 
try to salvage and save and retain 
those programs’ solvency was distorted 
by these groups that supposedly represent 
the interests of our seniors. 
Many of these groups falsely claimed 
that we were trying to take away their 
program, we were trying to destroy 
their program. 

I mean, how ridiculous it is that 
someone is going to come in here and 
say: My goal is to destroy retirement 
benefits for the American people or I 
am here to take away health benefits 
for American retirees. None of us are 
here to do that. 

These programs are law. They are in 
place. We want them to be more efficient, 
more effective, but, more importantly, 
we want them to remain solvent. 
Yet outside groups were basically 
sending just the opposite messages. So 
the Congress failed. We came up short. 
But having done so, Congress cannot 
avoid the responsibility we have to do 
everything in our power to try to address 
a very serious fiscal problem that 
exists in this country. 

Years and years, decades and decades, 
not only this Congress but former 
Congresses, not only this President but 
former Presidents have made promises 
to the American people that we now 
are unable to keep because we do not 
have the fiscal capability of doing so. 
We have not had a budget come out of 
the Congress in more than 1,000 days. 
There is some indication that we will 
have a budget next year. I sincerely 
hope we can get together and come forward 
with a deficit reduction budget, 
one that recognizes the fiscal plight in 
which we find ourselves. I will work 
with both sides of the aisle to try to 
accomplish that. We have to acknowledge 
that we continue to spend trillions 
more dollars than we have available 
to us. No nation can sustain that. 

All we have to do is look across the 
Atlantic at what is taking place in Europe 
from country to country. It is not 
just Greece, it is not just Portugal, it 
is not just Ireland anymore. It is Italy 
and maybe France and maybe other 
countries. The European Union is 
struggling to try to address this serious 
debit crisis, the same type of problem 
we have here. 

There have been many here that look 
at Europe and say: They need to get 


S8086 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

their act together. Well, we need to get 
our act together here because what we 
are seeing there may be coming across 
the shore. Certainly, similar problems 
exist: promising more than we can deliver, 
borrowing more so that we can 
pay debts that we do not have the 
money to pay through the revenues we 
generate in our country. The same 
thing is happening here. 

This is the challenge in front of us. 
We need to find a way to seize this opportunity 
to do something for the future 
of this country. Our generation 
must step up for the next generations 
and for the sake of the country’s future. 
We need to continue this debate 
and go forward. It is easy to sit around 
and grumble and blame somebody else 
and say, well, we gave it our best shot 
and therefore we will just let whatever 
happens happen. We do not want to do 
that because what will happen here, if 
we continue on the current course, is 
what is happening in Europe today. 
There is no clearer picture of the consequences 
of a sovereign nation promising 
more and spending more than it 
takes in over time. It slows the economy. 
It piles up the interest payments. 
It shrinks the amount of money available 
for essential services. It puts the 
programs that were in place in real 
jeopardy. 

So if we consider the consequences, 
we clearly have to answer the question: 
Where do we go from here? How do we 
go forward in a constructive way? 

I would suggest a few things: First, 
we need to enforce the law that is there 
under the Budget Control Act. The law 
that is in place on the books now, even 
though I believe that law designed a 
process that is woefully short of where 
we need to go, but we need to enforce 
it now. 

No one wanted to get to this across-
the-board cutting, this sequester that 
impacts our national security and 
other functions of government. But 
that sequester was supposed to prevent 
us from failing and urge us to come to 
agreement. It did not. The sequestration 
rule now is the law, and I think an 
attempt to undo that is one of the 
most cynical things we can do, and the 
American people know it. I do not believe 
they will allow us to do it. 

So the law needs to be enforced if we 
cannot come up with the minimum 
amount of cuts required. We need to go 
forward and do that. So there are a 
number of ways—and I commend the 
committee for at least trying to come 
up with some efficiencies and effectiveness 
rein in our Federal spending. I believe 
they have a list of things that we 
can look to in order to enforce more 
cuts. I have suggested a triage process 
when we review every aspect of an 
agency of government, every function 
that is performed through this Federal 
Government, and basically say: We 
have a patient that is sick, a patient 
with a potentially terminal disease. 
But we need to triage. We have a bunch 
of people in the waiting room. Some of 
them need attention right away. So we 

need a triage of every agency, every 
function, every expenditure being examined 
from the standpoint of, is this 
absolutely essential to the future of 
this country, to the protection of our 
citizens? Is this an absolutely essential 
function of government that cannot be 
done at the State level, at the local 
level, or at the private level? If so, then 
that needs to have priority. 

Secondly, there is a whole range of 
issues. We come down every day with 
new ideas and thoughts of ‘‘this would 
be nice to do, but we cannot afford to 
do.’’ We have to delay these initiatives 
those or just simply say to people: I am 
sorry, we do not have the money to pay 
for this idea. 

So we separate the essential from 
‘‘like to do and cannot do,’’ and then 
we look at what needs to be done that 
someone else can do better. Whether in 
the private sector, at the State level, 
or at the local level, there are a whole 
range of areas where the Federal Government 
has gotten in way over its 
head. These are functions that can 
take place in the private sector or 
through State and local governments. 

We can look at the duplication and 
inefficiencies that exist. Senator 
COBURN came up with a long list, trillions 
of dollars in expenditures that 
could be saved. We ought to look at 
that. We ought to look at those and decide 
which ones we want to go forward 
with and how we can start that process. 


Let me mention a couple of things: 18 
separate domestic food assistance programs. 
Do we need domestic assistance 
for food? Probably there are some areas 
where we do. Do we need 18 separate 
programs dolling this out? 

There are 47 different job training 
programs. OK. The economy is restructuring. 
We need job training. Do we 
need 47 separate programs to do that? 

And my personal favorite: 56 financial 
literacy programs. We can argue 
that the Federal Government is in no 
place to teach the American people 
how to be financially literate. I think 
what we need to do is be financially literate 
here in Washington and then use 
that model to show people how to be 
literate rather than simply say, well, 
we have the answer. We, obviously, do 
not have the answer. Why we have 56 
financial literacy programs in place 
through the Federal Government is 
just astounding. 

So these are suggestions. There are 
many others regarding cutting of 
spending. But there are other functions 
that need to be addressed. There are 
three major categories. One is regulatory 
reform. Regulation from various 
agencies is costing the American taxpayer 
and Americans millions and billions 
of dollars. 

There is a process underway to look 
at those. That is one category. I can 
talk for a long time about that, but I 
will not. A second one is entitlement 
reform. Now, I have been talking about 
this subject from the beginning. This is 
the engine that drives the train of defi


cits, and we can stand by and continue 
to lie to the American people and say 
they have nothing to worry about. We 
can say we are going to preserve every 
penny of the Social Security and every 
penny of the Medicare and Medicaid, 
and it will always be there. Do not 
worry. Even the money put in via payroll 
taxes and so forth, it is all sacrosanct, 
and do not worry about it. We 
can continue that lie or we can tell the 
American people the truth; that is, if 
we want to keep these programs viable, 
we need to take structured reform 
measures now. 

Those could be increasing the age of 
eligibility for Medicare to coincide 
with the current Social Security age. 
It could be changes in some of the indexes 
that are used to calculate the 
cost-of-living adjustment. That could 
be modified through means testing. 

Warren Buffett says he does not need 
Social Security. Fine. If people do not 
need Social Security or Medicare or at 
least the full payment, let’s give them 
back what they paid in. So we could 
put means testing in there. We need to 
debate and talk about this issue. 

Is it politically sensitive? Sure. But 
let’s be honest with the American people. 
They want us to be honest. I think 
that is what the message of 2010 was all 
about. 

The third category, one in which I 
have been very involved in, is reforming 
our Tax Code, which is a mess. 

The tax code is totally incomprehensible 
to anybody who spends less than 
15 hours a day as a career studying it 
and trying to figure it out. Our tax 
code is a nightmare. Americans spend 
billions of dollars having people do 
their taxes because the tax code is too 
complex to understand. There are tens 
of thousands of pages in the Tax Code. 

There is a growing bipartisan consensus 
here in Congress that we need to 
reform our Tax Code. Senator WYDEN 
and I have a bipartisan bill that has 
been worked on for 3 years to reform 
the tax code. Our plan is not the absolute 
answer to everything, but it is the 
only bipartisan bill in legislative text, 
it has been scored, and it is available 
to be debated. I know the supercommittee 
looked at our proposal. The 
Ways and Means Committee and the 
Finance Committee ought to look at it 
as well. Tax reform can, make this 
country more competitive, grow economy, 
and help with our fiscal situation. 

I sense that I am close to or running 
out of time. In deference to my colleagues, 
I will wrap up. 

I came here deeply disappointed 
today. I remain disappointed that we 
haven’t been able to do more. My No. 1 
priority has been to advocate for going 
big on a deficit reduction plan. We 
weren’t able to do that. Experts agree 
that we must do more. We only have to 
look at Europe to see what is coming 
next. Let’s try to avoid that. There are 
plans out there we can build off of 
right now. So instead of just folding 
our tent and saying there is nothing we 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8087 

can do except wait for the election results 
of 2012 when we may have a different 
President or a different Congress, 
we have a responsibility to act 
now. There are ways we can do this. We 
need to demonstrate to ourselves and 
to the American people that we will accept 
this responsibility. I choose to do 
that. I choose to take the tough medicine 
for the future of the country. I believe 
the American people choose to do 
that as well. 

I urge my colleagues to join me as we 
move forward. Let’s not sit and wait 
for election results. Let’s do something 
now because the urgency and the crisis 
is real, and it needs to be addressed 
now. Let’s be responsible and step up 
and do it. 

I yield the floor. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Georgia is recognized. 


f 

TRIBUTE TO LARRY MUNSON 
Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I 
rise today, along with my colleague, 
my fellow University of Georgia graduate, 
Senator ISAKSON, to honor a man 
who died last week who became a legend 
in his own time in our great State, 
a legend who was respected by, as we 
would say, folks on both sides of the 
aisle. That term for this man means he 
was respected by Georgia Tech football 
fans as well as University of Georgia 
football fans. 
The man I am talking about is Larry 
Munson. Larry Munson was not a 
southerner by birth, but he became a 
southerner and Georgia Bulldog by passion. 
He was the Georgia football announcer 
for over four decades. During 
those four decades, he not only witnessed 
some of the most memorable 
football games, but he made some of 
the most memorable calls. His way of 
describing a football play will go down 
in the annals of broadcasting as not 
only being unique, not only being fascinating, 
but it will go down in the annals 
of sports broadcasting as being 
some of the best and most professional 
calls ever made on a football field. 
But there was more to Larry Munson 
than the ‘‘Run, Lindsay, run,’’ more to 
Larry Munson than the ‘‘Oh, you Herschel 
Walker,’’ more to Larry Munson 
than ‘‘We just stomped on them with a 
hob-nailed boot.’’ He was a man who 
had passion for life, a man who had a 
thorough understanding of his profession, 
and a man who worked very hard 
at his profession. 
He used to get up every Saturday 
morning before a football game and 
have coffee with our legendary coach, 
Vince Dooley. Coach Dooley said he finally 
had to stop having coffee with 
Larry Munson because Larry was ever 
the pessimist, from a football standpoint. 
Coach Dooley would come to 
those coffees feeling good about his 
chances in the ball game that day, and 
by the time he finished having coffee 
with Larry Munson, he had to go back 
and rewrite his playbook. 

Larry Munson was simply a man who 
loved the University of Georgia. He 
loved calling football games, and he 
loved putting his emotions into those 
calls. He was also a man who cared not 
just about the University of Georgia 
but about his students. He used to have 
what he called a Wednesday night 
movie night where he would invite students 
to join him at a theater in Athens, 
GA, and he would share time—his 
time—with students that he loved. He 
did this for years and years and years. 
I have heard stories from some of those 
folks who attended those movie nights 
that Larry Munson was more passionate 
about movies than he was 
about University of Georgia football, 
which is hard to imagine. 

As we look back on the life of Larry 
Munson, those of us who live and 
breathe Georgia football will always 
remember the passionate calls, the way 
he put his heart and soul into the football 
game, but we will also remember 
the man Larry Munson, who enjoyed 
life, enjoyed people, enjoyed his profession, 
and who gave so much back to his 
profession. 

He was a man who loved the outdoors. 
He came south from his birthplace 
of Minneapolis many years ago. 
He remained a true southerner not just 
for his 40 years of broadcasting at the 
University of Georgia but in his bass 
fishing, for example. I remember when 
he would come down to our part of the 
world in south Georgia to speak to a 
touchdown club, or whatever it may be, 
and he would always call up and say, 
‘‘Where is the best bass pond in south 
Georgia? That is where I want to be 
this afternoon before my speech.’’ He 
thoroughly enjoyed the outdoors, and 
he enjoyed being around people. That 
was obvious in the way he expressed 
himself behind the microphone when he 
called football games. 

As we celebrate the life of Larry 
Munson, we celebrate more than his 
historic calls. His passion for football, 
his passion for his family, and his passion 
for friends exceeds any passion he 
had for football. He was a great man, a 
great friend, and he will certainly be 
missed by our State and particularly 
by our university. 

With that, I yield to Senator ISAKSON. 


The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The Senator from Georgia, Mr. 
ISAKSON, is recognized. 

Mr. ISAKSON. I appreciate the opportunity 
to share a few moments with 
Senator CHAMBLISS on the floor of the 
Senate to pay tribute to a great Georgian, 
Larry Munson. 

Larry Munson was born in Minneapolis, 
and after the service he got a 
scholarship at a broadcasting school, 
and he got a job at the University of 
Wyoming. He worked his way to Tennessee, 
where he announced for the 
Vanderbilt basketball and football programs. 
Then, when the Braves moved 
from Milwaukee to Atlanta, he was 
brought in to be one of the announcers 
for Atlanta Braves baseball. Shortly 

after that, the voice of the Georgia 
Bulldogs retired and went to another 
job, and Larry Munson was asked to 
take over broadcasting at the University 
of Georgia. He was a Yankee, an 
outsider, not one whom many people 
thought much of when he started. Well, 
he became a legend in his time. He is a 
revered person in our State. 

It is said that Southeastern Conference 
football is not a game, it is a 
religion. In that analogy, if it is a religion 
in the Southeastern Conference, 
Larry was the high priest. He was the 
man whom everybody looked to to 
make the call nobody else could. The 
greatest tribute I ever saw to Larry 
Munson was on SEC football on an 
afternoon, at 3:30, when, a couple of 
years ago, before he retired, the announcer 
for CBS television brought in 
Larry Munson’s radio play by play and 
set themselves aside because he was 
that good. He brought the game to life. 
He brought a spirit to the game you 
just could not find. 

He was a hometown boy. There was 
no question whom he worked for, no 
question who signed his ticket. He was 
always fair but always friendly to the 
Dogs. It was his spirit that brought the 
University of Georgia from the doldrums 
of the 1960s to the height of college 
football—the national championship 
in 1980, four SEC championships in 
the last 12 years, and, hopefully, an 
SEC championship this Saturday 
night. 

Larry Munson passed away a few 
days before Thanksgiving in his beloved 
town and hometown of Athens, 
GA. Although he started in Minneapolis, 
MN, and went to Wyoming 
and later to Tennessee, he finally resided 
in Georgia, and he died in Georgia. 
He is esteemed in our State. 

On this day, let me, on behalf of the 
people I represent in my State of all 
persuasions when it comes to college 
football, pay tribute to a man who gave 
every single measure of himself to 
make sure every person who listened to 
his voice saw a game, whether they 
were blind or could see, because he 
brought life to a game like nobody else 
could. He was a great Georgian and a 
great American. He will be missed. 

I can promise you this: His view at 
Stanford Stadium today is far better 
than the view he used to have in the 
broadcast booth because he is high over 
the stadium, where he made his living 
and where he will always be remembered. 


I yield the floor and suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BROWN of Ohio). Without objection, it 
is so ordered. 

Mr. GRAHAM. I believe we are still 
in morning business. 


S8088 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
is correct. 

Mr. GRAHAM. I ask unanimous consent 
to enter into a colloquy, and if the 
Chair could let me know when 10 minutes 
has expired. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION 
Mr. GRAHAM. While we decide how 
we are going to move on the Defense 
bill, I appreciate Senator KYL coming 
to the floor. Senator KYL and I, along 
with Senators LEVIN and MCCAIN, have 
been working on detainee policy for 
years now. There is an issue that is before 
the Senate soon. It involves what 
to do with an American citizen who is 
suspected of collaborating with al-
Qaida or an affiliated group. 
Does the Senator agree with me that 
in other wars American citizens, unfortunately, 
have aided the enemies of 
their time? 
Mr. KYL. Mr. President, yes. I would 
say to my colleague, unfortunately, it 
is the case that there probably hasn’t 
been a major conflict in which at least 
some American citizen has decided to 
leave his country and side with the 
enemy. 
Mr. GRAHAM. Is the Senator familiar 
with the efforts by German saboteurs 
who landed—I believe, in the 
Long Island area, but I don’t know exactly 
where they landed—during World 
War II, and they were aided by American 
citizens to execute a sabotage plot 
against the United States? 
Mr. KYL. Mr. President, yes. In fact, 
there is a famous U.S. Supreme Court 
case, Ex parte Quirin, decided in 1942, 
that dealt with the issue of an American 
citizen helping the Nazi saboteurs 
that came to our shores. 
Mr. GRAHAM. Does the Senator 
agree with me that our Supreme Court 
ruled then that when an American citizen 
decides to collaborate and assist 
an enemy force, that is viewed as an 
act of war and the law of war applies to 
the conduct of the American citizen? 
Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I would say 
to my colleague, yes. My colleague 
knows this case, I am confident. I 
think one quotation from the case 
makes the point clearly—in Ex parte 
Quirin the court made clear: ‘‘Citizenship 
in the United States of an enemy 
belligerent does not relieve him from 
the consequences of his belligerency.’’ 
In other words, if a person leaves 
their country and takes the position 
contrary, they side with the enemy, 
they become a belligerent against the 
United States, the fact that they are 
still a citizen does not protect them 
from being captured, from being held, 
and in this case even being tried by a 
military tribunal. 
Mr. GRAHAM. So the law, at least 
since 1942, by the Supreme Court has 
been that if someone decides as an 
American citizen to join forces with 
enemies of the United States, they 
have committed an act of war against 

their fellow citizens. It is not a criminal 
event we are investigating or dealing 
with; it is an act of war, and the 
American citizens who helped the Nazis 
were held as enemy combatants and 
tried as enemy combatants? 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, yes. I would 
just qualify that statement this way. A 
person can be subject to military custody 
being a belligerent against the 
United States, even while being a U.S. 
citizen, be tried by military commission 
because of the act of war against 
the United States that they committed. 
One could also theoretically 
have been tried in a criminal court. 
But one can’t reach the opposite conclusion, 
which is that they can only be 
tried in civilian court. 

Mr. GRAHAM. In the Military Commission 
Act of 2009, we prohibited 
American citizens from being tried by 
military commissions. I am OK with 
that. But what we have not done—and 
I would be very upset if we chose to do 
that—is take off the table the ability 
to interrogate an American citizen who 
has chosen to help al-Qaida regarding 
what they know about the enemy and 
what intelligence they may provide us 
to prevent a future attack. 

Since homegrown terrorism is a 
growing threat, under the current law, 
if an American citizen became radical, 
went to Pakistan and trained with al-
Qaida or an affiliated group, flew back 
to Dulles Airport, got off the plane, got 
a rifle, went down to the Mall right behind 
us and started shooting people, 
does the Senator agree with me that 
under the law as it exists today, that 
person could be held as an enemy combatant, 
that person could be interrogated 
by our military and intelligence 
community and we could hold them as 
long as necessary to find out what they 
know about any future attacks or any 
past attacks and we don’t have to read 
them their Miranda rights? 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, yes. The answer 
to the question, short, is, yes. It is 
confirmed by the fact that in the 
Hamdi case, the U.S. Supreme Court 
precisely held that detention would be 
lawful. Of course, with the detention 
being lawful, the interrogation to 
which my colleague refers could also be 
taken. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Would the Senator 
yield for a question on that subject 
point? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona is recognized. 

Mr. MCCAIN. The individual who was 
an American citizen—Mr. Hamdi, the 
subject of the U.S. Supreme Court 
case—was an American citizen captured 
in Afghanistan; is that correct? 

Mr. GRAHAM. Yes. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Yet in the Supreme 
Court decision reference is made to an 
individual who was captured during 
World War II in the United States of 
America; isn’t that correct? It was referenced 
in the Supreme Court decision. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Yes. The In re Quirin 
case dealt with an American citizen 
helping the Nazis in America. The 

Hamdi case dealt with an American 
citizen helping the Taliban in Afghanistan. 


Mr. MCCAIN. The reason why I raise 
the question is because the Senator 
from Illinois, and others, have cited 
the fact that Hamdi was an American 
citizen but captured in Afghanistan, 
not in the United States of America. 

Yet isn’t it a fact that the decision in 
Hamdi also made reference to a person 
who was apprehended in the United 
States of America? 

This is what is bizarre about this discussion, 
it seems to me. 

Mr. GRAHAM. The Hamdi case cited 
In re Quirin for the proposition that an 
American citizen who provides aid, 
comfort or collaboration with the 
enemy can be held as an enemy combatant. 
The In re Quirin case dealt 
with an American citizen helping the 
Nazis in New York. The Padilla case involves 
an American citizen, collaborating 
with al-Qaida, captured in the 
United States. 

Mr. MCCAIN. So I guess my question 
is, it is relevant where the citizen of 
the United States was captured. Because 
the decision made reference to 
people captured both in the United 
States and outside the United States. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Exactly. I would add, 
and get Senator KYL’s comment. 
Wouldn’t it be an absurd result if you 
can kill an American citizen abroad— 
Awlaki—whatever his name was—the 
President targeted him for assassination 
because he was an American citizen 
who went to Yemen to engage in 
an act of terrorism against the United 
States. The President went through an 
Executive legal process, targeted him 
for assassination and a drone attack 
killed him and we are all better off. Because 
when an American citizen helps 
the enemy, they are no longer just a 
common criminal; they are a military 
threat and should be dealt with appropriately. 


But my point is, wouldn’t it be an 
odd result to have a law set up so that 
if they actually got to America and 
they tried to kill our people on our own 
soil, all of a sudden they have criminal 
status? 

I would argue that the homeland is 
part of the battlefield, and we should 
protect the homeland above anything 
else. So it would be crazy to have a law 
that says if you went to Pakistan and 
attacked an American soldier, you 
could be blown up or held indefinitely, 
but if you made it back to Dulles Airport, 
you went downtown and started 
killing Americans randomly, we 
couldn’t hold you and gather intelligence. 
The Supreme Court, in 1982, 
said that made no sense. 

If a Senator, in 1942, took the floor of 
the Senate and said: You know those 
American citizens who collaborated 
with the Nazis, we ought not treat 
them as an enemy, they would be run 
out of town. 

I am just saying, to any American 
citizen: If you want to help al-Qaida, 
you do so at your own peril. You can 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8089 

get killed in the process. You can get 
detained indefinitely. When you are 
being questioned by the CIA, the FBI 
or the Department of Defense about 
where you trained and what you did 
and what you know and you say to the 
interrogator: I want my lawyer, the interrogator 
will say: You don’t have a 
right to a lawyer because you are a 
military threat. 

This is not ‘‘Dragnet.’’ We are fighting 
a war. The Supreme Court of the 
United States has clearly said an 
American citizen who joins with the 
enemy has committed an act of war. 

Senator FEINSTEIN, who is the chairman 
of the Intelligence Committee, is 
a very good Senator. But her concerns 
about holding an American citizen 
under the law of war, her amendment, 
unfortunately, would change the law. 

Does Senator KYL agree with that? 

Mr. KYL. Yes. Mr. President, that is 
the key point. There is a reason why 
you don’t want to adopt the Feinstein 
amendment: It would preclude us from 
gaining all the intelligence we could 
gain by interrogating the individual 
who has turned on his own country and 
who would have knowledge of others 
who might have joined him in that effort 
or other plans that might be underway. 


We know from past experience this 
interrogation can lead to other information 
to save American lives by preventing 
future attacks, and it has occurred 
time and time again. In a moment, 
I will put a statement in the 
RECORD that details a lot of this intelligence 
we have gathered. It is not as if 
an American citizen doesn’t have the 
habeas corpus protection—which still 
attaches—whether or not that individual 
is taken into military custody. 

The basic constitutional right of an 
American citizen is preserved. Yet the 
government’s ability to interrogate 
and gain intelligence is also preserved 
by the existing law, by the status of 
the law that exists today. We would 
not want to change that law by something 
such as the Feinstein amendment. 


Mr. GRAHAM. Simply stated, when 
the American citizens in question decided 
to give aid and comfort to the 
Nazis, I am very glad they were allowed 
to be held by the military and 
interrogated about the plot and what 
they knew, because intelligence gathering 
is the best way to keep us safe. 

I would be absolutely devastated if 
the Senate, for the first time in 2011, 
denied the ability of our military and 
intelligence community to interrogate 
somebody who came back from Pakistan 
and started killing people on the 
Mall—that we could no longer hold 
them as an enemy combatant and find 
out what they did and why they did it; 
that we would have to treat them as a 
common criminal and read them their 
Miranda rights. That is not the law. 

If that becomes the law, then we are 
less safe because I tell you, as we 
speak, the threat to our homeland is 
growing. Homegrown terrorists are be


coming the threat of the 21st century, 
and now is not the time to change the 
law that has been in place for decades. 
I do hope people understand what this 
means. 

It means we would change the law so 
that if we caught somebody in America 
who went overseas to train and came 
back home, an American citizen who 
turned on the rest of us, no longer 
could we hold them as an enemy combatant 
and gather intelligence. That, 
to me, would be a very dangerous thing 
to do. 

I ask the Senator, who determines 
what the Constitution actually means; 
is it the Congress or the Supreme 
Court? 

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, ultimately 
the U.S. Supreme Court, when cases 
come before the Court that present 
these issues, determines what the law 
is. In this situation we have actually 
two specific cases, and there are others 
that are tangential, that do clarify 
what the Court believes what the Constitution 
would provide in this case. 

Mr. GRAHAM. So the issue is pretty 
simple. Our courts at the highest 
level—the Supreme Court has acknowledged 
that the executive branch has 
the legal authority to hold an American 
citizen who is collaborating with 
an enemy as an enemy belligerent to 
gather intelligence to protect the rest 
of us; they recognize that power of the 
executive. Does the Senator agree with 
me that the amendment of Senator 
FEINSTEIN would be a situation where 
the Congress does not recognize that 
authority and would actually try to 
change it? 

Mr. KYL. Yes. One of the questions is 
this interplay between the executive 
and the legislative branch. When the 
legislative branch, as Congress has 
done here through the authorization of 
military force, has provided the legal 
basis for the administration to hold a 
person engaged in war against us, then 
it cannot be denied that that authority 
exists. There is a 1971 law that Congress 
passed that said you could hold 
people only pursuant to law. This was 
the precise holding of the Hamdi case, 
where the U.S. Supreme Court said 
they had the authority because of the 
authorization of military force. So the 
executive has that authority, the legislature 
has provided the basis for the 
authority, and the Supreme Court has 
upheld it by its ultimate jurisdiction. 

Mr. GRAHAM. And to conclude this 
colloquy—I enjoyed the discussion—I 
am not saying our law enforcement or 
military intelligence community cannot 
read someone their Miranda rights. 
I will leave that up to them. I am saying 
Congress should not take off the 
table the ability to hold someone under 
the law of war to gather intelligence, 
and that is what we are about to do if 
this passes. 

To those who believe that homegrown 
terrorists are a threat now and 
in the future, if you want to make sure 
we can never effectively gather intelligence, 
we only have one option, then 

that is what we are about to impose on 
the country. 

Mr. KYL. If I might ask my colleague 
to yield for one other point I wish to 
make here. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Absolutely. 

Mr. KYL. In a criminal trial, the object 
is to do justice to an individual as 
it pertains to his alleged violation of 
law in the United States. In the case of 
the capture and detention of a combatant, 
someone who has taken action 
against the United States, the object 
first is to keep the United States safe 
from this individual’s actions and, second, 
where possible, gain intelligence 
from that individual. That is the critical 
element that would be taken from 
our military, were the Feinstein 
amendment to be adopted. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD a statement that 
makes very clear where military detention 
is necessary: to allow intelligence 
gathering that will prevent future terrorist 
attacks against the American 
people. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
WARTIME DETENTION OF ENEMY COMBAT


ANTS—INCLUDING U.S. CITIZENS WHO JOIN 

THE FORCES OF THE ENEMY—IS AN ESTAB


LISHED PRACTICE THAT IS CLEARLY CON


STITUTIONAL 

Unfortunately, in almost every major war 
that the United States has fought, there 
have been some U.S. citizens who have joined 
the forces of our Nation’s enemies or who 
have otherwise collaborated with the enemy. 
These traitors and collaborators have always 
been treated as enemy combatants—and 
have been subjected to trial by military 
commission where appropriate. 

The U.S. Supreme Court has consistently 
held that the President has the constitutional 
authority to detain enemy combatants, 
including U.S. citizens who have cast 
their lot with the enemy. 

In its 2004 decision in Hamdi v. Rumsfeld, 
for example, the Supreme Court held that 
the detention of enemy combatants is proper 
under the U.S. Constitution. Moreover, the 
person challenging his military detention in 
that case was a U.S. citizen. 

During World War II, the Supreme Court 
also upheld the military detention and trial 
of a U.S. citizen who had served as a saboteur 
for Nazi Germany and was captured in 
the United States. The Court made clear 
that ‘‘[c]itizenship in the United States of an 
enemy belligerent does not relieve him from 
the consequences of a belligerency.’’ That 
case is Ex Parte Quirin (1942). 

In support of her amendment number 1126, 
Senator FEINSTEIN yesterday cited a 1971 
law, apparently arguing that the detention 
of an enemy combatant who is a U.S. citizen 
would be prohibited under that law. 

That 1971 law is 18 U.S.C. 4001. It provides 
that ‘‘no citizen shall be imprisoned or otherwise 
detained by the United States except 
pursuant to an Act of Congress.’’ 

This is the very law that was at issue in 
the Hamdi case. And the precise holding of 
the U.S. Supreme Court in Hamdi was that 
the detention of a U.S. citizen as an enemy 
combatant through the duration of hostilities 
would not violate that law. 

The Supreme Court stated: ‘‘[Hamdi] posits 
that his detention is forbidden by 18 U.S.C. 
§ 4001(a). Section 4001(a) states that ‘[n]o citizen 
shall be imprisoned or otherwise detained 
by the United States except pursuant 


S8090 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

to an Act of Congress.’ . . . Congress passed 
§ 4001(a) in 1971. . . . [The government maintains] 
§ 4001(a) is satisfied because Hamdi is 
being detained pursuant to an Act of Congress, 
the AUMF. . . . [W]e conclude that 
. . . the AUMF satisfied § 4001(a)’s requirement 
that a detention be pursuant to an Act 
of Congress.’’ 

WHY MILITARY DETENTION IS NECESSARY: TO 
ALLOW INTELLIGENCE GATHERING THAT 
WILL PREVENT FUTURE TERRORIST ATTACKS 
AGAINST THE AMERICAN PEOPLE 

Some may ask, why does it matter whether 
a person who has joined Al Qaeda is held 
in military custody or is placed in the civilian 
court system? One critical reason is intelligence 
gathering. A terrorist operative 
held in military custody can be effectively 
interrogated. In the civilian system, however, 
that same terrorist would be given a 
lawyer, and the first thing that lawyer will 
tell his client is, ‘‘don’t say anything. We 
can fight this.’’ 

In military custody, by contrast, not only 
are there no lawyers for terrorists. The indefinite 
nature of the detention—it can last 
as long as the war continues—itself creates 
conditions that allow effective interrogation. 
It creates the relationship of dependency 
and trust that experienced interrogators 
have made clear is critical to persuading 
terrorist detainees to talk. 

Navy Vice-Admiral Lowell Jacoby, who at 
the time was the Director of the Defense Intelligence 
Agency, explained how military 
custody is critical to effective interrogation 
in a declaration that he submitted in the 
Padilla litigation. He emphasized that successful 
noncoercive interrogation takes 
time—and it requires keeping the detainee 
away from lawyers. 

Vice-Admiral Jacoby stated: 

DIA’s approach to interrogation is largely 
dependent upon creating an atmosphere of 
dependency and trust between the subject 
and the interrogator. Developing the kind of 
relationship of trust and dependency necessary 
for effective interrogations is a process 
that can take a significant amount of 
time. There are numerous examples of situations 
where interrogators have been unable 
to obtain valuable intelligence from a subject 
until months, or, even years, after the 
interrogation process began. 

Anything that threatens the perceived dependency 
and trust between the subject and 
interrogator directly threatens the value of 
interrogation as an intelligence gathering 
tool. Even seemingly minor interruptions 
can have profound psychological impacts on 
the delicate subject-interrogator relationship. 
Any insertion of counsel into the subject-
interrogator relationship, for example— 
even if only for a limited duration or for a 
specific purpose—can undo months of work 
and may permanently shut down the interrogation 
process. 

Specifically with regard to Jose Padilla, 
Vice Admiral Jacoby also noted in his Declaration 
that: ‘‘Providing [Padilla] access to 
counsel now would create expectations by 
Padilla that his ultimate release may be obtained 
through an adversarial civil litigation 
process. This would break—probably irreparably—
the sense of dependency and trust 
that the interrogators are attempting to create.’’ 


In other words, military custody is critical 
to successful interrogation. Once a terrorist 
detainee is transferred to the civilian court 
system, the conditions for successful interrogation 
are destroyed. 

Preventing the detention of U.S. citizens 
who collaborate with Al Qaeda would be a 
historic abandonment of the law of war. And, 
by preventing effective interrogation of 

these collaborators, it would likely have severe 
consequences for our ability to prevent 
future terrorist attacks against the American 
people. 

We know from cold, hard experience that 
successful interrogation is critical to uncovering 
information that will prevent future 
attacks against civilians. 

On September 6 of 2006, when President 
Bush announced the transfer of 14 high-value 
terrorism detainees to Guantanamo, he also 
described information that the United States 
had obtained by interrogating these detainees. 
Abu Zubaydah was captured by U.S. 
forces several months after the September 11 
attacks. Under interrogation, he revealed 
that Khalid Sheikh Mohammed was the principal 
organizer of the September 11 attacks. 
This is information that the United States 
did not already know—and that we only obtained 
through the successful military interrogation 
of Zubaydah. 

Zubaydah also described a terrorist attack 
that Al Qaida operatives were planning to 
launch inside this country—an attack of 
which the United States had no previous 
knowledge. Zubaydah described the 
operatives involved in this attack and where 
they were located. This information allowed 
the United States to capture these 
operatives—one while he was traveling to 
the United States. 

Again, just imagine what might have happened 
if the Feinstein amendment had already 
been law, and if the Congress had 
stripped away the executive branch’s ability 
to hold Al Qaeda collaborators in military 
custody and interrogate them. We simply 
would not learn what that detainee knows— 
including any knowledge that he may have 
of planned future terrorist attacks. 

Under military interrogation, Abu 
Zubaydah also revealed the identity of another 
September 11 plotter, Ramzi bin al 
Shibh, and provided information that led to 
his capture. U.S. forces then interrogated bin 
al Shibh. Information that both he and 
Zubaydah provided helped lead to the capture 
of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. 

Under interrogation, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed 
provided information that helped 
stop another planned terrorist attack on the 
United States. K.S.M. also provided information 
that led to the capture of a terrorist 
named Zubair. And K.S.M.’s interrogation 
also led to the identification and capture of 
an entire 17–member Jemaah Islamiya terrorist 
cell in Southeast Asia. 

Information obtained from interrogation 
of terrorists detained by the United States 
also helped to stop a planned truck-bomb attack 
on U.S. troops in Djibouti. Interrogation 
helped stop a planned car-bomb attack 
on the U.S. embassy in Pakistan. And it 
helped stop a plot to hijack passengers 
planes and crash them into Heathrow airport 
in London. 

As President Bush stated in his September 
6, 2006 remarks, ‘‘[i]nformation from terrorists 
in CIA custody has played a role in the 
capture or questioning of nearly every senior 
al Qaida member or associate detained by 
the U.S. and its allies.’’ The President concluded 
by noting that Al Qaida members subjected 
to interrogation by U.S. forces: ‘‘have 
painted a picture of al Qaeda’s structure and 
financing, and communications and logistics. 
They identified al Qaeda’s travel routes 
and safe havens, and explained how al 
Qaeda’s senior leadership communicates 
with its operatives in places like Iraq. They 
provided information that . . . has allowed 
us to make sense of documents and computer 
records that we have seized in terrorist 
raids. They’ve identified voices in recordings 
of intercepted calls, and helped us understand 
the meaning of potentially critical terrorist 
communications. 

[Were it not for information obtained 
through interrogation], our intelligence 
community believes that al Qaeda and its allies 
would have succeeded in launching another 
attack against the American homeland. 
By giving us information about terrorist 
plans we could not get anywhere else, 
this [interrogation] program has saved innocent 
lives.’’ 

If the Feinstein amendment were adopted, 
this is all information that we would be unable 
to obtain if the Al Qaeda collaborator 
that our forces had captured was a U.S. citizen. 
It would simply be impossible to effectively 
interrogate that Al Qaeda collaborator—
the relationship of trust and dependency 
that military custody creates would be 
broken, and the detainee would instead have 
a lawyer telling him to be quiet. And we 
know that information obtained by interrogating 
Al Qaeda detainees has been by far 
the most valuable source of information for 
preventing future terrorist attacks. 

Again, in every past war, our forces have 
had the ability to capture, detain, and interrogate 
U.S. citizens who collaborate with the 
enemy or join forces with the enemy. I would 
submit that in this war, intelligence gathering 
is more critical than ever. Al Qaeda 
doesn’t hold territory that we can capture. It 
operates completely outside the rules of war, 
and directly targets innocent civilians. Our 
only effective weapon against Al Qaeda is intelligence 
gathering. And the Feinstein 
amendment threatens to take away that 
weapon—to take away our best defense for 
preventing future terrorist attacks against 
the American people. 

Mr. KYL. I hope this statement clarifies 
in anyone’s mind the point that by 
taking people in custody in the past we 
have gathered essential intelligence to 
protect the American people. That is 
the reason for the detention in the first 
place—A, to keep the American people 
safe from further attack by the individual, 
and, B, to gather this kind of 
intelligence. Nothing precludes the 
United States, the executive branch, 
from thereafter deciding to try the individual 
as a criminal in the criminal 
courts with all the attendant rights of 
a criminal. But until that determination, 
it cannot be denied that the executive 
has the authority to hold people 
as military combatants, gather intelligence 
necessary, and hold that individual 
until the cessation of hostilities. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time 
of the Senator has expired. 

The senior Senator from Vermont is 
recognized. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I understand 
we are still in morning business? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time 
for morning business has expired. 

Mr. LEAHY. I ask unanimous consent 
I be recognized for another 5 minutes 
as in morning business, and the 
distinguished Senator from Illinois be 
recognized for 10 minutes as in morning 
business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, earlier 
this week, one of this bill’s lead sponsors 
said here on the floor of the 
United States Senate that the bill’s detention 
subtitle would authorize the 
indefinite detention of U.S. citizens at 
Guantanamo Bay. That is a stunning 
statement. We should all pause to consider 
the ramifications of passing a bill 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8091 

containing such language. Supporters 
of the detention provisions in the bill 
continue to argue that such measures 
are needed because, they claim, ‘‘we 
are a nation at war.’’ That does not 
mean that we should be a Nation without 
laws, or a Nation that does not adhere 
to the principles of our Constitution. 


One of the provisions in this bill, Section 
1032, runs directly contrary to 
those principles. Section 1032 requires 
the military to detain terrorism suspects, 
even those who might be captured 
on U.S. soil. This provision is opposed 
by the very intelligence, military, 
and law enforcement officials who 
are entrusted with keeping our Nation 
safe—including the Secretary of Defense, 
the Director of National Intelligence, 
the Attorney General, the Director 
of the FBI, and the President’s 
top counterterrorism advisor. As 
Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, 
I support the efforts of Senator FEINSTEIN, 
the chair of the Senate Intelligence 
Committee, to modify Section 
1032 so that it does not interfere with 
ongoing counterterrorism efforts or undermine 
our constitutional principles. 

In the fight against al-Qaida and 
other terrorist threats, we should give 
our intelligence, military, and law enforcement 
professionals all the tools 
they need. But the mandatory military 
detention provision in Section 1032 actually 
limits those tools by tying the 
hands of the intelligence and law enforcement 
professionals who are fighting 
terrorism on the ground, and by 
creating operational confusion and uncertainty. 
This is unwise and unnecessary. 


On Monday, Director Mueller warned 
that Section 1032 would adversely affect 
the Bureau’s ability to continue 
ongoing international investigations. 
Secretary Panetta has also stated unequivocally 
that ‘‘[t]his provision restrains 
the Executive Branch’s options 
to utilize, in a swift and flexible fashion, 
all the counterterrorism tools that 
are now legally available.’’ These are 
not partisan objections, but rather the 
significant operational concerns voiced 
by the Secretary of Defense and the Director 
of the FBI—both of whom were 
confirmed by this body with 100–0 
votes. And yet these are the voices 
that supporters of this bill would ignore. 


Supporters of this bill have argued 
that the new national security waiver 
and implementation procedures in this 
section provide the administration 
with the flexibility it needs to fight 
terrorism. The intelligence and law enforcement 
officials who are actually responsible 
for fighting terrorism and 
keeping our Nation safe, however, 
could not disagree more. As Director 
Mueller stated in his letter, these provisions 
are still problematic and ‘‘fail 
to recognize the reality of a counter-
terrorism investigation.’’ Director of 
National Intelligence Clapper has stated 
that ‘‘the various detention provisions, 
even with the proposed waivers, 

would introduce unnecessary rigidity’’ 
in the intelligence gathering process. 
Put differently, Lisa Monaco, the Assistant 
Attorney General for the National 
Security Division, recently stated 
that ‘‘agents and prosecutors should 
not have to spend their time worrying 
about citizenship status and whether 
and how to get a waiver signed by the 
Secretary of Defense in order to thwart 
an al-Qaida plot against the homeland.’’ 


We should listen to the intelligence 
and law enforcement professionals who 
are entrusted with our Nation’s safety, 
and we should fix this flawed provision. 

Senator FEINSTEIN’s amendment 
would ensure that the requirement of 
military detention of terrorism suspects 
does not apply domestically. As 
Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, 
I am proud to be a cosponsor of this 
amendment, and I urge all Senators to 
support its adoption. 

I know Senator DURBIN is next, but I 
now understand from Senator DURBIN 
the distinguished Senator from Missouri 
is going next. 

In any event, I yield the floor and 
thank my colleagues for their courtesy. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Missouri is recognized. 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent to address the Senate 
for 10 minutes in morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. BLUNT. I appreciate my good 
friend from Illinois allowing me to go 
ahead and talk about the Defense bill 
at this time, but doing it in the context 
of where we are on the floor right 
now. 

Mr. President, defending the country 
is the Congress’s most important constitutional 
responsibility. Abraham 
Lincoln said that government should 
do for people only those things that 
people cannot better do for themselves. 
If there is anything at the top of that 
list, this is at the top of that list. So it 
is critical that we have this discussion, 
that we pass this bill as soon as possible 
in order to give our men and 
women in uniform the tools they need 
to do their job and the certainty we 
need to know how that job is going to 
be done from the point of view of what 
the Government can and needs to provide. 


While this bill we are debating today 
is only about next year’s defense program, 
we should not lose sight of the 
fact that our budget environment is 
more challenging all the time and 
whether the automatic budget cuts to 
future defense happen, we do know we 
are going to have to be more thoughtful, 
more cautious about how we get 
the most for our investment in defense. 
Everybody else in America has spent 
the last 20 years figuring out how you 
focus on a better result from less investment, 
and defense is going to have 
to be there as well. Still, that does not 
mean it is not a top priority for the 
Federal Government. 

I appreciate the work my friends 
Senator LEVIN and Senator MCCAIN 
have done to get this bill to the floor. 
I am proud to represent a State that is 
involved in our national defense. Missouri 
is the home of Fort Leonard 
Wood, of Whiteman Air Force Base, of 
the Marine Corps Mobilization Command 
Center in Kansas City. We have 
dozens of National Guard and Reserve 
facilities in our State. Our State has 
17,184 active-duty soldiers, marines, 
and airmen right now; 34,000 Guard and 
Reservists. 

We are the home of large and small 
defense contractors that provide thousands 
of jobs in our State. Those defense 
contractors can do their work 
better and our defense dollars are better 
spent if we know what the plan is. 
The only real way to know what the 
plan is is to have an authorization bill 
that works. 

Since the beginning of Operations 
Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom, 
134 Missourians have given their lives 
and over a thousand have been wounded 
in the line of duty. In fact, one of 
the amendments I have that I hope 
finds its way into this bill is research 
associated with rehabilitating those 
wounded warriors who have eye injuries. 
Thousands of vision-related injuries 
have occurred as a result of the 
wars we are fighting now. Tremendous 
work is being done by St. John’s Hospital 
and Missouri State University in 
Springfield to see what can be done to 
develop better ways to deal with those 
eye wounds. With IEDs as a principal 
tool of our opponents, our enemies in 
this war, your eyes are the hardest 
thing ultimately to protect. Twelve 
percent of our wounded warriors have 
eye wounds. Hopefully we can look to 
see what we can do to provide greater 
protection and greater recovery from 
those wounds. 

I join all Missourians in thanking 
those who serve. I think all of us will 
show greater commitment to those 
who serve by actually having a Defense 
authorization bill that sets out a plan 
for the future. 

I am particularly pleased that this 
bill contains funding for modifications 
of the B–2 bomber’s mixed load capacity. 
Most of our Stealth bombers operate 
out of Whiteman Air Force Base in 
Missouri and we discovered, as recently 
as the operation in Libya, that operations 
with our B–2 bombers are not as 
efficient as they need to be or could be, 
simply by making that loading capacity 
work differently. That is the kind 
of thing we are going to have to do as 
we look at more difficult-to-get defense 
dollars. We are going to have to figure 
out how we spend those defense dollars 
in the best possible way. I hope the 
Senate language as it is in the bill now 
prevails in a final bill. 

I also want to call attention to the 
bill’s full authorization of the development 
of the next generation long-range 
strike bomber and I am pleased with 
the funding in this bill for a vehicle 
maintenance facility at Fort Leonard 


S8092 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

Wood and weapons storage at White-
man. 

I filed a few amendments to this bill 
and I will mention a couple of them. 
One I am working on with Senator 
GILLIBRAND is an amendment to ensure 
National Guard soldiers mobilized for 
domestic emergency operations are entitled 
to the same employment rights 
as others are when they come back. 
Senator GILLIBRAND and I also worked 
on a bill to ensure that people in the 
Guard and Reserve, and their families, 
have access to financial and marital 
and other kinds of counseling as they 
try to put their other life back together. 


I thank my colleagues for bringing 
this bill to the floor. We face a wide variety 
of threats today, including some 
that are new and constantly evolving— 
cyber-warfare, WMD, all things that we 
need to take seriously. This is a principal 
responsibility of the Federal Government. 
I am looking forward to seeing 
this bill passing the Senate today 
and then to work with the House to get 
a bill on the President’s desk so that 
all who are involved in the defense of 
the country know what the long-term 
plan is. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The assistant 
majority leader is recognized. 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank 
my colleague from Missouri, and I concur 
with his comments about our 
American military. We have the best in 
the world. These men and women serve 
us well with courage and honor every 
day, and we are fortunate to have 
them. We are fortunate—those of us 
who enjoy the blessings of liberty and 
the safety of this Nation—to have men 
and women willing to risk their lives 
for America. 

This Defense authorization bill is a 
bill that authorizes the continued operations 
of our military, and every year 
we pass this bill, as we should, in a 
timely manner. I have supported it 
consistently over the years with very 
few exceptions and believe the work 
product brought to us by Senators 
LEVIN and MCCAIN is excellent, bipartisan, 
and moves us in a direction toward 
an even safer America, and I 
thank them for all the work they put 
into it. 

There are provisions within this bill 
today which trouble me greatly. There 
are provisions on which I hope Members 
of the Senate will reflect, one in 
particular that I will address at this 
time. Senator FEINSTEIN is offering 
amendment No. 1125, which I am cosponsoring. 
I would say this amendment 
raises a serious question about 
section 1032 in this bill. I am concerned 
this section would limit the flexibility 
of any President to fight terrorism. I 
am concerned it will create uncertainty 
for law enforcement, intelligence, 
and our military regarding 
how to handle suspected terrorists. I 
think it raises fundamental and serious 
constitutional concerns. 

This provision, 1032, would, for the 
first time in the history of the United 

States, require our military to take 
custody of certain terrorism suspects 
in the United States. On its face, that 
doesn’t sound offensive, but, in fact, it 
creates a world of problems. Where do 
we start this debate? 

We understand the responsibility of 
Congress in passing laws and the President 
with the option to sign those laws 
or veto them and the courts with the 
responsibility to interpret them. When 
it comes to the protection of this country 
in fighting terrorism, most of us 
have believed this is primarily an executive 
function under Presidents of both 
political parties. We may disagree from 
time to time on the PATRIOT Act and 
other aspects of it and debate those 
issues, but, by and large, I think we 
have ceded to Presidents of both parties 
the power to protect America. 

My colleague and friend, Senator 
LINDSEY GRAHAM, a Republican of 
South Carolina, on September 19, 2007, 
stated—and he states things very 
colorfully and clearly— 

The last thing we need in any war is to 
have the ability of 535 people who are worried 
about the next election to be able to 
micromanage how you fight the war. This is 
not only micromanagement, this is a constitutional 
shift of power. 

That was Senator GRAHAM’s statement 
in 2007. Although I would carefully 
and jealously guard the constitutional 
responsibility of Congress when 
it comes to the declaration of war, 
even the waging of war, I do believe 
there is a line we should honor. We 
should not stop our President and 
those who work for him in keeping 
America safe by second-guessing decisions 
to be made. 

Today, again, on the Republican side 
of the aisle came colleagues who make 
the argument that it is a serious mistake 
for us to take a suspected terrorist 
and put them into our criminal 
justice system. They argue the last 
thing in the world we want to do is to 
take a suspected terrorist and read 
them their constitutional rights: the 
right to remain silent, everything you 
say can be used against you, the right 
to counsel. They argue that is when 
terrorists will clam up and stop talking. 
Therefore, they argue, suspected 
terrorists should be transferred to military 
jurisdictions where Miranda 
rights will not be read. On its face it 
sounds like a reasonable conclusion. In 
fact, it is not. It is not. 

Since 9/11, we have arrested and detained 
300 suspected terrorists, read 
them their Miranda rights, and then 
went on to prosecute them successfully 
and incarcerate them. They cooperated 
with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
gave information, and in many 
cases gave volumes of information even 
after having been read their rights. So 
to argue that it cannot be done or 
should not be done is to ignore the obvious. 
Three hundred times we have 
successfully prosecuted suspected terrorists, 
and America has remained safe 
for these 10 years-plus since 9/11. How 
many have been prosecuted under mili


tary tribunals in that period of time? 
Six, and three have been released. We 
are keeping this country safe by giving 
to the President and those who work 
for the President in the military intelligence 
and law enforcement community 
the option to decide the best 
course of action when it comes to arresting, 
detaining, investigating, and 
prosecuting an individual. 

Remember the man who was on the 
plane flying into Detroit a couple of 
years ago? He tried to detonate a bomb 
on the plane. His clothing caught fire, 
and the other passengers subdued him, 
restrained him. He was arrested, investigated 
by the FBI, and read his Miranda 
rights. Within a day his parents 
were brought over. The following day 
he decided to cooperate with the 
United States and told us everything 
he knew. At the end of the day, he was 
prosecuted, brought to trial, and pled 
guilty. He went through our regular 
criminal court system, though he was 
not an American citizen, and he was 
successfully prosecuted. President 
Obama had the right to decide what 
best thing to do to keep America safe, 
and he did it. Why would we want to tie 
his hands? 

Now let me talk about this section 
1032 and why it is a serious mistake. 
Section 1032 in this bill would for the 
first time in American history require 
the military to take custody of certain 
terrorism suspects in the United 
States. From a practical point of view, 
it could be a deadly mistake for us to 
require this. Listen to what was said by 
the Justice Department in explaining 
why: 

While the legislation proposes a waiver in 
certain circumstances to address concerns, 
this proposal inserts confusion and bureaucracy 
when FBI agents and counterterrorism 
prosecutors are making split-second decisions. 
In a rapidly developing situation—like 
that involving Najibullah Zazi traveling to 
New York in September of 2009 to bomb the 
subway system—they need to be completely 
focused on incapacitating the terrorist suspect 
and gathering critical intelligence 
about his plans. 

Instead, this provision, 1032, written 
into this law, would require a handoff 
of terrorism suspects to military authorities. 
So what does our military 
think about this? 

Well, the Secretary of Defense Leon 
Panetta made it abundantly clear when 
he said: 

The failure of the revised text to clarify 
that section 1032 applies to individuals captured 
abroad, as we have urged, may needlessly 
complicate efforts by frontline law enforcement 
professionals to collect critical intelligence 
concerning operations and activities 
within the United States. 

What we have seen, then, as our Secretary 
of Defense tells us, ceding to the 
military this authority could compromise 
America’s security at a critical 
moment when every second counts, 
when the gathering of intelligence 
could literally save not just a life but 
thousands of lives. 

Senator FEINSTEIN’s amendment 
makes it clear—as the administration 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8093 

wants to make it clear—that those terrorism 
suspects who are arrested 
abroad will be detained by the military. 
But within the United States we 
are told by this administration this 
provision will jeopardize the security 
of our country, will require a procedure 
now to hand off these individuals to 
the military side in places where they 
could not possibly be handed off quickly 
or seamlessly. 

We have 10,000 FBI agents dedicated 
to the security of this country when it 
comes to these national security issues 
and 56 different offices. We don’t have 
anything near that capacity when it 
comes to the military picking up the 
interrogation of an individual who may 
have knowledge that if we can glean it 
from that person could save thousands 
of lives. 

Why in the world do we want to tie 
the hands of law enforcement? Why do 
we want to tie the hands of the intelligence 
community? Why do we want 
to create this situation of giving to the 
military this responsibility when they 
are not prepared at this moment to 
take it? 

I think Senator FEINSTEIN is doing 
the right thing for the protection of 
this country. Her position is supported 
by the Attorney General, by the Secretary 
of Defense, and by the intelligence 
community. They have done a 
good job in keeping America safe. They 
have asked us: Please, do not micromanage. 
Do not presume, do not create 
another hurdle for us when it comes to 
gathering information that can save 
lives in America. 

Why would we do that? After more 
than 10 years of success and avoiding 
another 9/11, let’s not make the situation 
worse by this 1032, this section of 
the bill that is being presented to us. 

I know we will hear arguments on 
the Senate floor, well, there are opportunities 
for a waiver. So if a person is 
detained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
and then it is determined 
that this is a suspect who falls in the 
category and needs to go to military 
detention and then we need to turn to 
the executive side for a waiver of that 
military detention, how much time 
will be lost? Will it be minutes, hours, 
days? Could we afford that if what is at 
stake is the potential loss of thousands 
of American lives? Why? Why make it 
more complex? 

I cannot understand why the other 
side of the aisle is now so determined 
with this President to micromanage 
the defense of this country when it 
comes to terrorism. When it was a Republican 
President any suggestions 
along those lines were dismissed as unpatriotic 
and unwise and illogical. 
Now, under this President, everything 
is fair game. They want to change the 
rules, rules which have successfully 
protected the United States for more 
than 10 years. 

I urge my colleagues to support Senator 
FEINSTEIN’s amendment No. 1125 
and amend this section 1032 and make 
sure that our Defense Department, 

military and law enforcement, as well 
as intelligence community have the 
tools they need to continue to keep 
America safe. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that I be recognized 
to speak as in morning business 
for up to 10 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior 
Senator from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that when we return 
to the bill, which will be after 
Senator CORNYN speaks, we move immediately 
to Feinstein amendment No. 
1125, and that there be a 30-minute debate 
evenly divided and that the vote 
would occur immediately following 
that. 

I withdraw my request. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Texas is recognized. 

Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I want 
to talk about something that is all too 
rare, and that is bipartisan support for 
an important piece of legislation that 
not only fulfills America’s commitments 
to our ally, Taiwan, under the 
Taiwan Relations Act of 1979, but it 
helps stabilize a critical region of the 
world—that would be in Asia—and particularly 
the growing tensions between 
Taiwan and China. It also creates jobs 
in America by facilitating foreign military 
sales of things made here in America, 
by Americans, that we are going to 
sell to people in other countries—our 
friends in other countries—for cash and 
doesn’t cost taxpayers a penny. 

My amendment No. 1200 is pending 
before the Senate, and I was pleased in 
introducing this amendment to be 
joined by several of my colleagues on a 
bipartisan basis: Senator MENENDEZ 
from New Jersey, Senator INHOFE from 
Oklahoma, Senator LIEBERMAN from 
Connecticut, Senator WYDEN from Oregon, 
and Senator BLUMENTHAL from 
Connecticut. 

This amendment is straightforward 
and simple. It would require the President 
to carry out the sale of 66 F–16C/ 
D aircraft to Taiwan. These are Amer-
ican-made fighters our Democratic ally 
in Taiwan has been trying to purchase 
since 2007. As I said earlier, this is a 
win-win amendment. It reflects the 
right national security policy, and it is 
good for the American economy and 
jobs. We know Taiwan’s Air Force continues 
to deteriorate. 

First, let me just remind my colleagues 
what Taiwan is looking at in 
terms of the disparity in combat aircraft 
between Communist China and 
Democratic Taiwan. 

Communist China has roughly 2,300 
operational combat aircraft. Our ally 
and friend democratic Taiwan has 490 
operational combat aircraft—obviously 
a growing imbalance in the Taiwan 
Strait. But that only tells part of the 
story because, as my colleagues also 

know, this chart indicates the incredible 
shrinkage of Taiwan’s air force, 
that many of Taiwan’s combat aircraft 
are F–5 aircraft which America has previously 
sold to Taiwan but which are 
now becoming older and more obsolete 
as time goes by, as well as French Mirage 
2000 aircraft. As this chart indicates, 
around roughly 2020, maybe even 
before, these aircraft are going to become 
completely obsolete, and we will 
see the huge cliff and, in fact, exacerbate 
the disparity between Communist 
China and our democratic ally Taiwan. 

This F–16 sale would be an export-
driven job machine for our country at 
a time when unemployment is at 9 percent 
and when the No. 1 issue on America’s 
agenda is job creation. People 
without jobs can’t pay their mortgages, 
and they lose their homes due to 
foreclosure. Why in the world, when 
this sale would support jobs in 32 different 
States and the District of Columbia, 
would anyone object to this 
amendment? Indeed, as I indicated, I 
believe there is strong bipartisan support 
for it. This sale would support 
more than 60 job-years of employment 
and generate some $8.7 billion in economic 
output. It would also generate 
$768 million in taxes for the Federal 
Government. 

As I indicated, Taiwan’s air force is 
facing a looming fighter shortfall. The 
fact is, this falls squarely in Congress’s 
wheelhouse. The Taiwan Relations Act 
that I referred to earlier was, in 1979, 
signed by President Jimmy Carter with 
bipartisan support. It requires the U.S. 
Government to provide Taiwan, our 
friend and ally, with the defense articles 
necessary for them to defend 
themselves against Communist Chinese 
aggression, and it instructs the President 
and the Congress to determine the 
nature and quantity of such defense articles 
based on their judgment of the 
needs of Taiwan. 

Forty-seven Democrats and Republicans 
in the Senate—almost half— 
have signed a letter to the President of 
the United States supporting this sale. 
In the House of Representatives, 181 
Democrats and Republicans have 
signed a letter to the President supporting 
this sale. 

As my colleagues will recall, in September 
the Senate voted on an amendment 
like this in the trade adjustment 
authority assistance bill, which ended 
up in a 48-to-48 tie. Although the bill 
had strong bipartisan support, some of 
my colleagues said they preferred not 
to offer that amendment on that particular 
legislative vehicle but said that 
if I came back on an appropriate legislative 
vehicle, they would support it. 
And if there is a more appropriate legislative 
vehicle than the Defense authorization 
bill, I hope someone will 
point that out to me. This is the appropriate 
vehicle. This is the appropriate 
time. This is the right thing to do for 
job creation in America. It is the right 
thing to do in terms of our national security 
and stability in Asia. That is 
why I believe this is an appropriate 
time for us to take up this amendment. 


S8094 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

I was advised by the Parliamentarian 
that my original amendment as drafted 
would not be germane postcloture. 
However, in consultation with the Parliamentarian, 
we have come up with a 
technical modification which essentially 
would strike what are called the 
findings that would support the need 
for the legislation. In essence, it 
strikes the A section and the B section 
and leaves only the C section remaining. 
This, of course, at this point in the 
proceedings would require unanimous 
consent. 

In consultation with Senator 
MCCAIN, the ranking member of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee, I 
am advised that our friends across the 
aisle will not grant unanimous consent 
for us to modify what is really a technical 
modification for this amendment 
so we can get a vote on it. I realize 
that at this point we are in morning 
business and it is not appropriate, perhaps, 
for me to ask unanimous consent, 
but I will ask unanimous consent at a 
later and appropriate time because I 
would like to get an explanation from 
the distinguished chairman of the 
Armed Services Committee as to why 
in the world there would be an objection 
to an amendment that enjoys such 
broad bipartisan support on a clearly 
appropriate legislative vehicle. 

Madam President, I see the distinguished 
chairman on the floor. So I 
would at this time, if it is appropriate, 
ask unanimous consent to modify my 
pending amendment, to strike the findings 
under section A and under section 
B, and to leave section C, which states 
in full: 

Sale of aircraft. The President shall carry 
out the sale of no fewer than 66 F–16 C and 
D multirole fighter aircraft to Taiwan. 

We have been advised by the Parliamentarian 
that this section is indeed 
germane and would be eligible for a 
vote with that modification. So I ask 
unanimous consent to so modify my 
amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. 
HAGAN). Is there objection? 

Mr. LEVIN. Reserving the right to 
object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, there 
is objection on this side, and I will attempt 
to bring together Senator CORNYN 
and the objectors so he can hear 
from them why they object, but in the 
meantime I object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection 
is heard. 

The Senator from Texas. 

Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I 
am disappointed, but more than disappointed, 
I look forward to that explanation. 
I hope there will be an opportunity 
to have a colloquy and a discussion 
here on the floor so the American 
people can see why a piece of legislation 
that enjoys such broad bipartisan 
support can’t even get a vote. 

When people watch what is happening 
in Washington these days, I 
think they are tempted to avert their 

gaze because they ask the question of 
me—and I am sure, when the Presiding 
Officer is back in North Carolina, of 
her as well—why can’t people get anything 
done? Well, it is because, unfortunately, 
of things like this. These are 
technical objections that are not based 
on the substance or the merit of the 
legislation. 

I respect the chairman of the Armed 
Services Committee, who says there is 
an objection on the Democratic side, 
and he personally is not making that 
objection but is on behalf of some 
unnamed other party. I hope that person 
will be named. I hope they will 
come to the floor. I hope they will explain 
to the American people and to 
our Democratic allies in Taiwan why it 
is they object to a vote on this amendment. 


I believe that if we are able to get a 
vote on the Defense authorization bill, 
this has a high likelihood of passage, 
and I think it would send a strong message 
to our friends and allies around 
the world that, yes, you can count on 
your friend and ally, the United States 
of America. Conversely, if we are 
thwarted in our attempt to try to get 
this amendment voted on and passed, 
then this will send a countervailing 
message—that you cannot depend on 
America—and it will embolden bullies 
around the world. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

The Senator from Michigan. 

f 

ORDER OF PROCEDURE 
Mr. LEVIN. I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate proceed to the consideration 
of the pending Feinstein 
amendment No. 1125; that there be 30 
minutes of debate equally divided and 
controlled in the usual form; that upon 
the use or yielding back of time, the 
Senate proceed to vote in relation to 
the Feinstein amendment, with no 
amendments in order prior to the vote. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

CONCLUSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning 
business is closed. 

f 

NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION 
ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2012 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate will resume 
consideration of S. 1867, which 
the clerk will report. 

The bill clerk read as follows: 

A bill (S 1867), to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for military activities of 
the Department of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the 
Department of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and 

for other purposes. 

Pending: 

Merkley amendment No. 1174, to express 

the sense of Congress regarding the expe


dited transition of responsibility for military 
and security operations in Afghanistan 
to the Government of Afghanistan. 

Feinstein amendment No. 1125, to clarify 
the applicability of requirements for military 
custody with respect to detainees. 

Feinstein amendment No. 1126, to limit the 
authority of the Armed Forces to detain citizens 
of the United States under section 1031. 

Franken amendment No. 1197, to require 
contractors to make timely payments to 
subcontractors that are small business concerns. 


Begich amendment No. 1114, to amend title 
10, United States Code, to authorize space-
available travel on military aircraft for 
members of the Reserve components, a member 
or former member of a Reserve component 
who is eligible for retired pay but for 
age, widows and widowers of retired members, 
and dependents. 

Shaheen amendment No. 1120, to exclude 
cases in which pregnancy is the result of an 
act of rape or incest from the prohibition on 
funding of abortions by the Department of 
Defense. 

Collins amendment No. 1105, to make permanent 
the requirement for certifications 
relating to the transfer of detainees at U.S. 
Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to 
foreign countries and other foreign entities. 

Collins amendment No. 1155, to authorize 
educational assistance under the Armed 
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program 
for pursuit of advanced degrees in 
physical therapy and occupational therapy. 

Collins amendment No. 1158, to clarify the 
permanence of the prohibition on transfers 
of recidivist detainees at U.S. Naval Station 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to foreign countries 
and entities. 

Inhofe amendment No. 1097, to eliminate 
gaps and redundancies between the over 200 
programs within the Department of Defense 
that address psychological health and traumatic 
brain injury. 

Inhofe amendment No. 1099, to express the 
sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense 
should implement the recommendations 
of the Comptroller General of the 
United States regarding prevention, abatement, 
and data collection to address hearing 
injuries and hearing loss among members of 
the Armed Forces. 

Inhofe amendment No. 1100, to extend to 
products and services from Latvia existing 
temporary authority to procure certain 
products and services from countries along a 
major route of supply to Afghanistan. 

Inhofe amendment No. 1093, to require the 
detention at U.S. Naval Station Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, of high-value enemy combatants 
who will be detained long-term. 

Casey amendment No. 1139, to require contractors 
to notify small business concerns 
that have been included in offers relating to 
contracts let by Federal agencies. 

McCain (for Cornyn) amendment No. 1200, 
to provide Taiwan with critically needed 
U.S.-built multirole fighter aircraft to 
strengthen its self-defense capability against 
the increasing military threat from China. 

McCain (for Ayotte) amendment No. 1068, 
to authorize lawful interrogation methods in 
addition to those authorized by the Army 
Field Manual for the collection of foreign intelligence 
information through interrogations. 


McCain (for Brown (MA)/Boozman) amendment 
No. 1119, to protect the child custody 
rights of members of the Armed Forces deployed 
in support of a contingency operation. 


McCain (for Brown (MA)) amendment No. 
1090, to provide that the basic allowance for 
housing in effect for a member of the National 
Guard is not reduced when the member 
transitions between Active-Duty and 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8095 

full-time National Guard duty without a 
break in Active service. 

McCain (for Brown (MA)) amendment No. 
1089, to require certain disclosures from postsecondary 
institutions that participate in 
tuition assistance programs of the Department 
of Defense. 

Udall (NM) amendment No. 1153, to include 
ultralight vehicles in the definition of aircraft 
for purposes of the aviation smuggling 
provisions of the Tariff Act of 1930. 

Udall (NM) amendment No. 1154, to direct 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish 
an open burn pit registry to ensure that 
members of the Armed Forces who may have 
been exposed to toxic chemicals and fumes 
caused by open burn pits while deployed to 
Afghanistan or Iraq receive information regarding 
such exposure. 

Udall (NM)/Schumer amendment No. 1202, 
to clarify the application of the provisions of 
the Buy American Act to the procurement of 
photovoltaic devices by the Department of 
Defense. 

McCain (for Corker) amendment No. 1171, 
to prohibit funding for any unit of a security 
force of Pakistan if there is credible evidence 
that the unit maintains connections with an 
organization known to conduct terrorist activities 
against the United States or U.S. allies. 


McCain (for Corker) amendment No. 1173, 
to express the sense of the Senate on the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 

Levin (for Bingaman) amendment No. 1117, 
to provide for national security benefits for 
White Sands Missile Range and Fort Bliss. 

Levin (for Gillibrand/Portman) amendment 
No. 1187, to expedite the hiring authority for 
the defense information technology/cyber 
workforce. 

Levin (for Gillibrand/Blunt) amendment 
No. 1211, to authorize the Secretary of Defense 
to provide assistance to State National 
Guards to provide counseling and reintegration 
services for members of Reserve components 
of the Armed Forces ordered to Active 
Duty in support of a contingency operation, 
members returning from such Active Duty, 
veterans of the Armed Forces, and their families. 


Merkley amendment No. 1239, to expand 
the Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David 
Fry Scholarship to include spouses of members 
of the Armed Forces who die in the line 
of duty. 

Merkley amendment No. 1256, to require a 
plan for the expedited transition of responsibility 
for military and security operations in 
Afghanistan to the Government of Afghanistan. 


Merkley amendment No. 1258, to require 
the timely identification of qualified census 
tracts for purposes of the HUBZone Program. 

Leahy amendment No. 1087, to improve the 
provisions relating to the treatment of certain 
sensitive national security information 
under the Freedom of Information Act. 

Leahy/Grassley amendment No. 1186, to 
provide the Department of Justice necessary 
tools to fight fraud by reforming the working 
capital fund. 

Wyden/Merkley amendment No. 1160, to 
provide for the closure of Umatilla Army 
Chemical Depot, Oregon. 

Wyden amendment No. 1253, to provide for 
the retention of members of the Reserve 
components on Active Duty for a period of 45 
days following an extended deployment in 
contingency operations or homeland defense 
missions to support their reintegration into 
civilian life. 

Ayotte (for Graham) amendment No. 1179, 
to specify the number of judge advocates of 
the Air Force in the regular grade of brigadier 
general. 

Ayotte (for Heller/Kirk) amendment No. 
1137, to provide for the recognition of Jeru


salem as the capital of Israel and the relocation 
to Jerusalem of the U.S. Embassy in 
Israel. 

Ayotte (for Heller) amendment No. 1138, to 
provide for the exhumation and transfer of 
remains of deceased members of the Armed 
Forces buried in Tripoli, Libya. 

Ayotte (for McCain) amendment No. 1247, 
to restrict the authority of the Secretary of 
Defense to develop public infrastructure on 
Guam until certain conditions related to 
Guam realignment have been met. 

Ayotte (for McCain/Ayotte) amendment 
No. 1249, to limit the use of cost-type contracts 
by the Department of Defense for 
major defense acquisition programs. 

Ayotte (for McCain) amendment No. 1220, 
to require Comptroller General of the United 
States reports on the Department of Defense 
implementation of justification and approval 
requirements for certain sole-source contracts. 


Ayotte (for McCain) amendment No. 1248, 
to expand the authority for the overhaul and 
repair of vessels to the United States, Guam, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
Islands. 

Ayotte (for McCain) amendment No. 1118, 
to modify the availability of surcharges collected 
by commissary stores. 

Sessions amendment No. 1182, to prohibit 
the permanent stationing of more than two 
Army brigade combat teams within the geographic 
boundaries of the U.S. European 
Command. 

Sessions amendment No. 1184, to limit any 
reduction in the number of surface combatants 
of the Navy below 313 vessels. 

Sessions amendment No. 1274, to clarify 
the disposition under the law of war of persons 
detained by the Armed Forces of the 
United States pursuant to the authorization 
for use of military force. 

Levin (for Reed) amendment No. 1146, to 
provide for the participation of military 
technicians (dual status) in the study on the 
termination of military technician as a distinct 
personnel management category. 

Levin (for Reed) amendment No. 1147, to 
prohibit the repayment of enlistment or related 
bonuses by certain individuals who become 
employed as military technicians (dual 
status) while already a member of a Reserve 
component. 

Levin (for Reed) amendment No. 1148, to 
provide rights of grievance, arbitration, appeal, 
and review beyond the adjutant general 
for military technicians. 

Levin (for Reed) amendment No. 1204, to 
authorize a pilot program on enhancements 
of Department of Defense efforts on mental 
health in the National Guard and Reserves 
through community partnerships. 

Levin (for Reed) amendment No. 1294, to 
enhance consumer credit protections for 
members of the Armed Forces and their dependents. 


Levin amendment No. 1293, to authorize 
the transfer of certain high-speed ferries to 
the Navy. 

Levin (for Boxer) amendment No. 1206, to 
implement commonsense controls on the 
taxpayer-funded salaries of defense contractors. 


Chambliss amendment No. 1304, to require 
a report on the reorganization of the Air 
Force Materiel Command. 

Levin (for Brown (OH)) amendment No. 
1259, to link domestic manufacturers to defense 
supply chain opportunities. 

Levin (for Brown (OH)) amendment No. 
1261, to extend treatment of base closure 
areas as HUBZones for purposes of the Small 
Business Act. 

Levin (for Brown (OH)) amendment No. 
1263, to authorize the conveyance of the John 
Kunkel Army Reserve Center, Warren, OH. 

Levin (for Leahy) amendment No. 1080, to 
clarify the applicability of requirements for 
military custody with respect to detainees. 

Levin (for Wyden) amendment No. 1296, to 
require reports on the use of indemnification 
agreements in Department of Defense contracts. 


Levin (for Pryor) amendment No. 1151, to 
authorize a death gratuity and related benefits 
for Reserves who die during an authorized 
stay at their residence during or between 
successive days of inactive-duty training. 


Levin (for Pryor) amendment No. 1152, to 
recognize the service in the reserve components 
of the Armed Forces of certain persons 
by honoring them with status as veterans 
under law. 

Levin (for Nelson (FL)) amendment No. 
1209, to repeal the requirement for reduction 
of survivor annuities under the Survivor 
Benefit Plan by veterans’ dependency and indemnity 
compensation. 

Levin (for Nelson (FL)) amendment No. 
1236, to require a report on the effects of 
changing flag officer positions within the Air 
Force Material Command. 

Levin (for Nelson (FL)) amendment No. 
1255, to require an epidemiological study on 
the health of military personnel exposed to 
burn pit emissions at Joint Base Balad. 

Ayotte (for Blunt/Gillibrand) amendment 
No. 1133, to provide for employment and reemployment 
rights for certain individuals 
ordered to full-time National Guard duty. 

Ayotte (for Murkowski) amendment No. 
1286, to require a Department of Defense inspector 
general report on theft of computer 
tapes containing protected information on 
covered beneficiaries under the TRICARE 
program. 

Ayotte (for Murkowski) amendment No. 
1287, to provide limitations on the retirement 
of C–23 aircraft. 

Ayotte (for Rubio) amendment No. 1290, to 
strike the national security waiver authority 
in section 1032, relating to requirements 
for military custody. 

Ayotte (for Rubio) amendment No. 1291, to 
strike the national security waiver authority 
in section 1033, relating to requirements 
for certifications relating to transfer of detainees 
at U.S. Naval Station Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, to foreign countries and entities. 

Levin (for Menendez/Kirk) amendment No. 
1414, to require the imposition of sanctions 
with respect to the financial sector of Iran, 
including the Central Bank of Iran. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1125 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, there will be 30 
minutes of debate on the Feinstein 
amendment. 

The Senator from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, before 
we begin the debate, and with the 
Senator from California on the floor, 
for the benefit of our colleagues and 
the chairman, there are two pending 
Feinstein amendments, as I understand 
it. The Senator from California has 
agreed to the half hour equally divided 
as the chair just said, and then I understand 
the Senator from California has 
agreed to the second amendment at 4 
p.m.; is that correct? 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. That is correct. 

Mr. MCCAIN. So prior to that, I 
would ask my friend the chairman if 
we could have an hour of debate starting 
at 3 o’clock equally divided before 
the vote at 4:00 on the second Feinstein 
amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Mr. LEVIN. Reserving the right to 
object, I just want to know if the Senator 
from California understands that 


S8096 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

the vote on the second Feinstein 
amendment would be at 4:00 and that 
the debate would begin at 3:00, with 
that hour equally divided. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I do. I have a four 
corners meeting on the Energy and 
Water appropriations bill. That is my 
problem. So the later it is, the better it 
is for me. 

Mr. LEVIN. So is a 4 o’clock vote 
after an hour of debate acceptable? 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Yes. My understanding 
is the House chairman only 
has until 3 o’clock, but I anticipate we 
will take all that time. So I can’t 
change that. 

Mr. LEVIN. So it is agreeable, then, 
that there will be an hour of debate on 
the second amendment starting at 3 
o’clock with a vote at 4 o’clock? 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Yes. 

Mr. LEVIN. I also ask unanimous 
consent that there be no second-degree 
amendments to the Feinstein amendment. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 

objection? 

Mr. CORNYN. I object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec


tion is heard. 

The Senator from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. If we can then—obviously, 
we can call a vote at any particular 
time. So I would suggest again 
that we try to dispose of other amendments 
after the vote on the first Feinstein 
amendment, and then we will try 
to dispose of additional amendments 
between the disposition of the first 
Feinstein amendment and the second 
one, with the hour of debate equally divided, 
and Senator FEINSTEIN can 
begin. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President, 
I rise to ask my colleagues to support 
amendment No. 1125, which will limit 
mandatory military custody to terrorists 
captured outside the United 
States. This amendment is cosponsored 
by Senators LEAHY, DURBIN, UDALL, 
KIRK, LEE, HARKIN and WEBB. 

This is a very simple amendment. It 
adds only one word—the word 
‘‘abroad’’—to section 1032 of the underlying 
bill. I strongly believe if it is not 
broke, do not fix it. The ability to have 
maximum flexibility in the United 
States is very important, and I totally 
support the Executive having that 
flexibility. 

This bill creates a presumption that 
members or parts of al-Qaida or associated 
forces will be held in the military 
system. That is what concerns me because 
the military system has not produced 
very well over the last 10 years. 

I want to take a moment to contrast 
some cases. 

On this chart, we have sentences— 
five of them from military commissions 
and five or six from Federal 
courts. The Federal courts have actually 
convicted over the last 10, 11 years 
not 300 people but 400 people. 

Military commissions are limited to 
some six convictions. Let’s take a look 
at what they are. 

A very famous one is Salim Hamdan 
because he brought a Supreme Court 
case. He was bin Laden’s driver. He was 
acquitted of conspiracy and only convicted 
of material support for terrorism. 
He received a 5-month sentence 
by the military commission and was 
sent back to his home in Yemen to 
serve the time before being released in 
January of 2009. 

No. 2: David Hicks entered into a plea 
on material support for terrorism and 
was given a 9-month sentence, mostly 
served back home in Australia. 

Omar Khadr pled guilty in exchange 
of an 8-year sentence, but he will likely 
be transferred to a Canadian prison. 

Ibrahim Ahmed Mahmoud al-Qosi 
pled guilty to conspiracy and material 
support to terrorism. His final sentence 
was 2 years pursuant to a plea deal. 

Noor Uthman Muhammed pled guilty 
to conspiracy and material support to 
terrorism. His final sentence will be 
less than 3 years pursuant to his plea 
agreement. 

Ali Hamza al-Bahlul received a life 
sentence after he boycotted the entire 
commission process. 

On the other hand, you have sentences 
from the Federal courts. 

You have Richard Reid, the Shoe 
Bomber—life in prison. 

‘‘Blind Sheik’’ Omar Abdel Rahman— 
life in prison for the plot to bomb New 
York City. 

Twentieth Hijacker Zacarias 
Moussaoui—life in prison. 

Ramzi Yousef—life in prison for the 
1993 World Trade Center bombing and 
the Manila Air plot. 

Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab—probably 
life in prison; will be sentenced in 
January 2012. 

Najibullah Zazi—potential life in 
prison. This is the man, with conspirators, 
who was going to bomb the New 
York subway. 

There is definitive evidence that is 
irrefutable that the Federal courts 
have done a much better job than the 
military commissions. 

Why this constant press, that if it is 
not broke we are going to fix it anyway, 
I do not understand. Why the constant 
push to put people in military 
custody rather than provide the flexibility 
so that evidence can be evaluated 
quickly? This person will get life 
in a Federal court versus an inability 
or a problem in a military commission 
or vice versa. I think the Executive 
should have that. 

I think the last 10 years have clearly 
shown that this country is safer than it 
has ever been. Terrorists are behind 
bars where they belong and plots have 
been thwarted, so the system is working. 


This amendment would make clear 
that under section 1032, U.S. Armed 
Forces are only required to hold a suspected 
terrorist in military custody 
when he is captured abroad. All the 
amendment does is add one word—that 
is the word ‘‘abroad’’—to make clear 
that the military will not be roaming 
our streets looking for suspected ter


rorists. The amendment does not remove 
the President’s ability to use the 
option of military detention or prosecution 
inside the United States. 

The administration has threatened to 
veto this bill, and has said: 

[It] strongly objects to the military custody 
provision of section 1032 [because it] 
would tie the hands of our intelligence and 
law enforcement professionals. 

Perhaps, most importantly, addressing 
the issue of this amendment specifically, 
on November 15, Defense Secretary 
Leon Panetta wrote this: 

The failure of the revised text to clarify 
that section 1032 applies to individuals captured 
abroad . . . may needlessly complicate 
efforts by frontline law enforcement professionals 
to collect critical intelligence concerning 
operations and activities within the 
United States. 

The Director of National Intelligence, 
Jim Clapper, also wrote a letter 
on November 23, to say that he opposes 
the detainee provisions of this 
bill because they could—and I quote— 
‘‘restrict the ability of our nation’s intelligence 
professionals to acquire valuable 
intelligence and prevent future 
terrorist attacks.’’ 

The administration suggested this 
change to the Armed Services Committee, 
but it was rejected. So the administration 
has had to threaten a 
veto on the bill. Who knows whether 
they will. I certainly do not know. This 
amendment limiting mandatory military 
custody to detainees outside the 
United States is a major improvement 
to the bill, and I ask my colleagues to 
support it. 

I have a very hard time because I 
have watched detainees carefully as 
part of the Senate Intelligence Committee, 
and we are doing a study on the 
detention and treatment of high-value 
detainees. This has been going on for 2 
years now. It is going to be a 4,000-page 
document, and it is going to be classified. 
But it will document what was actually 
done with each of the high-value 
detainees and what was learned from 
them. It shows some very interesting 
things. But the upshot of all of this is 
that we should keep military custody 
to people arrested abroad and have the 
wide option in this country, which is 
the case now, and not mandate—mandate—
that military custody and military 
commission trial must be for everyone 
arrested in the United States. 

You will hear that anyone who comes 
to the United States who carries out a 
criminal act, a terrorist act under the 
laws of war, should be subject to military 
custody. The problem is, 10 years 
of experience has not worked. How 
many years’ experience do we need? 
How many sentences—six cases—and 
this is all there is in 10 years. 

I know the other side got very upset 
when Abdulmutallab was Mirandized. 
The fact of the matter is, every belief 
is Abdulmutallab is going to do a life 
sentence in a Federal prison, put away 
somewhere in a place where he cannot 
escape and where the treatment is very 
serious. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8097 

I have, again, a hard time knowing 
why if it is not broke we need to fix it, 
and why we need to subject everybody 
who might be arrested in this country 
to a record that is like this: 5-month 
sentence, 9-month sentence, 8-year sentence, 
2-year sentence, 3 years pursuant 
to a plea agreement, and one life 
sentence, when you have 400 cases that 
have been disposed of in a prompt way 
in a Federal court, who are serving 
long sentences in Federal prison. 

I wish to hold the remainder of my 
time and have an opportunity to respond 
to the distinguished chairman 
and ranking member. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I 
wish to yield—— 

Mr. LEVIN. Before the Senator yields 
time to the Senator—— 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Will the Senator refrain 
for 1 minute? While Senator FEINSTEIN 
is here, I understand it is now preferable 
from our leader that the vote be 
at 2 o’clock, not immediately following 
this half-hour debate. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. If that is possible, 
that would be helpful. But it is whatever 
Senators want. 

OK. All right. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Does the Senator want 
to unanimous-consent that? 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the vote, 
which was previously scheduled to 
occur at the end of the half hour of debate 
on this amendment, now be rescheduled 
for 2 o’clock. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, relative 
to the time between that half 
hour and 2 o’clock, that time, hopefully, 
would be used. It will be by me 
for my remarks on this amendment, by 
the way, because after the 30 minutes, 
if it is used totally, I would want an 
opportunity to speak during that time, 
if necessary in morning business. But 
there are other amendments we believe 
can be voice voted during that period 
of time, I believe my friend from Arizona 
would agree. So that time will be 
fruitfully used. But the time now is 2 
o’clock for the vote on that first Feinstein 
amendment. 

I thank my friend. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, the 
vote will be at 2 o’clock. The Senators 
from New Hampshire and South Carolina 
wish to speak. I do not know if the 
chairman wishes to be before or during 
that or in between. But, also, it does 
not change the agreement we have, 
which has not been agreed to but we 
have agreed we will attempt to have a 
vote on the second Feinstein amendment 
at 4 o’clock still. Is that correct? 
We will attempt to do that? 

Mr. LEVIN. It will continue to be our 
intent. It was objected to before. But 

we hope that objection will be removed. 
If it is not removed, we will 
have to have all these votes at the end 
of the day instead of during the day. 

Mr. MCCAIN. So beginning at 3, 
whether we have a unanimous consent 
agreement—because the Feinstein 
amendment is very important—I would 
ask, informally, if we do not have a 
unanimous consent agreement, that we 
have an hour equally divided beginning 
at 3 so we can debate the second Feinstein 
amendment. 

In the meantime, as the chairman 
said, we will try to dispense with voice 
votes and other agreed-upon amendments, 
and perhaps even maybe a recorded 
vote if necessary on one of the 
amendments. 

I would remind my colleagues, we 
run out of time at 6 o’clock this 
evening, and we would rather do it in a 
measured fashion, allowing recorded 
votes or debate before those recorded 
votes, because those pending amendments 
will be voted on after 6 p.m. tonight. 


I hope I did not say anything the 
chairman does not agree with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. No. I agree with what the 
Senator said and what the intent is 
here; that, hopefully, we could have an 
hour debate starting at 3 o’clock. We 
will try to lock that in at a later time, 
after giving folks notice. But if there is 
objection to votes before the time runs 
out, the 30-hour clock runs out, then 
we will have to have all those votes 
after the 30-hour clock runs out, and it 
does not make any sense to do that. 
But if there is going to be an objection, 
then that is the way it will have to be. 

What Senator MCCAIN is saying—and 
I totally agree with him—is, even if we 
are put in that position, which I hope 
we are not, that at least we could use 
the time between now and then for debate 
on those amendments which we 
would have to vote on at a later time. 
I totally agree with my friend from Arizona. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I 
yield 7 minutes to the Senator from 
New Hampshire and 8 minutes to the 
Senator from South Carolina. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Hampshire. 

Ms. AYOTTE. Madam President, I 
rise in opposition to the amendment offered 
by the Senator from California, 
amendment No. 1125. I would start with 
this: We have heard repeatedly—not 
only from the Senator from California 
but also from the Senator from Illinois—
about the number of cases in our 
civilian system where we have tried 
terrorists versus the number of military 
commissions. 

I think there is one thing that needs 
to be clarified upfront here; that one of 
the first acts the President took when 
he came into office was to actually suspend 
all military commissions for 
about 2 years. So to compare the num


ber of cases in our civilian system 
versus the number of military commission 
trials we have had is a false comparison 
when we suspended these trials 
for over 2 years. I want to say that upfront. 


But I think the chart the Senator 
shows actually misses the point of why 
we have this amendment before us; 
that is, we need to gather intelligence. 
When we have captured a member of al-
Qaida who is planning an attack 
against the United States of America, 
the first goal has to be, obviously, getting 
that person away from where he 
can threaten us again to kill Americans, 
but also, just as importantly, to 
gather intelligence to protect America. 
The criminal justice system is set up 
to see that justice is served in a particular 
case, not to see that we have 
the maximum tools in the hands of our 
intelligence officials to gather information. 


Yet it seems to me that if you look 
in the context of Senator FEINSTEIN’s 
amendment 1126 that we have already 
talked about on the floor, she wants to 
limit the administration. The case law 
of our Supreme Court that is going 
back to World War II would take us before 
9/11. And heaven forbid if we had 
an American citizen who was one of the 
participants in an incident such as we 
had occur on our soil on 9/11. Our military 
would not be permitted to hold 
that person and to question them to 
get the maximum amount of information 
and protect our country. 

With respect to this amendment she 
has pending before the Senate, 1125, I 
want to point out that the amendment 
would lead to a very absurd result. Essentially 
what it would say is if you 
are a member of al-Qaida, planning or 
committing an attack against the 
United States of America, a foreigner, 
and you make it to our soil, as the 9/11 
conspirators did who committed that 
horrible attack on our country, then 
you cannot be held in military custody. 
There is no mandatory military custody 
under those circumstances. Yet 
we will hold you in mandatory military 
custody if you are found overseas. So, 
in other words, please, their goal is unfortunately 
to come to the homeland, 
to come to our country to attack us 
here, and in our country we need the 
authority to, in the first instance—the 
presumption should be to hold those individuals 
in military custody so that 
we are not reading them Miranda 
rights. To tell a terrorist: You have the 
right to remain silent is counter to 
what we need to do to protect Americans 
and make sure that—for example, 
I will use the Christmas Day Bomber as 
an example because it has been cited so 
many times here on this floor. 

That day, when he was found on the 
plane, after 50 minutes of questioning, 
he was read his Miranda rights and he 
invoked his Miranda rights and remained 
silent. It was only 5 weeks 
later after we tracked down his parents 
and convinced him to cooperate that he 
actually provided more information. 


S8098 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

We are very fortunate that he was 
only involved in one event, that it was 
not a 9/11-type event where there were 
multiple events on American soil 
planned. But what if after that 50 minutes 
we waited 5 weeks to get more information, 
yet there had been more 
events coming that day? That is what 
is at issue here. Let’s bring ourselves 
back to September 11. What if we had 
caught the individuals who were on one 
of those planes before it took off on 9/ 
11? What if in that instance we would 
not hold those members of al-Qaida in 
military custody that instant to make 
sure that we could get the maximum 
amount of information from them to 
hopefully, God forbid, prevent the lifting 
off of the other flights and what 
happened on that horrible day in our 
country’s history? 

I have to believe that if we were 
standing here immediately after the 
events of 9/11, I do not think we would 
be debating this amendment, deciding 
whether if you make it to our homeland 
we will not hold you in military 
custody in the first instance, to find 
out how much information you have, 
to make sure you are not part of multiple 
attacks on the United States of 
America. 

If the amendment of the Senator 
from California passes, what kind of 
message are we sending to members of 
al-Qaida, foreigners who are planning 
attacks against the United States of 
America? We are laying out, unfortunately 
in my view, a welcome mat to 
say: If you make to it America, you 
will not be held in military custody. 
But if you attack us overseas, then you 
will be held in military custody. Why 
would we create a dual standard where 
we should be prioritizing protecting 
our homeland, protecting the United 
States of America? This leads to an absurd 
result. 

I would hope my colleagues would reject 
the Senator’s amendment to say 
that only those members of al-Qaida 
who do not make it to our homeland to 
attack us right here on our soil will be 
held in the first instance in mandatory 
military custody. Because our goal has 
to be here to protect Americans and to 
make sure we do not create a dual 
standard where if you are captured 
over there, we are going to hold you in 
military custody, but if you are captured 
and if you make it here, you are 
going to be getting greater rights, we 
will process you in the civilian system, 
and we will tell you you have the right 
to remain silent. We should not be telling 
terrorists they have the right to remain 
silent. We should be protecting 
Americans. If we were to pass this 
amendment, it would create an absurd 
standard where you get greater rights 
when are you here on our soil. I think 
that makes us less safe. 

I would urge my colleagues to reject 
both of the Senator’s amendments, 
both 1126 that would deny the executive 
branch the authority to hold 
them—— 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

Ms. AYOTTE. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent for 30 seconds 
to wrap up. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Ms. AYOTTE. Madam President, I 
would ask my colleagues to reject 1126 
as well, which would take away the authority 
of the executive branch as allowed 
by our Supreme Court and would 
make us less safe in this country as 
well as 1125. We have to protect America 
and make sure we get the maximum 
information to prevent future 
attacks on this country. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President, 
how much time do I have remaining? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has 3 minutes remaining of the 
original 30 minutes. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Thank you very 
much. 

Mr. LEVIN. Would the Senator yield 
for a question? 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Not on my time. 
On the Senator’s time. 

Mr. LEVIN. On my time. Quick question. 
After the 30 minutes expires, because 
we are not going to have a vote 
now, there would be additional time 
should the Senator need it after that 30 
minutes. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I appreciate it. I 
may well use it. 

Madam President, I object to the 
statement just made that this will 
make the United States of American 
less safe. Ten years of experience has 
shown it has not. Plot after plot after 
plot has been interrupted. I have served 
on the Intelligence Committee for 11 
years now. We follow this closely. This 
country is much more safe because 
things have finally come together with 
the process that is working. 

The FBI has a national security division 
with 10,000 people. There are 56 
FBI offices. The military does not have 
offices to make arrests around this 
country. This constant push that everything 
has to be militarized—they 
were wrong on Hamdi, they were wrong 
on Hamdan. And it keeps going. And 
that it is terrible to protect people’s 
rights. I do not think that creates a 
safe country. This country is special 
because we have certain values, and 
due process of law is one of those values. 
So I object. I object to holding 
American citizens without trial. I do 
not believe that makes us more safe. I 
object to saying that everything is 
mandatory military commission and 
military custody if anyone from abroad 
commits a crime in this country. The 
administration has used the flexibility 
in a way that they have won every single 
time. There have been no failures. 

The Bush administration as well used 
the Federal courts without failure. 
They have gotten convictions. The 
military commissions have failed, essentially; 
6 cases over 10, 11 years. I 
pointed out the sentences. So to say 
that what we are doing is to make this 
country less safe may be good for a 30-

second sound bite, but it is not the 

truth. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from South Carolina. 

Mr. GRAHAM. I say to my good 
friend from California, you are a patriot. 
You are here for all of the right 
reasons. We just have a strong disagreement 
about where we stand as a 
nation. 

Nobody interrupted the Christmas 
Day Bomber plot. The people on the 
plane attacked the guy before he could 
blow it up. There was no FBI agent 
there. There was no CIA agent there. 
We are lucky, thank God, the passengers 
did it. So there is nothing to 
suggest that our intelligence community 
does not need as many tools as 
possible because the guy got through 
the system. We are lucky as hell the 
bomb did not go off. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Would the Senator 
yield for a question? 

Mr. GRAHAM. The Times Square 
Bomber, nobody interrupted that plot. 
The guy did not know how to set the 
bomb off. We are lucky as hell the 
bomb did not go off. So do not stand 
here and tell me that we have got it 
right, because we have not. And here is 
the point: We never will always get it 
right. I am not saying that as criticism. 
Because we are going to get hit 
again. We cannot be right and lucky all 
of the time. 

To those who are trying to defend us, 
the one thing I do not want to do is 
micromanage the war. Here is the political 
dynamic. You have got people 
on the left who hate the idea of saying 
‘‘the war on terror.’’ If you left it up to 
them, they would never, ever use the 
military, they would always insist that 
the law enforcement model be used because 
they do not buy into the idea of 
we are at war. So you have got one part 
of the country, a minority, that wants 
to criminalize the war. If we ever go 
down that road, woe be unto us. 

You have got people on my side—the 
Senator is right about this. They have 
gone the other way. If you left it up to 
people on my side, there would be a law 
passed tomorrow that you could never, 
ever read a Miranda right to a terrorist 
caught anywhere in the United States. 

I do not agree with that way of 
thinking. To my fellow members of the 

U.S. military, you have not failed at 
Guantanamo Bay. You have not failed. 
Because you sentenced someone to 9 
months to me validated the fact that 
those who are taking an oath to defend 
us, when they are put in a position of 
passing judgment on people accused of 
trying to kill us all, will be fair. 
So when you say a military commission 
tribunal at Guantanamo Bay gave 
a 9-month sentence and that is a failure, 
I say, as a proud member of the 
military, I am proud of the fact that 
you can judge a case based on the facts 
and the law and not emotion. So I am 
very proud of the fact that military 
commissions can do their job as well as 
the civilian courts. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8099 

I say to our Federal prosecutors and 
our Federal juries and our Federal 
judges, I am proud of you too. We 
should be using an ‘‘all of the above’’ 
approach. There are times that Federal 
courts are better than military commissions. 
There are times that military 
commissions are better than Federal 
courts. 

The 1032 language has nothing to do 
about what venue you choose. This provision 
is simple in its concept. It is a 
compromise between those on the left 
who say you must criminalize this war; 
we are not at war; you are going to 
have to use the law enforcement model; 
you can neither gather military intelligence, 
who do not believe that the 
military has a role on the homeland to 
gather intelligence, which is an absurd 
concept, never acknowledged before in 
any other war. 

When American citizens helped the 
Nazis, collaborated with Nazis to engage 
in sabotage, not only were they 
held as enemy combatants during 
World War II, they were tried by military 
commissions. We no longer allow 
American citizens to be tried by military 
commissions. I think that is a reasoned 
decision. But what we do not 
want to do is prevent our intelligence 
community from holding an al-Qaida 
affiliated member and gathering intelligence. 


If an American citizen went to Pakistan 
and got radicalized in a madrasah 
and came back to the United States 
and landed at Dulles Airport and got a 
rifle and started shooting everyone on 
the Mall, I believe it is in our national 
security interests to give our intelligence 
community the ability to hold 
that person and gather intelligence 
about: Is another guy coming? What 
did you do? What future threats do we 
face? And not automatically Mirandize 
him. But if they choose to Mirandize 
him, they can. In this legislation, we 
presume military custody, but it can 
be waived. 

That is the point I am trying to 
make. Senators LEVIN and MCCAIN 
have struck a balance between one 
group that thinks the military can 
only be used and nobody else and another 
group that says we can never use 
the military. We have that balance. If 
we upset this balance, we are going to 
make us not only less safe, the Congress 
is going to do things on our 
watch that we have never done in any 
other war. 

A word of warning to my colleagues: 
If we had a bill on the floor of the Senate 
saying we are not going to read Miranda 
rights to terrorists who are trying 
to kill us all, 70 percent of the 
American people would say: Heck yes. 

I don’t want this bill to come up. I 
believe the people who are best able to 
judge what to do is not any politician, 
they are the experts in the field fighting 
this war. We are saying we can 
waive the presumption of military custody, 
we can write the rules to waive 
it, but we believe we should start with 
that construct. 

Let me read to you what the general 
counsel for the Department of Defense 
said today: 

Top national security lawyers in the 
Obama administration say U.S. citizens are 
legitimate military targets when they take 
up arms with al-Qaida. The government lawyers, 
CIA counsel Stephen Preston, and Pentagon 
counsel Jeh Johnson, did not address 
the Awlaki case. But they said U.S. citizens 
don’t have immunity when they are at war 
with the United States. 

The President of the United States 
was right to target this citizen when he 
went to Yemen to help al-Qaida. I am 
glad we took him out. So would it not 
be absurd that we can kill him, but we 
cannot detain him? If he came here, we 
cannot question him for military intelligence 
gathering. So this is a compromise 
between two forces that are 
well intended but will take us into a 
bad policy position: the hard left who 
wants to say the military has no role 
in protecting us on the homeland and 
some people on my side who say the 
law enforcement community cannot be 
involved at all. 

So Senator LEVIN and Senator 
MCCAIN have constructed a concept 
that provides maximum flexibility, 
gives guidance to the law enforcement 
community, starts with a presumption 
that I like and can be waived and will 
not impede an ongoing investigation. 
That is the part of the bill that was 
changed. 

To my good friend from California, 
we have the balance we have been seeking 
for 5 years. To me, this is what we 
should be doing as a nation—creating 
legislation that allows those who are 
fighting the war the tools they need. In 
this case, we start with the presumption 
of military custody because that 
allows us to gather intelligence. Under 
the domestic criminal law, we cannot 
hold someone and ask them about future 
attacks, because we are investigating 
a crime. Under military law, 
when somebody joins the enemy and 
engages in an act of war against the 
Nation, our military intelligence community 
can hold that person for as 
long as it takes to find out what they 
know about future attacks. If the guy 
gets off of plane and starts killing people 
at the mall, when we grab him and 
he says I want my lawyer, we can say: 
You are not entitled to a lawyer. We 
are trying to gather intelligence. 

At the end of the day, use military 
commission trials, use Federal courts, 
and read Miranda rights when we think 
it makes sense; but we don’t have to 
because the law allows us to hold people, 
under military custody, who represent 
a military threat. The law allows 
us to kill American citizens who 
have joined al-Qaida abroad. That has 
been the law for decades. I hope this 
compromise that CARL LEVIN and JOHN 
MCCAIN have crafted—and I say to 
CARL LEVIN, I have been in his shoes. 
When JOHN and I were on the floor saying 
don’t waterboard people—gather intelligence 
but don’t become like the 
enemy—a lot of Americans believed we 
should waterboard these people, do 

whatever we need to do because they 
are so vicious and hateful. But JOHN 
MCCAIN knows better than anybody in 
this body what it is like to be tortured. 

I wish to protect America without 
changing who we are. It has always 
been the law that when an American 
citizen takes up arms and joins the 
enemy, that is not a criminal act; that 
is an act of war. They can be held and 
interrogated about what they did and 
what they know because that keeps us 
safe. If we take that off the table, with 
homegrown terrorism becoming the 
greatest threat we face, we will have 
done something no other Congress has 
done in any other war. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
original 30 minutes has expired. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Madam President, I 
thank Senators LEVIN and MCCAIN for 
drafting a compromise that I think 
speaks to the best of this country. To 
my colleagues, please don’t upset this 
delicate balance. If you do, you will 
open a Pandora’s box. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I say 
to both Senators while they are on the 
floor, if it had not been for their invaluable 
effort, this legislation would 
not have come about. I thank them for 
their incredibly important contributions, 
using the benefit of the experience 
that both Members have. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President, 
I wonder if I might take a few minutes 
to make a couple statements. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I have 
no objection. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President, 
I wished to say with respect to 
Abdulmutallab, what was very new 
there was that an explosive had been 
invented that could go through a magnetometer 
without detection. It is, to 
my knowledge, the first time anyone 
came into the United States—this 
young Nigerian from a very prominent 
Nigerian family—wearing a diaper that 
had enough of this PETN, this new explosive, 
to blow up the plane. He 
missed in detonation and it caught on 
fire and the fire was put out. 

There have been other incidents of 
trying to smuggle this PETN in cartridges 
of computers and they even had 
dogs going to the airport and they 
could not smell the explosive inside the 
computer cartridge. That was in Dubai. 
It is a very dangerous explosive. It is 
new, and it has been improved. It is 
something we need to be very wary of. 

I also wish to point out that there is 
a public safety exception to Miranda. 
We do not have to Mirandize someone 
or we could continue to question them, 
if there is a public safety risk. So 
Mirandizing an individual is not a 
point in this argument, in my view, because 
we can continue the interrogation. 



S8100 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

What is a point, in my argument, is 
that the FBI now has competence; that 
there is a group of special experts who 
can be flown to a place where someone 
is arrested and do initial interrogation. 
They are specifically trained and, to 
the best of my knowledge, they are effective 
at interrogating. My point is, 
the system is working, and we should 
keep it as it is. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. While Senator GRAHAM is 
on the floor, I ask unanimous consent 
to have a colloquy with him about this 
section 1032, the section at issue. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN. I very much appreciate 
Senator GRAHAM’s remarks. He said the 
provision provides for military custody 
as a beginning or starting point. I wonder 
whether he would agree that not 
only is it a beginning point, but it is 
only for a narrow group of people who 
are determined to be al-Qaida or their 
supporters. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Yes. It is not only a 
presumption that can be waived, based 
on what the experts in the field think 
is necessary; the waiver provision is incredibly 
flexible. You do not have to 
stop an interrogation to get the waiver. 
The executive branch can write the 
procedures. Not only is it a presumption 
that can be waived, it is also limited 
to a very narrow class of people. It 
has nothing to do with somebody buying 
gold. I don’t know about Senator 
LEVIN, but people call me, who are on 
the right, saying: Don’t let Obama put 
me in jail because I think he is a socialist 
or are you going to be able to 
grab me because of my political views? 
I tell my staff to be respectful and read 
them the language. The only people 
who need to worry about this provision 
are a very narrow group of people who 
are affiliated with al-Qaida, engaged in 
hostile acts. 

Mr. LEVIN. Would the Senator also 
agree with me that under the provision 
in the bill, on page 360—we were told 
that civilian trials are preferable to 
military trials, preferable to the detention 
of an unlawful combatant. Does 
the Senator agree that every one of 
those options is open to the executive 
branch and that there is no preference 
stated, one way or the other, for which 
approach is taken to people who are detained? 


Mr. GRAHAM. Not only would I 
agree that 1032 and 1031—the compromise 
language about statement of 
authority to detain and military detaining 
as a presumption—has nothing 
to do with the choice of venue, there 
are people on my side who are champing 
at the bit to prohibit civilian 
courts from being used in al-Qaida-
driven cases; is the Senator familiar 
with that? 

Mr. LEVIN. Yes. 

Mr. GRAHAM. I am of the view that 
we are overly criminalizing the war. I 
don’t want to adopt that policy. There 

is nothing in this language that has 
anything at all to do with how you try 
somebody and what venue you pick. I 
am in the camp—and I think Senator 
LEVIN is too—of an all-of-the-above approach. 
I am proud of our civilian 
courts and our military courts. The 
Senator and I are probably not in the 
best position to determine that. Let’s 
let the experts do it. 

Mr. LEVIN. That is exactly the 
point. This language, when it is described 
as language that says somehow 
or other it works against using civilian 
courts, is from folks who haven’t read 
our language. The language is explicit. 
On page 360, lines 3 through 14 in the 
bill, it says the disposition of a person 
under the law of war may include the 
following—and then they talk about 
detention under the law of war, trial 
under title X, which is the military 
trial, transfer for trial by an alternative 
court or competent tribunal 
having lawful jurisdiction; that is, article 
III courts, and transfer or return of 
custody to the country of origin. There 
are no others. There is no preference 
stated for which of those venues would 
be selected by the executive branch. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Is this a fair statement: 
If it was your goal to prevent 
military commissions from ever being 
used, you didn’t get your way in this 
legislation. If it was your goal to mandate 
that military commissions are the 
only venue to be used, you didn’t get 
your way in this legislation because 
this legislation doesn’t speak to that 
issue at all. 

Mr. LEVIN. That is absolutely true. 
Senator GRAHAM brought to the floor 
something that was stated this morning 
by the top lawyer for the Obama 
administration. I think everybody 
ought to listen to this. There has been 
so much confusion about what is in the 
bill and what isn’t. Right now, there is 
authority to detain U.S. citizens as 
enemy combatants. That authority exists 
right now. That is not me saying 
it, that is the Supreme Court that has 
said it as recently as Hamdi, when they 
said there is no bar to this Nation holding 
one of its own citizens as an enemy 
combatant. That is current law. That 
is the Supreme Court saying that. 
Then, the Supreme Court also said in 
Hamdi that they see no reason for 
drawing a line because a citizen, no 
less than an alien, can be part of supporting 
forces hostile to the United 
States or coalition partners and engaged 
in armed conflict against the 
United States. 

Top lawyers for the President, this 
morning, acknowledged this. I wish 
every one of our colleagues could hear 
what Senator GRAHAM brought to the 
floor. Top national security lawyers in 
the administration say U.S. citizens 
are legitimate military targets when 
they take up arms with al-Qaida. 

Are we then going to adopt an 
amendment that says to al-Qaida that 
if you attack us overseas, you are subject 
to military detention; but if you 
come here and attack us, you are not 

subject to military detention? That is 
what the first Feinstein amendment 
says. 

Mr. GRAHAM. If I may just add—not 
only is that the effect, that would be a 
change in law because the Senator 
agrees with me that in other conflicts, 
prior to the one we are in today, American 
citizens, unfortunately, have been 
involved in aiding the enemy; is that 
correct? 

Mr. LEVIN. I am sorry, I was distracted. 


Mr. GRAHAM. Does the Senator 
agree with me that in prior wars American 
citizens have been involved in aiding 
the enemy of their time? 

Mr. LEVIN. They have, and they 
have been held accountable. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Yes. And the In re 
Quirin case, which Hamdi cited and affirmed, 
was a fact pattern that went as 
follows: We had German saboteurs, 
some living in America before they 
went back to Germany—I think one or 
two may have been an American citizen—
who landed on our shores with a 
plot to blow up different parts of America. 
During the course of their efforts, 
American citizens aided the Nazis. The 
Supreme Court said when an American 
citizen chose to help the Nazis at 
home, on our homeland, they were considered 
to be an enemy belligerent regardless 
of their citizenship, and we 
could detain one of our own when they 
sided with the enemy. 

Mr. LEVIN. There was a naturalized 
citizen involved in Quirin, who was arrested, 
as I understand it, on Long Island, 
and who was charged with crimes 
involving aiding and supporting the 
enemy. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Let’s talk about the 
world in which we live today. 

Mr. LEVIN. And military detention. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Military detention 
and tried by a military commission. 

Mr. LEVIN. Exactly. By the way, I 
think executed. 

Mr. GRAHAM. And executed. The 
Senator from Michigan and I have said, 
along with our colleagues, that military 
commissions cannot be used to try 
American citizens. 

Mr. LEVIN. That is correct. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Our military has said 
they do not want that authority. They 
want to deal with enemy combatants 
when it comes to military commission 
trials. But our military CI and FBI 
have all understood their power to detain 
for intelligence-gathering purposes 
is an important power. It is not 
an exclusive power. 

So let’s talk about today’s threat. 
The likelihood of homegrown terrorism 
is growing. Does the Senator agree 
that the homegrown terrorist is becoming 
a bigger problem? 

Mr. LEVIN. It is an issue, absolutely. 

Mr. GRAHAM. So in a situation 
where an American citizen goes to 
Pakistan and gets radicalized in a 
madrasah, gets on a plane and flies 
back to Dulles Airport, gets off the 
plane and takes up arms against his 
fellow citizens, then goes to the mall 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8101 

and starts randomly shooting people, 
the law we are trying to preserve is 
current law, which would say if the experts 
decide it is in the Nation’s best 
interests, they can hold that American 
citizen as they were able to hold the 
American citizen helping the Nazis and 
gather intelligence. 

That is a right already given. Senator 
FEINSTEIN’s amendment, even 
though I don’t think it is well written, 
could possibly take that away. That is 
1031. But what we are saying is, we 
want to preserve the ability of the intelligence 
community to hold that person 
under the law of war and find out: 
Is anybody else coming? Are you the 
only one coming? What do you know? 
What madrasah did you go to? How did 
you get over? How did you get back? 

We want to preserve their ability to 
hold that person under the law of war 
for interrogation. But we also concede, 
if they think it is better to give them 
their Miranda rights, they can. That is 
what the legislation we create will do. 
Does the Senator agree with that? 

Mr. LEVIN. I do. And the top lawyers 
of the administration acknowledged as 
much this morning when they said U.S. 
citizens are legitimate military targets 
when they take up arms with al-Qaida. 

The provisions we are talking about 
in section 1032, which Senator FEINSTEIN 
would modify so that it is only 
al-Qaida abroad who would be subject 
to this presumption of a military detention, 
but al-Qaida who come here— 
and, by the way, American citizens are 
not even covered under 1032. But the 
foreign al-Qaida fighters who come 
here to attack us are not going to be 
subject to that presumption of military 
detention which, again, can be waived. 
It has nothing to do with in what venue 
they are tried. The administration, the 
Executive, has total choice on that. It 
is just whether we are going to start 
with an assumption if they are determined 
to be al-Qaida, if they are a foreign 
al-Qaida person, they sure as heck 
ought to be subject to that same assumption 
whether they attack us here 
or whether they attack us overseas. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Wouldn’t it be kind of 
hard to explain to our constituents 
that our top lawyers in the Pentagon 
and CIA said today that once an American 
citizen decides to help al-Qaida 
they can be killed in a drone attack, 
but the Congress somehow says, OK, 
but they can’t be detained? 

Mr. LEVIN. I wouldn’t want to try to 
hold that position. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Does the Senator believe 
America is part of the battlefield 
in our global war on terror? 

Mr. LEVIN. It has been made part of 
the battlefield without any doubt. On 
September 11, the war was brought 
here by al-Qaida. How do we suggest 
that a foreign al-Qaida member should 
not be subject to an assumption to 
begin with, if they are determined to 
be al-Qaida, that they are going to be 
detained—that we should not start 
with that assumption—subject to procedures 
which the administration 

adopts. It is totally in their hands. It 
cannot interfere with a civilian interrogation. 
It cannot interfere with civilian 
intelligence. We are very specific 
about it. The procedures are written by 
the executive branch. They can try 
them anywhere they want. 

But if they bring a war here—they 
bring a war here—we are going to create 
an assumption that they can be 
subject, and are going to be subject, to 
military detention. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Well, my belief is that 
most Americans would want our military 
being able to combat al-Qaida at 
home as much as they would abroad. I 
think most Americans would be very 
upset to hear that the military has no 
real role in combatting al-Qaida on our 
own shore, but we can do anything we 
want to them overseas. 

Frankly, there are very good people 
on our side who want to mandate that 
the military has custody, and no one 
else, so we never have to read Miranda 
rights. Quite frankly, there are people 
on the left, libertarians, well-meaning 
people, who want to prevent the idea of 
a person being held under military custody 
in the homeland because they do 
not think we are at war and this is 
really not the battlefield. 

What the Senator and I have done is 
to start with the presumption that focuses 
on intelligence gathering because 
the Senator and I are more worried 
about what they know about future attacks 
than how we are going to prosecute 
them. 

Under domestic criminal law, we 
can’t hold someone indefinitely. The 
public safety law I will talk about in a 
bit, but I say to my good friend from 
California, the public safety exception 
was a very temporary ability to secure 
a crime scene. It was not written regarding 
terrorism. So our law enforcement 
officials cannot use the public 
safety exception to hold an al-Qaida 
operative for days and question them. 
The only way to do that legally is 
under the law of war. In every other 
war we have had that right, and we are 
about to change that. 

Mr. LEVIN. If I can interrupt, we 
have that right abroad against members 
of al-Qaida. But under this approach 
we would not be able to assume 
that military detention at home, 
again, subject to waiver and subject to 
all the other protections we have. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Right. Well, let’s keep 
talking about it because the more we 
talk about it the more interesting the 
whole concept becomes. 

The last time I looked, there were no 
civilian jails overseas. So when we capture 
a terrorist overseas, the only 
place we can detain them is in military 
custody. If they make it at home to 
say the military can’t hold a person 
and interrogate them under the law of 
war, the only way we can hold an al-
Qaida operative who made it to America 
is under the law enforcement 
model. This is not ‘‘Dragnet.’’ We are 
trying to make sure both systems are 
preserved, starting with the presumption 
of intelligence gathering. 

Here is the key distinction. To my 
colleagues who worry about how we 
prosecute someone, that is really the 
least of my concerns. I am worried 
about intelligence gathering. I have 
confidence in our civilian system and 
confidence in our military system. But 
shouldn’t we be concerned, most of all, 
Senator LEVIN, that when we capture 
one of these operatives on our shores or 
abroad that we hold them in a humane 
fashion but a fashion to gather intelligence? 


Imagine if we got one of the 9/11 hijackers. 
Wouldn’t it have been nice to 
have been able to find out if there was 
another plane coming and hold them as 
long as necessary to get that information 
humanely? To say we can’t do that 
makes us a lot less safe. 

Mr. LEVIN. We could do that if we 
captured them in Afghanistan, but here 
we are going to be treating them differently. 
It ought to probably be worse. 
In other words, people who bring the 
war here, it seems to me, at a minimum 
ought to be subject to the same 
rules of interrogation as they would be 
if they were captured and part of al-
Qaida in Afghanistan. 

I don’t understand the theory behind 
this. As a matter of fact, when we 
adopted the authorization for use of 
military force, it would seem to me the 
first people we would want to apply the 
authority of that authorization to 
would be al-Qaida members who attack 
this country. 

Mr. GRAHAM. That is the only group 
subject to this provision; is that correct? 


Mr. LEVIN. The only group that is 
protected. 

Mr. GRAHAM. But this provision we 
wrote only deals with that. 

Mr. LEVIN. Exactly. 

Mr. GRAHAM. No one is going to be 
put in jail because they disagree with 
LINDSEY GRAHAM or Barack Obama. We 
are trying to fight a war. 

I would say something even more 
basic. It is in my political interest, 
quite frankly, being from South Carolina—
a very conservative State, great 
people—to be able to go home and say 
I supported legislation to make sure 
these terrorists trying to come here 
and kill us never hear the words ‘‘you 
have the right to remain silent.’’ Most 
people would cheer. 

It would have been in my interest 
years ago, quite frankly, to have gone 
back and said: You know what. I wish 
the worst thing that could happen to 
our guys caught by these thugs and 
barbarians is that they would get 
waterboarded. They get their heads cut 
off. Yet we have all these people worried 
about how we treat them in trying 
to find out a way to protect the country. 
That would be in my political interest, 
and I am sure it would probably 
be in your political interest to say: 
Wait a minute, we don’t want to militarize 
this conflict. 

At the end of the day, what I wanted 
to say about the Senator and Senator 


S8102 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

MCCAIN is that one of you is a warrior 
who has experienced worse than 
waterboarding and doesn’t want that to 
be part of his country’s way of doing 
business. The other is someone who has 
been a very progressive, solid, left-of-
center Senator for years. I am a military 
lawyer who comes from a very 
conservative State, but I want to fight 
this war—I don’t believe we are fighting 
a crime—but I want to fight it in a 
way that doesn’t come back to haunt 
us. I don’t want to create a system on 
our watch that could come back and 
haunt our own people. I don’t want to 
say that every enemy prisoner in this 
war has to go to trial because what if 
one of our guys is captured in a future 
war? Do we want them to be considered 
a war criminal just because they were 
fighting for the United States? 

So what we are trying to do is to create 
policy that is as flexible as possible 
but understands the difference between 
fighting a war and fighting a crime. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I understand 
there are other Senators who 
may be coming over to speak, and I 
will be happy to yield the floor whenever 
that happens because this is the 
time which is not structured before the 
scheduled vote at 2 p.m. But if I can 
continue, then, until another Senator 
comes to the floor, I want to just expand 
on this one point which has been 
made which has to do with whether 
there is something in this section of 
ours that would allow our military to 
patrol our streets. We have heard that. 

Well, we have a posse comitatus law 
in this country. That law embodies a 
very fundamental principle that our 
military does not patrol our streets. 
There is nothing in section 1032 or anywhere 
else in this bill that would permit 
our military to patrol our streets. 

I think Senator GRAHAM is probably 
more familiar with what I am going to 
say than perhaps any of our colleagues. 
We have a posse comitatus statute in 
this country. It makes it a crime for 
the military to execute law enforcement 
functions inside the United 
States. 

That is unchanged. That law is unchanged 
by anything in this bill. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Does the Senator 
know why that law was created? 

Mr. LEVIN. I think we had a fear a 
couple hundred years ago that that 
might happen. 

Mr. GRAHAM. One of the things you 
learn in military law school is the 
Posse Comitatus Act, because if a military 
member or a unit is asked to assist 
in a law enforcement function, 
that is prohibited in this country. Why 
is that? We don’t want to become a 
military state. We have civilian law 
enforcement that is answerable to an 
independent judiciary. 

The Posse Comitatus Act came about 
after Reconstruction, because during 
the Reconstruction era the Union 
Army occupied the South. They were 
the judge, jury, and law enforcement. 
They did it all because there was no civilian 
law enforcement. After the 

South was reconstructed, a lot of people 
felt that was not a good model to 
use in the future; that we don’t want to 
give the military law enforcement 
power; they are here to protect us 
against threats, foreign and domestic; 
law enforcement activities are completely 
different. 

Now we have National Guard members 
on the border. That is not a law 
enforcement function. That is the national 
security function. But I have 
been receiving calls that say our legislation 
overturns the Posse Comitatus 
Act. Here is why that is completely 
wrong. 

Surveilling an al-Qaida member, capturing 
and interrogating an al-Qaida 
member is not a law enforcement function; 
it is a military function. For the 
Posse Comitatus Act to apply, you 
would have to assume that a member 
of al-Qaida is a common criminal and 
our military has no legal authority 
here at home to engage the enemy if 
they get here. 

You talk about perverse. You would 
be saying, as a Congress, that an al-
Qaida member who made it to America 
could not be engaged by our military. 
What a perverse reading of the Posse 
Comitatus Act. 

The reason al-Qaida is a military 
threat and not a common criminal 
threat is because the Congress in 2001 
so designated. I think most Americans 
feel comfortable with the idea that the 
American military should be involved 
in fighting al-Qaida at home, and that 
is not a law enforcement function. 

Mr. LEVIN. That is why we have very 
carefully pointed this provision 1032 to 
a very narrow group of people—people 
who are determined to be members of 
or associated with al-Qaida. 

Then the question becomes, Well, 
how is that determination made? What 
are the procedures for that? The answer 
is it is left up to the executive 
branch to determine those procedures. 
Can there be any interference with the 
civilian law enforcement folks who are 
interrogating people that they arrest? 
If someone tries to blow up Times 
Square and they are being interrogated 
by the FBI, is there any interference 
with that interrogation? None. We explicitly 
say that there is no such interference. 


What about people who are seeking 
to observe illegal conduct? Is there any 
interference with that? There is none. 
We specifically say those procedures 
shall not interfere with that kind of 
observation, seeking intelligence. We 
are not interfering with the civilian 
prosecution, with the civilian law enforcement 
at all. 

The rules to determine whether 
someone is a member of al-Qaida are 
rules which the executive branch is 
going to write. They can’t say, Well, 
this thing authorizes the interference 
with civilian interrogation when, as a 
matter of fact, it specifically says it 
won’t, and the procedures to determine 
whether somebody is governed by this 
assumption are going to be written by 

the FBI and the Justice Department 
and the executive branch. And, on top 
of that, there is a waiver. 

Mr. GRAHAM. May I add something. 
I want to respond to one of my good 
friends, Senator PAUL, who said, Well, 
that is all good, but sometimes in democracies 
you let in very bad people 
and I don’t want to give broad power to 
the executive branch that could result 
in political persecution. 

I would tell you—Senator LEVIN may 
find this hard to believe—there are people 
on my side who don’t trust President 
Obama and his administration. 
Some of them don’t think he is an 
American. Some of them believe that if 
we pass this law, you are going to give 
the Obama administration the power to 
come on and pick them up because 
they go to a rally somewhere. 

All I can say to Senator PAUL and 
others: I share the concern about unlimited 
executive power. I support the 
Posse Comitatus Act. I don’t support 
the idea that the military can’t fight 
al-Qaida when they come here. We are 
not talking about law enforcement 
functions. 

But here is what happens: If someone 
is picked up as a suspected enemy combatant 
under this narrow window, not 
only does the executive branch get to 
determine how best to do that—do you 
agree with me that, in this war, that 
every person picked up as an enemy 
combatant—citizen or not—here in the 
United States goes before a Federal 
judge, and our government has to prove 
to an independent judiciary outside the 
executive branch by a preponderance of 
the evidence that you are who we say 
you are and that you have fit in this 
narrow window? That if you are worried 
about some abuse of this, we have 
got a check and balance where the judiciary, 
under the law that we have created, 
has an independent review obligation 
to determine whether the executive 
branch has abused their power, 
and that decision can be appealed all 
the way to the Supreme Court? 

Mr. LEVIN. That guarantee is called 
habeas corpus. It has been in our law. 
It is untouched by anything in this 
bill. Quite the opposite; we actually enhance 
the procedures here. The Senator 
from South Carolina has been very 
much a part of the effort here. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Much to my detriment. 


Mr. LEVIN. With all the risks that 
are entailed of being misunderstood 
and all the rest. That is something the 
Senator from South Carolina has engaged 
in, to try to see if we can put 
down what the detention rules are—by 
the way, ‘‘are’’—because as the administration 
itself said in its statement of 
administration policy, the authorities 
codified in this section—authorities 
codified in section 1031 they are referring 
to—those authorities already 
exist. 

Mr. GRAHAM. In this case where 
somebody is worried about being 
picked up by a rogue executive branch 
because they went to the wrong political 
rally, they don’t have to worry 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8103 

very long, because our Federal courts 
have the right and the obligation to 
make sure the government proves their 
case that you are a member of al-Qaida 
and didn’t go to a political rally. That 
has never happened in any other war. 
That is a check and balance here in 
this war. And let me tell you why it is 
necessary. 

This is a war without end. There will 
never be a surrender ceremony signing 
on the USS Missouri. So what we have 
done, knowing that an enemy combatant 
determination could be a de facto 
life sentence, is we are requiring the 
courts to look over the military’s 
shoulder to create checks and balances. 
Quite frankly, I think that is a good 
accommodation. 

Mr. LEVIN. Not only is what the 
Senator said accurate, but we have 
done something else in this bill. There 
is an Executive order that was issued 
some years ago that said there should 
be a periodic review process for folks 
who are being detained under the law 
of war. Because it is so unclear as to 
when this war ends, there is real concern 
about that. What do we do about 
that? So in this bill what we require 
the executive branch to do—and I am 
now quoting from section 1035—is to 
adopt procedures for implementing a 
periodic review process. Those procedures 
don’t exist now. They are not formalized. 
So we want to formalize them 
for the very reason that the Senator 
from South Carolina addressed: because 
we want to make sure that since 
we don’t know when this particular 
war is going to end, it is kind of hard 
to define it and everyone is concerned 
about that, you have got to have review 
procedures. The greatest review 
procedure of all is habeas corpus. But 
there are also requirements in the Executive 
order for a periodic review 
process of whether somebody is still a 
threat or not a threat, for instance. 
The war may still be going on, but the 
person may no longer be a threat. 

Should there be an opportunity for 
the person to say that? Well, there 
should be. There surely should be a regular 
review process. The Senator from 
South Carolina has been very much involved 
in this kind of due process. But 
what we put into our bill—which would 
have been eliminated, by the way, if 
the Udall amendment had been adopted 
yesterday—is a requirement that the 
Executive order’s procedures be adopted, 
because so far we haven’t seen that. 

Mr. GRAHAM. I would say why I 
wanted to do that. I want to be able to 
say—and not to my political advantage. 
But I want to be able to tell people 
post-Abu Ghraib, post-early Guantanamo 
Bay, we have cleaned up our 
act. We are trying to get the balance 
we didn’t have originally. I want to be 
able to tell people we no longer torture 
in America. That is why you and I 
wrote the Detainee Treatment Act, 
with Senator MCCAIN, the War Powers 
Act that clearly bans waterboarding. 

I want to be able to tell anybody who 
is interested that no person in an 

American prison—civilian or military—
held as a suspected member of al-
Qaida will be held without independent 
judicial review. We are not allowing 
the executive branch to make that decision 
unchecked. For the first time in 
the history of American warfare, every 
American combatant held by the executive 
branch will have their day in 
Federal court, and the government has 
to prove by a preponderance of the evidence 
you are in fact part of the enemy 
force. And we did not stop there. Because 
this could be a war without end, 
we require an annual review process 
where each year the individual’s case is 
evaluated as to whether they still 
maintain a threat or they have intelligence 
that could be gathered by 
longer confinement. 

What I would say to our colleagues is 
that we have tried to strike that balance. 
There are a lot of people who 
don’t like the idea that you give these 
terrorists Federal hearings and lawyers 
and all that other stuff. There are a lot 
of people who don’t like the fact that 
we do have now humane interrogation 
techniques. But I like that, because I 
want to win this war on our terms, not 
theirs. So I couldn’t be more proud of 
this bill. 

To my colleagues on the right who 
want to mandate military custody all 
the time and you never can read them 
their Miranda rights, I am sorry, I 
can’t go there. To our friends on the 
left who want to say the military has 
no role in this war at home, I am sorry, 
I can’t go there. Military commissions 
make sense sometimes, sometimes 
Federal courts make sense. 

I will end on this note. This compromise 
that we have come up with I 
think will stand the test of time. Unfortunately, 
most likely radical Islam 
as we know it today is not going to be 
defeated in our lifetime, and I hope to 
have created on my watch as a Senator 
a legal system that has robust due 
process, that adheres to our values, but 
also recognizes we are at threat like 
any other time in recent memory and 
allows us to protect ourselves within 
the values of being an American. I cannot 
tell you how much I appreciate 
working with the Senator and Senator 
MCCAIN, and I think we have accomplished 
that after 10 years of trying. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I yield the 
floor. 

Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent to speak as if in 
morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
COONS). Without objection, it is so ordered. 


EXTENSION OF PAYROLL TAX CUTS 

Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I want 
to speak on these very strange days in 
Washington, in this Congress. 

This esteemed body’s approval rating 
is at 9 percent, and I am having a hard 
time finding the 9 percent. It seems to 
me that the only thing we are working 
hard on is whether we can get the approval 
rating to zero, and I think we 
seem to be going in that direction. 

We fight over political solutions that 
can’t pass and, more importantly, 
won’t solve this Nation’s great problems. 
We fight for political points and 
mistakenly believe that the American 
people care who is up or down. But 
they don’t. 

I didn’t come to Washington for the 
purpose of playing games, taking 
names, or keeping score. That is not 
what I was sent here to do. That is not 
what the people of West Virginia want 
me to do. I came here to fix things and 
to be a part of the solution. I have not 
come here to worry about my next 
election or whether Republicans or 
Democrats are up or down. I came here 
to do what I could to improve life for 
the next generation. I, for one, am willing 
to sacrifice my next election so the 
next generation can win. And if that 
means losing, so be it. 

I rise today to speak about the next 
chapter of this sad state of affairs 
which the American people are forced 
to witness: whether we should extend 
and expand the payroll tax cut that 
will cost more than $240 billion in 1 
year. 

Many accusations are being thrown 
back and forth in the debate over the 
so-called tax cuts or tax increases, depending 
on which side of the fence you 
are on. There is one very basic fact 
that is missing from all of this very 
important conversation: Americans 
pay for one thing with our payroll 
tax—One. Social Security. 

Social Security isn’t just another 
government program. It was established 
in 1935 to provide economic security 
for our Nation’s seniors who 
worked hard and earned their retirement 
benefits. They worked their 
whole life to provide our generation 
and those that will follow with a better 
and greater America. 

Yet at the time when our Nation 
faces a death spiral of debt, when we 
should be talking about how we can 
come together to fix a fiscal nightmare 
that will threaten the very programs 
we care about such as Social Security, 
instead we are talking about undermining 
the very foundation of our 
longest standing retirement program. 
Right now, Social Security is on a collision 
course. By 2037, according to the 
trustees, if we do not do anything, benefits 
for everyone will have to be cut 
by 22 percent. Yet we are digging a 
deeper hole by destabilizing its funding 
with this recommendation. All in return 
for what? A temporary measure 
that has already cost nearly $120 billion 
and has at best created few if any 
jobs. 

In the real world, when policy doesn’t 
work, we stop and try something else. 
Apparently, in Washington we double 
down. Why would we do this? Why 
would we double down on a policy that 
did not work? The answer is simple. 
For the sake of a short-term political 
gain, leaders of both parties and the 
President are willing to fight over how 
we should pay for a failed program that 
jeopardizes the fundamental way that 


(Rectangle comment January 5, 2012 Congressional Record
2/1/2013 12:32:21 AM
On page S8104, December 1, 2011, the Record reads: In the Casey-Reed legislation_this is . . . 
The online Record has been corrected to read: In the Casey-Reid legislation_this is . . . )
(Text Box comment CORRECTION)
S8104 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

we pay for our retirement security in 
this country. That does not make any 
sense to me, and it does not make any 
sense to the good people in West Virginia. 


I know in the coming days we are 
going to hear a lot of political talk 
about extending the payroll tax. What 
they are saying sure sounds good: More 
money in our pockets. In fact, politicians 
will offer assurances that Social 
Security will not be hurt at all. My 
good friend, who will be speaking also 
on this, Senator KIRK from Illinois, is 
going to show a graph that basically 
shows that to be different. 

What you will not hear them say, 
though, is that reducing payroll taxes 
even temporarily would take more 
than $240 billion out of Social Security’s 
funding stream, if we approve the 
President’s proposal. We certainly will 
not hear them say the way they would 
repay those hundreds of billions of dollars 
is through our general revenue 
fund. If we extend the cuts this year, 
what about the next year and the year 
after? When does it stop? When do we 
have the political will to finally say we 
better start paying again for Social Security. 


Our approval rating is at 9 percent, 
and we are rapidly losing the support 
of our family members. Just how many 
Americans really believe that Congress 
will make sure our general fund is solid 
enough to live up to the responsibility 
of funding Social Security? If the payroll 
tax cut is extended as it stands 
this year, the average family in West 
Virginia will pay $14 less per week. For 
a lot of people that is a lot of money. 
But the few West Virginians who even 
realize they are getting help say they 
would gladly give that up in return for 
a reliable Social Security safety net or 
for a real tax reform that cuts rates 
across the board and that ensures that 
every American, especially the 
wealthy, will start paying their fair 
share. They would gladly do that. 

Let me be clear. As a country, we 
cannot expect that Social Security will 
remain secure if we keep telling Americans 
we do not have to pay for it, and 
that is exactly the conclusion people 
will reach if we keep reducing their 
contributions. Social Security is one of 
our highest priorities as a country, and 
we should not let the Federal Government 
undermine Social Security by 
convincing Americans they do not really 
have to pay for it. 

Then, again, there are some in Washington 
who want us to believe the very 
act of reducing our contributions to 
Social Security will spur job creation. 
Unfortunately, the reality is very different. 


We tried the payroll tax cut last 
year, and I supported it. But I will not 
double down on the failed policy, especially 
one that jeopardizes the future 
of Social Security. Truth be told, over 
the last year I traveled more than 
18,000 miles in my State, and I have yet 
to find very many West Virginians who 
even know they are getting a discount, 

let alone business owners who say they 
will hire anybody if we give them a discount 
for 1 year. 

What business owners do tell me is 
that what they want more than anything 
is some certainty and some confidence 
in this economy; that we will 
do the right thing and stabilize this 
economy. Instead, the President and 
leadership in both parties are trying to 
give them more of the same failed policies—
taking steps that will further undermine 
our finances, worsen our debt 
crisis, and jeopardize hundreds of billions 
from Social Security’s regular 
funding stream, all without the reality 
that it will create any jobs. 

With this great Nation now more 
than $15 trillion in debt—it will be $17 
trillion next year and going to $21 trillion 
by 2021—the enormity of this problem 
is that just servicing the debt by 
2021 will be greater than what we spend 
on our Department of Defense to secure 
this great Nation. We cannot afford to 
continue to double down on failed policies. 


As for taxes, don’t get me wrong. I 
don’t want to see Americans paying 
higher taxes. No way. I simply want a 
commonsense tax system that ensures 
everyone pays their fair share, especially 
the wealthy, who have benefitted 
the most from this failed tax system 
we have right now—real tax reform 
that will lower tax rates for everyone 
as we close the loopholes, credits, and 
offsets that allow some corporations 
and some Americans to avoid paying 
their fair share. It is time to stop all of 
that. 

Some will say that it is impossible; it 
cannot be done. I think they are wrong. 
It requires leadership from the White 
House to every corner of Congress, and 
it requires each and every one of us to 
be willing to sacrifice our political futures 
for the Nation’s future. I, for one, 
am willing to do just that. 

This is our moment. At this critical 
moment in our history we must get our 
financial house in order and letting 
Americans believe we do not have to 
pay for Social Security is wrong. It is 
dead wrong. It is the wrong policy. It is 
wrong for our seniors, it is wrong for 
our future, and I will not vote for it, 
period, under any condition. For the 
sake of the next generation we must 
get our fiscal house in order, and we 
can do that if we are willing to make 
difficult decisions. 

I will not vote for either of these two 
proposals to extend the payroll tax 
cuts. Looking forward for the sake of 
our Nation, I hope we will begin to 
work on a proposal that makes the 
hard decisions while also protecting 
the programs and commitments we 
value as a nation. For myself, and I believe 
many of my colleagues, there is a 
bipartisan path forward that can help 
save this Nation, and I have my good 
colleague, the Republican from Illinois, 
who is going to speak to it also. 

I believe the best path forward is 
based on the framework and recommendations 
outlined in the Bowles-

Simpson proposal. When those recommendations 
were laid out a year ago 
today—this is the anniversary today—I 
had been a Senator for less than a 
month—brandnew, less than 1 month. 
What I saw in that report gave me 
great hope. It gave me hope that we 
could identify our problems, which we 
did—the fiscal responsibility that we 
had—and willingly tackle them together. 
So I was on a high for that one 
short period. 

As a brandnew Member, I was so encouraged 
that such a responsible, bipartisan 
group of people, put together 
by the President, offered a no-holds-
barred report on our fiscal situation 
and some pathways to fix it. Then the 
proverbial air came out. Not only did 
the President and his administration 
walk away from these bipartisan proposals, 
but leadership in both Chambers 
of Congress failed to pick up this 
report and run with it. 

Here we are a year later. If anything, 
our problems are worse. We are going 
to be forced to make deeper cuts than 
we wanted to, all because our leadership 
would not confront the enormous 
problems we face with a comprehensive 
long-term solution. But the Bowles-
Simpson plan is still the only proposal 
that enjoys strong bipartisan support. 
It started as a bipartisan commission. 
It grew in numbers and it is still growing. 
It has a responsible manner to balance 
this problem we have. 

It is not perfect; no plan is. I do not 
agree with everything it proposes. But 
no plan can be everything to everyone. 
With today being the 1-year anniversary 
of the unveiling of that proposal, 
I am urging, and will continue to urge, 
our President and the leadership of 
both Chambers to support any and all 
efforts—not only to pick up this report, 
but also to put the resources behind 
drafting and passing this legislation 
into law. I ask we all remember the 
great opportunity we have before us to 
do what is right. 

I do not want to be part of the first 
generation—and I know the Presiding 
Officer doesn’t want to be part, and I 
know my good friend from Illinois 
doesn’t want to be part of the first generation 
that leaves this Nation in 
worse shape for the next generation. I 
don’t believe this President or any 
Member of Congress wants to fail the 
next generation either. 

With that, I want to turn over my 
time to my colleague from Illinois. 

Mr. KIRK. If I could engage the Senator 
in a colloquy, this is a chart that 
shows the legislation we are considering 
today. What it shows is the tremendous 
hit to the tax that supports 
Social Security. This is the Old Age 
Survivors Disability Act. It is a $240 
billion hit to the funding to support 
Social Security. We both are going to 
vote no on both pieces of legislation 
today because we do not think seniors 
should take this level of hit. 

In the Casey-Reid legislation—this is 
where the so-called millionaires’ tax 
comes in—it only refunds what Social 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8105 

Security needs to the level of 7 percent 
in 2013. In fact, according to one analysis, 
we may trigger the end of the 
debt limit before the election if we pass 
this because of the $246 billion we will 
have to borrow temporarily until the 
long stretch of this revenue comes in. 

We are about to do a chart with the 
Republican alternative. It has the same 
long payout there, and tremendous hit 
to Social Security. In this time of all 
these political bills, I think Senator 
MANCHIN and I are both saying let’s not 
do the political thing anymore. We 
both voted for the payroll tax deduction 
legislation before because the 
country was in crisis, and we wanted to 
try this out. But this is revenue that 
supports the benefits that Social Security 
recipients depend on, and we cannot 
continue to try to run this program 
without that revenue. So I think this 
holiday should end. I think this revenue 
should not be foregone. I do not 
think seniors should be faced with a 
trust-us policy that will pay them 
back. I would actually say even the political 
vote is to vote against this so 
you are for Social Security and for 
making sure this payment is continued. 


I commend the Senator. I think we 
should exactly follow this policy of no 
on both of these because, if you vote 
no, you are supporting Social Security. 

One other thing: I ask AARP to 
speak more clearly on this issue. AARP 
currently told my staff that they are 
neutral on this. I urge AARP members 
to contact AARP and say: Defend Social 
Security revenues. Make sure 
there is enough in the kitty for our 
benefits. We know that 10,000 Americans 
a day are now qualifying for Social 
Security. We know this is an age of 
no free lunch. We want to make sure 
the revenues are there not just today 
but tomorrow because seniors absolutely 
depend on that. 

With that, I yield back to my colleague. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Let the 
record show the Senator sought recognition, 
unanimous consent to proceed 
to a colloquy and did so without 
objection. 

Mr. KIRK. I thank the Chair. 

Mr. MANCHIN. I say to my friend 
from Illinois, what he says is absolutely 
correct. We have so many people, 
especially in West Virginia and Illinois, 
who depend on Social Security. 
In fact, in West Virginia, for 62 percent 
of the people who receive Social Security 
it is their major funding mechanism. 
It is how they live day to day. 
They have told me: Do not touch our 
Social Security Program, our core values 
of Social Security, what it does for 
us. If we pass this, not only do we 
touch it, we jeopardize its solvency in 
the long term. 

If you believe we are going to be responsible 
enough to pay for this in the 
10 years outgoing, then we have some 
beach-front property in West Virginia 
we would love to interest you in. 

Mr. KIRK. I would say, this is a very 
long payout, both under the majority 

and minority piece of legislation. I am 
hoping enough Members say no to both 
pieces of legislation so we defend Social 
Security, and I commend the Senator. 


Mr. MANCHIN. I think we are very 
strong in support of the Bowles-Simpson, 
basically, the template that it laid 
out. It is the only one that is bipartisan. 
As you can see, it stayed bipartisan 
with the Senator and I, and it 
will remain bipartisan. It has a tax reform, 
but everyone pays a fair share. 
The very wealthy who have escaped 
paying because of the flawed tax policies 
would now start paying if we had 
real tax reform—not increased rates 
but just their fair share. That is what 
we ask. 

Mr. KIRK. With that, I yield and 
commend the Senator. We are hoping 
for two ‘‘no’’ votes because we think 
those are the votes that support Social 
Security and its continued revenue. 

Mr. MANCHIN. I thank the Bowles-
Simpson committee, Mr. Bowles and 
Mr. Simpson, for what they have done 
a year ago, bringing it to our attention, 
bringing a pathway to fixing the 
financial problems we are dealing with. 
We are concerned about the next generation 
more so than our next election. 
That is what we were sent here to do. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1414 

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I 
rise to urge my colleagues to pass 
amendment No. 1414 that I have offered 
with my distinguished colleague from 
Illinois, Senator KIRK, to strengthen 
sanctions against Iran that go to the 
heart of the regime’s ability to finance 
its nuclear ambitions. This is a broad-
based effort, a bipartisan effort, and 
one that needs the Senate’s attention 
and passage. 

In my view, we have to follow the 
money, and this amendment does exactly 
that. If we are serious about limiting 
Iran’s ability to finance its nuclear 
ambitions, this amendment is essential 
to that effort. It is a serious attempt 
to sanction the Central Bank of 
Iran, which is known to be complicit in 
Iran’s nuclear efforts. 

If we fail to close loopholes and sanction 
funding mechanisms for Iran’s nuclear 
development programs, we would 
be like a rancher who left the barn 
open and wonders why the horses are 
gone. To not pass this amendment is 
leaving the door open to Iran’s runaway 
nuclear ambitions. We cannot 
and we must not let that happen. 

I know the administration has expressed 
their concerns about this 
amendment—an amendment which, by 
the way, has come about as a result of 
the administration asking us to work 

with them, and a bipartisan effort has 
achieved a narrower, more defined, tailored 
effort to bring the maximum 
sanctions upon Iran with the minimum 
consequence to both the United States 
and our allies across the globe. But in 
the absence of congressional action 
over the last 15 years, starting with the 
Iran and Libya Sanctions Act and ending 
with CISADA, I have to wonder 
what we would be doing to stop Iran’s 
drive to obtain nuclear weapons, if it 
were not for the Congress’s intercession 
and actions. 

I recognize this administration has 
done more than any prior administration 
in terms of using those tools the 
Congress has given them, but in my 
view, we have not done enough. 

In a letter from Secretary Geithner 
today, the administration recognizes 
that ‘‘Iran’s greatest economic resource 
is its export of oil. Sales of 
crude oil line the regime’s pockets, 
sustain its human rights abuses, and 
feed its nuclear ambitions like no other 
sector of the Iranian economy.’’ That 
is what Secretary Geithner had to say 
in his letter. That is pretty compelling 
as to why this amendment needs to 
pass, that is why I have worked with 
Senator KIRK to pass this important 
amendment, and that is why we urge 
our colleagues to pass it. 

To those who have raised concerns 
about the impact of the amendment on 
our allies and our multilateral diplomacy 
efforts, I would note that the European 
nations and the French in particular 
are already considering their 
own Iranian oil embargo. This is not, 
by the way, an oil embargo, but they 
are considering something far more 
significant—their own Iranian oil embargo. 
They recognize that the Iranian 
nuclear program has a short fuse. Published 
reports say it may be as short as 
1 year, and the time to act is now. 
They recognize that the Shahab missile 
would not only be capable of hitting 
the State of Israel but could easily hit 
a European nation—a European nation 
which obviously would be a NATO ally. 

As for other countries, frankly, I am 
not concerned with how the Chinese 
feel about our amendment given that 
they are currently one of greatest violators 
of our current sanctions regime 
already. The evidence is clear. 

I have been made aware that several 
major energy traders continue to make 
prohibited sales of refined petroleum to 
Iran. Yet our response has been to 
sanction the front companies rather 
than the major figures behind these 
sales. 

China also continues to be a major 
Iranian trading partner and has agreements 
with Iran for nearly $40 billion 
in investments to develop Iranian oil 
fields. China has reportedly directed 
the China National Offshore Oil Corporation 
and National Petroleum Corporation 
to slow their work in Iran, 
presumably to allow them to make the 
argument to Washington to hold off on 
sanctions. 


S8106 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

We must ask, why has the administration 
been reluctant to sanction Chinese 
companies when there is ample 
evidence that they are violating our 
own existing laws and there is precedent 
for us sanctioning Chinese companies 
for nuclear and weapons proliferation 
outcomes? 

Mr. MCCAIN. Would the Senator 
yield for a question? 

Mr. MENENDEZ. I would be happy to 
yield. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Is it the Senator’s impression 
that action by the United Nations 
Security Council is pretty dim 
given the stated positions of Russia 
and China on this issue? 

Mr. MENENDEZ. The Senator, in my 
view, is right, considering that they 
both have veto power at the Security 
Council. It seems to me that they are 
not likely allies in helping us pursue 
this course. 

Mr. MCCAIN. So then it really makes 
a more compelling argument to those 
who may be wavering on this amendment 
that there is a clear record on the 
part of China and Russia in the U.N. 
Security Council that we cannot expect 
a Security Council vote, but perhaps 
we could expect other nations to follow 
suit once the United States leads on 
this issue. 

Mr. MENENDEZ. I believe the Senator 
is right. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Senator. 

Mr. MENENDEZ. The November 8 
IAEA report underscores the need for 
this amendment. It undeniably confirms 
that there is a military component 
to Iran’s nuclear program; that 
Iran has not suspended its Iranian enrichment 
and conversion activities at 
declared facilities and is seeking to develop 
as many as 10 new enrichment facilities; 
that there are undisclosed nuclear 
facilities in Iran; that Iran is 
seeking back channels to acquire dual-
use technology and materials; that 
Iran is experimenting and testing detonators 
and initiation systems critical 
to creating a nuclear weapon; and that 
Iran may be working on an indigenous 
design for a nuclear weapon, including 
a nuclear payload small enough to fit 
on Iran’s long-range Shahab missile, a 
missile capable of reaching Israel. 
These public revelations have led to an 
increase in multilateral sanctions on 
the Iranian regime, which I applaud, 
but given what appears to be a shortening 
timeline until Iran has a potential 
nuclear weapon, it would seem we 
are not doing enough fast enough. 

Iran has adapted to CISADA and has 
negotiated workarounds to constraints 
on its financial transactions and its 
ability to acquire requisite materials 
to advance its clandestine program. 
This amendment will prevent those 
workarounds. It will impose sanctions 
on those international financial institutions 
that engage in business activities 
with the Central Bank of Iran— 
particularly in the pursuit of petroleum 
products—with the exception of 
transactions that include medicine and 
medical devices. 

It is a timely amendment that follows 
the administration’s decision last 
week designating the entire Iranian 
banking sector as a primary money 
laundering concern and a threat to 
government and financial institutions, 
noting Iran’s illicit activities, including 
its pursuit of nuclear weapons, its 
support of terrorism, and its efforts to 
deceive responsible financial institutions 
and evade sanctions. In fact, the 
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network 
of the Department of the Treasury 
wrote: 

The Central Bank of Iran, which regulates 
Iranian banks, has assisted designated Iranian 
banks by transferring billions of dollars 
to those banks in 2011. In making these 
transfers, the CBI attempted to evade sanctions 
by minimizing the direct involvement 
of large international banks with both CBI 
and designated Iranian banks. 

The Under Secretary of the Treasury 
for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, 
David Cohen, wrote: 

Treasury is calling out the entire Iranian 
banking sector, including the Central Bank 
of Iran, as posing terrorist financing, proliferation 
financing, and money laundering 
risks for the global financial system. 

I don’t know how much more compelling 
even the administration’s own arguments 
are. As I have said on this 
floor, Iran’s conduct threatens the national 
security of the United States 
and its allies. The complicit action of 
the Central Bank of Iran, based on its 
facilitation of the activities of the government, 
its evasion of multilateral 
sanctions directed against the Government 
of Iran, its engagement in deceptive 
financial practices and illicit 
transactions, and, most important, its 
provision of financial services in support 
of Iran’s effort to acquire the 
knowledge, materials, and facilities to 
enrich uranium and to ultimately develop 
weapons of mass destruction, 
threatens regional peace and global security. 


This amendment will starve the 
beast. It requires the President to prohibit 
transactions of Iranian financial 
institutions that touch U.S. financial 
institutions. To ensure that we don’t 
spook the oil markets, transactions 
with Iran’s Central Bank in petroleum 
and petroleum products would only be 
sanctioned if the President makes a determination 
that petroleum-producing 
countries other than Iran can provide 
sufficient alternative resources for the 
countries purchasing from Iran and 
that the country declines to make significant 
decreases in the purchases of 
Iranian oil. 

This bipartisan amendment has been 
carefully crafted to ensure the maximum 
impact on Iran’s financial infrastructure 
and ability to finance terrorist 
activities and to minimize the 
impact on global economy. It has the 
best chance of helping us achieve a 
peaceful solution to this threat. I urge 
my colleagues to support this amendment. 


Mr. MCCAIN. May I ask one additional 
question? 

Mr. MENENDEZ. I would be happy to 
do so. I know we have a vote in 5 min


utes, and I want the distinguished Senator 
from Illinois to have an opportunity 
to speak. 

Mr. MCCAIN. These questions are for 
either Senator. 

Is it true that in this legislation, 
there is a national security waiver, 
that the President can waive the provisions 
of this bill if he feels it is in the 
national interest? Also, how do you respond 
to the argument being put forward 
that this could destroy the 
world’s financial system if this legislation 
would be put into effect? 

Mr. MENENDEZ. The answer is, yes, 
there is a national security waiver, 
and, no, we do not believe the world’s 
financial system will be destroyed. The 
fact is, as my distinguished colleague 
from Illinois has said, it is a choice between 
a $300 billion economy in Iran 
and a $14 trillion economy in the 
United States. I think that choice 
would be very clear for countries as 
they choose to do so, and the Europeans 
are already on a march on their 
own because they understand the risk 
to them. 

I yield the floor, and I hope to hear 
from my colleague from Illinois. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Illinois. 

Mr. KIRK. I rise in very strong support 
of the Menendez-Kirk amendment. 

I wish to compliment the Senator 
from New Jersey for an outstanding 
performance in the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee today in which he 
called on the representatives of our 
government to move quicker on this. 

We saw the Baha’is radicals of Iran 
overrun the embassy of our allies in 
the United Kingdom. We saw the British 
Prime Minister just announce that 
he was removing all Iranian diplomats 
from the United Kingdom. We saw the 
Government of Italy announcing that 
they were suspending some diplomatic 
activities. We have seen a whole number 
of actions by the EU now to join 
with us on sanctions. 

I will just say with regard to this 
amendment that it has now been cosponsored 
formally by 46 Senators: 
MENENDEZ, KIRK, BARRASSO, 
BLUMENTHAL, BLUNT, BOOZMAN, BROWN 
of Massachusetts, BROWN of Ohio, 
CARDIN, CASEY, COLLINS, COONS, CRAPO, 
FEINSTEIN, FRANKEN, GILLIBRAND, GRAHAM, 
HATCH, HELLER, JOHANNS, KLOBUCHAR, 
KYL, LAUTENBERG, LEE, LIEBERMAN, 
MANCHIN, MERKLEY, MIKULSKI, 
MORAN, MURKOWSKI, NELSON of Florida, 
NELSON of Nebraska, PORTMAN, PRYOR, 
RISCH, ROBERTS, SCHUMER, SNOWE, STABENOW, 
TESTER, THUNE, TOOMEY, VITTER, 
WARNER, WHITEHOUSE, and WYDEN. 
These 46 Members are on the shoulders 
of the 92 who signed the Kirk-Schumer 
letter in August. When in these partisan 
times do we have all but eight 
Senators agreeing on a policy? 

I will just note, as Senator MENENDEZ 
and Senator MCCAIN pointed out, the 
administration is somewhat worried 
about this amendment, but Senator 
MENENDEZ correctly provided flexibility 
to the administration by saying, 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8107 

No. 1, if the energy information agency 
says oil markets are tight and issues a 
report on the affected oil markets, 
these sanctions could be suspended for 
a time. On top of that one waiver, 
there is a second waiver for the national 
security of the United States 
that the President could have that 
kind of flexibility. 

So with flexibility, with bipartisan 
support, with outrageous activity by 
Iran, in the face of the IAEA report, 
moving toward a nuclear weapon, with 
the danger we see from that government 
and Hezbollah and Hamas against 
our allies in Lebanon and Israel, with 
the plot announced by the Attorney 
General of the United States to blow 
up a Georgetown restaurant in an effort 
to kill the Saudi Arabian Ambassador, 
with the plight of 330,000 Baha’is 
oppressed by that country, with someone 
like Nasrin Sotoudeh, the lawyer 
for Shirin Ebadi—the Noble Prize laureate’s 
lawyer was thrown in jail just 
for representing that client—for all 
these reasons, this is the right amendment, 
at the right time, sending the 
right message in the face of a very irresponsible 
regime. 

I yield back and thank the Senator 
for offering this well-timed amendment. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1093 WITHDRAWN 

Mr. MCCAIN. On behalf of Senator 
INHOFE, I ask to withdraw amendment 
No. 1093. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, very 
briefly I would like to thank the Senators 
for their leadership on this issue. 
There is a threat to the security of the 
world posed by the Islamic nation of 
Iran. This is much needed legislation. 

I think it is important to note, as 
they did, that there is a national security 
waiver given to the President of 
the United States, and also we cannot 
expect a lot of help considering the 
membership of the United Nations Security 
Council and Russia and China’s 
unwillingness to act on behalf of reining 
in this path that Iran is on to the 
acquisition and the possibility and the 
capability for the use of nuclear weapons. 


I congratulate both sponsors of the 
amendment, and I hope we can get a recorded 
vote. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Colorado. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1125 

Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. President, 
I wanted to rise at this time in 
support of the Feinstein amendment 
No. 1125, which would modify the requirement 
that the Armed Forces detain 
suspected terrorists by adding the 
word ‘‘abroad’’ to ensure that we aren’t 
disrupting domestic counterterrorism 
efforts. And I would like to correct the 
record because some of the opponents 
of the amendment have stated that by 
inserting the word ‘‘abroad,’’ we would 

be preventing the military from detaining 
al-Qaida terrorists on U.S. soil, 
and that is simply not true. 

The President knows and my colleagues 
know that I am not comfortable 
with the detention provisions 
in this bill because I think they will 
undermine our fight against terrorism. 
But this would be an important 
change, a narrowly focused change in 
the provisions that have already been 
put on the floor. 

Mr. President, is the vote imminent? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
SANDERS). It is. 

Mr. UDALL of Colorado. Mr. President, 
I rise in support of the Feinstein 
amendment No. 1125, which would modify 
the requirement that the Armed 
Forces detain suspected terrorists by 
adding the word ‘‘abroad’’ to ensure we 
are not disrupting domestic counter-
terrorism efforts. I wish to correct the 
RECORD, because some of the opponents 
of this amendment have stated that by 
inserting the word ‘‘abroad’’ we would 
be ‘‘preventing the military from detaining 
al Qaeda terrorists on U.S. 
soil.’’ This is simply not true. 

I am not comfortable with the detention 
provisions in this bill because I 
think they will undermine our fight 
against terrorism. While section 1031 of 
this legislation will authorize the military 
to detain terrorists, section 1032 
requires that the military detain certain 
terrorists even if the FBI or local 
law enforcement is in the middle of a 
larger investigation that would yield 
the capture of even more dangerous 
terrorists. 

This may disrupt the investigation, 
interrogation, and prosecution of terrorist 
suspects by forcing the military 
to interrupt FBI, CIA, or other 
counterterrorism agency operations— 
against each of these organizations’ 
recommendations, including the military’s. 
This would be an unworkable 
bureaucratic process that would take 
away the ability to make critical and 
split-second decisions about how best 
to save Americans lives. That is why 
the director of the FBI and the director 
of National Intelligence have strongly 
opposed the underlying provisions. 

The Feinstein amendment would simply 
provide the needed flexibility for 
the FBI and other law enforcement 
agencies to work to fight and capture 
terrorists without having to stop and 
hand over suspects to the military. 
However, even with the Feinstein 
modification, with the authorization in 
section 1031 the military could still detain 
a suspected terrorist but would 
not have to step in and interrupt other 
domestic counterterrorism operations. 

In other words, the Feinstein amendment 
would do nothing to prevent the 
military from acting, it would simply 
take away the mandate that they interrupt 
other investigations. I still do 
not believe we should enshrine in law 
authorization for the military to act 
on U.S. soil, but to argue that adding 
‘‘abroad’’ to section 1032 would take 
away from the authority given in this 
bill is just wrong. 

Clarifying that the military is only 
required to detain suspected terrorists 
abroad is the best approach to address 
the FBI’s concerns about this legislation, 
and it is the best approach for our 
national security. What we are doing is 
working. We should not take away the 
flexibility that is necessary to keep us 
safe. 

Passing this amendment would be 
welcome news to Secretary of Defense 
Panetta, Director of National Intelligence 
Clapper, FBI Director Mueller, 
and CIA Director Petraeus—who oppose 
the intrusive restrictions on their 
counterterrorism operations that the 
underlying bill would create. 

The other side has argued that this is 
fundamentally about whether we are 
fighting a war or a crime. I think that 
is a false choice and it does a disservice 
to our integrated intelligence community 
that is fighting terrorism successfully 
using every tool it possibly can. 
We can debate this in theoretical, 
black-and-white terms about whether 
this is a war or a crime. Or we can get 
back to the business of taking on these 
terrorists in every way we know how, 
including by using our very effective 
criminal justice system. At the end of 
the day, it is about protecting Americans, 
protecting this country. Why on 
Earth would we want to tie our hands 
behind our back? 

Our national security leadership has 
said the detention provisions in this 
bill could make us less safe. We should 
listen to their concerns and pass this 
amendment to preserve the U.S. Government’s 
current detention and prosecution 
flexibility that has allowed 
both the Bush and Obama Administrations 
to effectively combat those who 
seek to do us harm. 

Again, I encourage my colleagues to 
support the Feinstein amendment, to 
keep faith with the Directors of the 
FBI, the DNI, the Secretary of Defense, 
and our Attorney General, who say 
these provisions could create unwanted 
complications in our fight against terrorism. 


Let’s adopt the Feinstein amendment. 
It will help us win the war 
against terror. 

Thank you, Mr. President. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate will now 
proceed to a vote on the Feinstein 
amendment No. 1125. 

Mr. BARRASSO. I ask for the yeas 
and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The question is on agreeing to the 
amendment. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk called the roll. 

The result was announced—yeas 45, 
nays 55, as follows: 

[Rollcall Vote No. 213 Leg.] 

YEAS—45 

Akaka Bennet Blumenthal 
Baucus Bingaman Boxer 


S8108 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

Brown (OH) Kerry Reed 
Cantwell Kirk Reid 
Cardin Klobuchar Rockefeller 
Carper Kohl Sanders 
Conrad Lautenberg Schumer 
Coons Leahy Shaheen 
Durbin Lee Tester 
Feinstein Menendez Udall (CO) 
Franken Merkley Udall (NM) 
Gillibrand Mikulski Warner 
Hagan Murray Webb 
Harkin Nelson (FL) Whitehouse 
Johnson (SD) Paul Wyden 
NAYS—55 
Alexander Graham McConnell 
Ayotte Grassley Moran 
Barrasso Hatch Murkowski 
Begich 
Blunt 
Heller 
Hoeven 
Nelson (NE) 
Portman 
Boozman 
Brown (MA) 
Burr 
Casey 
Chambliss 
Coats 
Coburn 
Cochran 
Hutchison 
Inhofe 
Inouye 
Isakson 
Johanns 
Johnson (WI) 
Kyl 
Landrieu 
Pryor 
Risch 
Roberts 
Rubio 
Sessions 
Shelby 
Snowe 
Collins Levin Stabenow 
Corker Lieberman Thune 
Cornyn Lugar Toomey 
Crapo Manchin Vitter 
DeMint McCain Wicker 
Enzi McCaskill 

The amendment (No. 1125) was rejected. 


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I move to 
reconsider the vote. 

Mrs. BOXER. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. I suggest the absence of 
a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I rise 
today in support of the 2012 National 
Defense Authorization Act, the critical 
piece of legislation we are now working 
on that will strengthen our national 
security, provide for our troops and 
their families, and improve oversight 
of American taxpayer dollars. 

Over the last half century, the Senate 
has successfully passed a defense 
authorization bill without fail every 
year. This strong tradition of bipartisanship 
continues today under the 
joint leadership of Senators LEVIN and 
MCCAIN. 

As a member of the Armed Services 
Committee, I thank the chairman and 
ranking member, as well as the majority 
and minority staff, for their dedicated 
and tireless effort as we work to 
bring this important legislation to the 
floor. 

Throughout this yearlong process, 
our committee takes on extremely difficult 
and contentious security issues, 
and at times we have our differences. 
However, we take on these disagreements 
in a respectful and openminded 
fashion, driven by a strong commitment 
to cooperation and compromise. 

Bipartisanship has never been easy, but 
it works, as the Armed Services Committee 
has proven year in and year out. 
I hope all of our committees in the 
Senate can work in this kind of cooperative 
fashion, especially these days 
when budget constraints are so difficult. 


No department of the Federal Government 
is immune from the severe fiscal 
challenges facing our Nation. That 
includes our Department of Defense. 
We are cutting $27 billion from the 
President’s budget request in this bill, 
nearly $43 billion from the last year’s 
authorization. We need to find ways to 
maximize our investments in defense 
by aggressively eliminating unneeded 
and underperforming programs and we 
need to streamline our business practices 
and invest strategically in future 
technology. 

The bill before us helps ensure that 
our troops, especially the 96,000 serving 
in Afghanistan as well as their families, 
continue to receive the care and 
support they deserve. It provides hard-
earned pay raises for all uniformed 
military personnel, funding for critical 
equipment, and training required for 
our men and women to succeed on the 
battlefield. 

The Defense authorization bill before 
us makes important investments in defense, 
science, and technology. As I 
know the Chair agrees, we need to do 
more to prepare the next generation of 
scientists and engineers who will be so 
important to maintaining our Nation’s 
superior technological edge. The current 
bill makes a small downpayment 
on this important effort, and I intend 
to continue to fight for more investment 
as we move forward. 

The bill also includes a number of 
provisions that will enable the Defense 
Department to lead in the creation of a 
more secure energy future for our military 
and for our country. As the single 
largest consumer of energy in the 
world today, the U.S. military has 
taken some initial steps on energy efficiency, 
energy mitigation, and the use 
of renewable and clean energy alternatives. 
But we still have a very long 
way to go. I look forward to continuing 
to work with the Department of Defense 
to take advantage of more energy 
savings opportunities in the future. 

This year’s Defense authorization bill 
also includes significant resources to 
fight nontraditional threats, including 
the proliferation of nuclear, chemical 
and biological weapons and the growing 
challenge posed by cyber warfare. 
In addition, I am pleased a number of 
provisions I have been working on are 
currently included in the bill. 

First, we are extending the Small 
Business Innovation Research Program 
for the next 8 years. This is critical to 
keep our defense manufacturing base 
and our small business innovators 
strong and competitive. This is a provision 
I have worked on. I commend Senators 
LANDRIEU and SNOWE for their 
leadership in the Small Business Committee 
for working on this effort and 

for working so hard to get this extension, 
a long-term extension, into the 
Defense authorization bill. 

The bill also includes a version of the 
National Guard Citizen Soldiers Support 
Act, which will go far in providing 
our National Guard members with the 
unique services and support they need 
when they return home from the fight. 

We also have a Navy shipyard modernization 
provision that has been introduced 
by Senators SNOWE and COLLINS 
and Senator AYOTTE and I, from 
New Hampshire. It also includes a $400 
million cut to an unnecessary and 
underperforming weapons program 
that I have worked closely with Senators 
MCCAIN and BEGICH to include. 

In addition, I was pleased to cosponsor 
Senator LEAHY’s National Guard 
Empowerment Act, which gives a 
stronger voice to our 450,000 citizen soldiers 
in our National Guard. 

Although we have a good bill before 
us, I believe it could be better, and I 
have introduced several additional 
amendments, two of which are designed 
to provide the nearly 214,000 women 
serving in our Armed Services with the 
reproductive health care they are currently 
denied under the law. Unfortunately, 
we were not able to get a vote 
on those amendments. But I hope to 
continue to work closely with the 
chairman and ranking member to address 
these important concerns. 

In addition, I have worked closely 
with Senators COLLINS and CASEY on an 
amendment to address unsecured and 
looted stockpiles of tens of thousands 
of shoulder-fired missiles in Libya. If 
these weapons fall into the wrong 
hands, they pose a serious threat to 
civil aviation worldwide and to our deployed 
forces abroad. 

I wish to thank the committee for including 
this provision in the legislation. 
I also wish to address, briefly, 
some of the concerns that have been 
raised with respect to the detainee provisions 
in the bill. The underlying legislation 
which I supported is an attempt 
to provide a statutory basis for 
dealing with detained members of al-
Qaida and its terrorist affiliates. 

In committee, we made some difficult 
choices on this extremely complex 
issue. But we did that in order to 
strike a bipartisan agreement to both 
protect our values and our security. I 
understand, similar to all the Members 
of this body, the concerns that have 
been raised on both sides of these 
issues. 

Again, as a general principle, I believe 
our national security officials 
should have the flexibility needed to 
deal with the constantly evolving 
threat. But I also believe that clear, 
transparent rules of procedure are a 
bedrock legal principle of our constitutional 
system. I believe the military 
detention language in this bill includes 
a significant amount of flexibility for 
the executive branch, including a national 
security waiver and broad authorities 
on implementation. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8109 

Although I support the goals of the 
chairman and ranking member’s underlying 
legislation, I also believe we can 
improve those provisions. I supported 
Senator FEINSTEIN’s amendment that 
we just voted on which would restrict 
required military custody to only those 
terrorist suspects captured abroad. 

I hope that despite the disagreements, 
we will continue to chart a bipartisan 
path forward with respect to 
these detainee provisions in the years 
ahead. We need to give our national security 
officials at home and abroad a 
clearly defined but yet flexible system 
which protects our constitutional 
rights and our national security. 

In conclusion, I believe the 2012 Defense 
authorization bill before us will 
strengthen our national security, 
maintain our military power, keep our 
defense businesses competitive, help 
cancel and roll back wasteful spending, 
and support the men and women who 
defend our Nation every day. I hope the 
full Senate will quickly come to an 
agreement on the pending amendments 
and pass this important piece of legislation 
so it can go to the President’s 
desk as soon as possible. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I call for 
the regular order with respect to the 
Merkley amendment No. 1174. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
has that right. That amendment is 
now the regular order. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

Mrs. BOXER. Is it necessary to lay 
aside the pending amendment so I may 
engage in a colloquy? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is 
no need to do that. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1206 

Mrs. BOXER. Senator LEVIN and Senator 
MCCAIN, I wish to thank you very 
much. Before we engage in a colloquy, 
I simply want to show one chart which 
tells a story as to why Senator GRASSLEY 
and I are so pleased the Senators 
are willing to accept this by voice vote. 

If I could ask Senator LEVIN to take 
a peek at this because I think this tells 
the story. This is what our military 
leadership makes, about $200,000. This 
is what the President of the United 
States as the Commander in Chief 
makes every year. This is what we 
have limited, and that was a reform, 
the top five defense contractors to—almost 
$700,000. But all the rest of the 
contract employees have absolutely no 
limit and can make $1 million a year. 
This is from the taxpayers. 

Senator GRASSLEY and I feel, particularly 
in these times, but just as a matter 
of equity, we can fix it. We are very 
grateful to the two Senators for their 
willingness. So I would like to enter 
into a colloquy with Chairman LEVIN 
and, of course through him, Ranking 
Member MCCAIN. 

I greatly appreciate their willingness 
to accept the Boxer-Grassley amendment 
No. 1206 that limits contractor 

employees’ salaries to no more than 
the salary of the Commander in Chief, 
who is, of course, the President of the 
United States. 

Mr. LEVIN. The Senator from California, 
my great friend, Mrs. BOXER, is 
correct. We are willing to accept the 
Boxer-Grassley amendment by voice 
vote. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, there 
currently is no cap at all on the 
amount taxpayers will reimburse contractor 
employees for compensation 
except for just a handful of executives, 
and that limit is already too high at 
$693,951. That is far above what the 
chief executive of the U.S. Government 
gets paid at $400,000 a year. 

So that is why we would cap it at no 
more than what the President can get. 
I presume the Senator from Michigan 
is aware of that and willing to help us 
on that process by adopting this 
amendment. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Where would the congressional 
and staff salaries fit on 
that? 

Mrs. BOXER. That is a good question. 
We would be well below. We would 
be about here. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Senator. 

Mr. LEVIN. In response to Senator 
GRASSLEY’s question, I am very much 
aware of what he referred to. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. I thank the Senator. 


Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, just in 
conclusion, did the Senator from Iowa 
and I have word from the Senator from 
Michigan that during conference negotiations 
with the House of Representatives 
regarding this bill, he will work 
to ensure that contractor employees 
are covered by a reasonable limit so 
taxpayers are not on the hook for excessive 
salary reimbursements? 

Mr. LEVIN. You do, indeed. 

Mrs. BOXER. I thank the Chairman. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. I say thank you to 
the managers of the bill for helping us 
with this very important amendment. 

Mr. LEVIN. I thank the Senator from 
California and the Senator from Iowa 
for their efforts in this area. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1145 

Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, first, I 
wish to start by thanking Chairman 
LEVIN and Senator MCCAIN for their 
continued dialog on a matter of overseas 
basing priorities. I very much appreciate 
their efforts to work to get at 
least the first steps in place for a thorough 
review of our overseas basing 
needs and finally getting some answers 
on the costs of these bases. 

I also wish to especially thank my 
colleague from Texas, Senator 
HUTCHISON, for her continued leadership 
on this issue and for joining me on 
amendment 1145, a bipartisan effort to 
establish an overseas basing commission. 


I realize there are concerns that this 
is not the right time to establish such 
a commission. However, I think it is 
the perfect time. So let me reiterate 

one point I mentioned yesterday. The 
commission would be charged with saving 
taxpayers money by identifying potential 
savings from reevaluating and 
potentially realigning our overseas 
military base structure and investments. 


It is time we take some commonsense 
steps to identify and cut overseas 
military facilities and construction 
projects that have minimal negative 
impacts on our national security and 
military readiness. There is no better 
time than the present to begin this 
work. In a spirit of compromise and understanding 
that establishing a commission 
is not currently acceptable to 
some, I have worked with my colleagues 
to include an independent assessment 
of our overseas basing in this 
legislation. 

I ask unanimous consent to speak 
now as in morning business for 5 minutes. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

PAYROLL TAX HOLIDAY 

Mr. TESTER. What I would like to 
speak on now is regarding the payroll 
tax votes that we are going to be taking 
later today or possibly even this 
evening. I wish to tell you exactly why 
I am going to vote against both of 
these proposals. I believe they are gimmicks, 
designed more for political posturing 
than what Congress ought to be 
doing right now; that is, working together 
to create jobs on a long-term 
basis; to create long-term certainty for 
businesses throughout this country, 
Montana included, while we work to 
cut our deficit. 

The Democrat’s proposal is the same 
included in the President’s American 
Jobs Act, which I voted against several 
weeks ago. My reasons for voting 
against that proposal have not 
changed. It would temporarily extend 
the Social Security payroll tax holiday 
through 2012 and pay for it by raising 
taxes on the wealthy. Although I support 
making sure millionaires and corporations 
pay their fair share in taxes, 
I do not believe this particular proposal 
will create jobs or give our economy 
the boost it needs right now. 

A small 1-year temporary tax cut 
will not give Main Street businesses 
the long-term certainty they need to 
grow and hire. 

The proposal by the Senate Republicans 
also temporarily extends the 
payroll tax holiday but only by cutting 
certain Medicare benefits and cutting 
jobs and extending a current pay freeze 
for our folks who serve in public service. 
Neither of these proposals is right 
for Montana and neither will earn my 
vote. 

I want to take you back to a few 
weeks ago, in November, when Congress 
unanimously passed my veterans 
jobs bill, called the VOW to Hire Heroes 
Act. The President has already 
signed it into law. I believe Congress 
has a responsibility to spend more time 
passing legislation such as that—real 
solutions that create real jobs, and not 
political theater. 


S8110 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

I know we can do it. It was appropriate 
for us to work together for the 
veterans. It is also appropriate for us 
to work together to create jobs for all 
Americans. 

Mr. President, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1126 

Mr. CHAMBLISS. Mr. President, I 
rise in opposition to the second Feinstein 
amendment, No. 1126, I believe. I 
have the privilege as serving as vice 
chairman on the Intelligence Committee 
with Chairman FEINSTEIN. We 
have a good working relationship and 
agree on most every issue that comes 
before the committee. I know the diligence 
and seriousness with which she 
takes every issue but particularly this 
one. 

We have had a number of discussions 
about the fact that we have a lack of a 
detainee and interrogation policy in 
this country now, and I know she is 
concerned about that and is trying to 
make the situation better. I remain 
committed to work with her on a solution. 


Unfortunately, I am going to have to 
oppose her amendment today because 
of my concerns about the limitation it 
imposes on the authority to detain 
Americans who have chosen to wage 
war against America. My first concern 
is that it appears, from the debate yesterday, 
that there is confusion among 
some Members about what this amendment 
does. For example, my colleague 
and friend from Illinois, Senator KIRK, 
argued that he is in favor of robust and 
flexible U.S. military action overseas, 
including against American citizens 
such as Anwar al-Awlaqi. Senator KIRK 
said he supports the Feinstein amendment, 
however, because he believes in a 
zone of protection for citizens inside 
the United States. 

But the Feinstein amendment does 
not apply to only those American citizens 
who commit belligerent acts inside 
the United States; it would also 
prohibit the long-term military detention 
of American terrorists such as 
Anwar al-Awlaqi, who committed terrorist 
acts outside the United States. 
As a result, this amendment would 
have the perverse effect of allowing 
American belligerents overseas to be 
targeted in lethal strikes but not held 
in U.S. military detention until the 
end of hostilities. That makes no sense 
whatsoever. 

I am also concerned about the ambiguity 
in the amendment’s language and 
the uncertainty it will cause our operators, 
especially those overseas. The 
amendment exempts American citizens 
from detention without trial until the 
end of hostilities. But short of the end 

of hostilities, the amendment appears 
to allow detention without trial. Is it 
the Senator’s intent to allow for some 
long-term detention of Americans 
without trial? 

This is troubling because we don’t 
know how the prohibition will be interpreted 
by our operators or the courts 
that will hear inevitable habeas challenges. 
Would the military be permitted 
to hold a captured belligerent 
for a month, a few months, or a few 
years, as long as it was not until the 
end of hostilities? Or would the military 
interpret the amendment as a 
blanket prohibition against military 
detention of Americans for any period 
of time? If the military rounded up 
American terrorists such as Adam 
Gadahn or Adnan Shukrijumah among 
a group of terrorists, would they have 
to let these Americans go because the 
military would not be permitted to detain 
them? Would more American belligerents 
be killed in strikes if capture-
and-detain operations were perceived 
to be unlawful? I don’t believe we can 
leave our operators with this kind of 
uncertainty. 

Finally, we should all remember the 
provisions of the National Defense Authorization 
Act do not provide for a 
new authority to hold U.S. citizens in 
military detention. American citizens 
can be held in military detention under 
current law. Contrary to some claims 
that were made yesterday and debated 
on this floor, these Americans would be 
given ample due process through their 
ability to bring habeas corpus challenges 
to their detention in Federal 
court. The Supreme Court has held in 
the Hamdi case that the detention of 
enemy combatants without the prospect 
of criminal charges or trial until 
the end of hostilities is proper under 
the AUMF and the Constitution. 
Hamdi is a U.S. citizen. This is not a 
new concept. In reaching its decision, 
the Hamdi Court cited the World War 
II case, Ex parte Quirin, in which the 
Supreme Court held: 

[C]itizenship in the United States as an 
enemy belligerent does not relieve him from 
the consequences of a belligerency. 

In conclusion, I understand Senator 
FEINSTEIN’s motivation, but I just 
don’t believe this amendment does 
what she wants it to do, and there will 
be unintended consequences that could 
seriously hamper overseas capture operations. 
Mr. President, I urge my colleagues 
to oppose the Feinstein amendment. 


Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Iowa. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

ATF FAST AND FURIOUS OPERATION 

Mr. GRASSLEY. For anybody interested 
in how long I might be, I would 
say roughly 10 minutes. 

Mr. President, for nearly a year, I 
have been investigating the Bureau of 

Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives’ 
operation known as Operation 
Fast and Furious. I have followed up on 
questions from that investigation as 
the Senate Judiciary Committee held 
oversight hearings over the past few 
weeks with both Secretary Janet 
Napolitano and Attorney General Eric 
Holder. Each of them testified about 
the aftermath of the shooting of Border 
Patrol agent Brian Terry. I have 
sought to clarify with facts some of the 
half-truths that were said during these 
meetings. 

Each claimed they were ignorant of 
the connection between Agent Terry’s 
death and Operation Fast and Furious 
until my letters with whistleblower allegations 
brought the connection to 
light. However, documents that have 
come to light in my investigation draw 
those claims into question. I would like 
to address a couple of those discrepancies. 


Secretary Napolitano went to Arizona 
a few days after Agent Terry’s 
death. She said she met at that time 
with the FBI agents and the assistant 

U.S. attorneys looking for the shooters. 
She also said at that point in time 
that nobody knew about Fast and Furious. 
Yet documents show that many 
people knew about Fast and Furious on 
December 15, the day Agent Terry died. 
Secretary Napolitano referenced the 
FBI agents looking for the shooters. 
The head of the FBI field division was 
present at the December 15 press conference 
about Agent Terry’s murder. 
At that very press conference the FBI 
head told a chief assistant U.S. attorney 
about the connection to an ongoing 
ATF investigation. That same 
night, U.S. attorney Dennis Burke confirmed 
that the guns tied back to Operation 
Fast and Furious. These connections 
were made days before Secretary 
Napolitano’s visit at that time. The 
very purpose of her visit was to find 
out more about the investigation. 

So a very important question comes 
up: The Department of Homeland Security 
oversees the Border Patrol. Why 
wouldn’t the Phoenix FBI head have 
told Secretary Napolitano that the 
only guns found at the scene of Agent 
Terry’s murder were tied to an ongoing 
ATF investigation? 

Let’s not forget the U.S. Attorney’s 
Office. Secretary Napolitano said she 
met with the assistant U.S. attorneys 
looking for the shooters. The chief assistant 
U.S. attorney for the Tucson office, 
which coordinated the Terry investigation, 
found out about the ATF 
connection directly from our Federal 
Bureau of Investigation. 

So a very important question comes 
up that needs to be answered: Why 
would they conceal the Fast and Furious 
connection from Secretary Napolitano 
days later? 

The Tucson office is overseen by the 

U.S. attorney for the District of Arizona, 
Dennis Burke, who confirmed to 
Tucson that guns came from Operation 
Fast and Furious. When Ms. Napolitano 
served as Governor of Arizona, 

December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8111 

Mr. Burke served as her chief of staff 
for 5 years. Secretary Napolitano acknowledges 
that she had conversations 
with him about the murder of Agent 
Terry. 

So a very important question comes 
up: Why would Mr. Burke conceal the 
Fast and Furious connection from Secretary 
Napolitano? 

Even before Secretary Napolitano 
came to Arizona, e-mails indicate Mr. 
Burke spoke on December 15 with Attorney 
General Holder’s deputy chief of 
Staff, Monte Wilkinson. 

So a very important question is unanswered: 
Before finding out about 
Agent Terry, Mr. Burke e-mailed Mr. 
Wilkinson that he wanted to ‘‘explain 
in detail’’ about Fast and Furious when 
they talked. In that phone call—and 
this is a very important question—did 

U.S. attorney Burke tell Mr. Wilkinson 
about the case’s connection to a Border 
Patrol agent’s death that very day? 
The next day, the Deputy Director of 
the ATF made sure briefing papers 
were prepared about the Operation 
Fast and Furious connection to Agent 
Terry’s death. He sent them to individuals 
in Washington, DC, in the Deputy 
Attorney General’s Office at the Justice 
Department. Within 24 hours, they 
were forwarded to the Deputy Attorney 
General. They were accompanied by 
personal e-mails from one of the Deputy 
Attorney General assistants explaining 
the situation. 

Two weeks later, that Deputy Attorney 
General, Gary Grindler, was named 
Attorney General Holder’s chief of 
staff. Yet a month and a half after 
Agent Terry’s death, Attorney General 
Holder was allegedly ignorant of the 
Operation Fast and Furious connection 
to the murder of Agent Terry. 

So a very important question is unanswered: 
Why wouldn’t Mr. Grindler 
bring up these serious problems with 
Attorney General Holder, either as his 
Deputy Attorney General or as his 
chief of staff? 

It is clear that multiple highly 
placed officials in multiple agencies 
knew almost immediately of the connection 
between Operation Fast and 
Furious and Agent Terry’s death. 

The Department of Justice and the 
Department of Homeland Security 
have failed to adequately explain why 
Attorney General Holder and Secretary 
Napolitano allegedly remained ignorant 
of that connection. Whether it is 
the Attorney General or the Secretary 
or members of their staff, somebody 
wasn’t doing their job. Somebody 
wasn’t serving their higher-ups as they 
should have been, as proper staff people. 


In the case of Secretary Napolitano, 
either she was not entirely candid with 
me and others or this was a gross 
breach on the part of those who kept 
her in the dark. The Border Patrol and 
the Department of Homeland Security 
lost a man—Agent Terry being murdered. 
It was their right to know the 
full circumstances surrounding that 
from people who served under them. 

No one likes the unpleasant business 
of having to fess up, but the FBI, ATF, 
and U.S. Attorney’s Office owed it to 
Agent Brian Terry and his family to 
fully inform the leadership of the Department 
of Homeland Security. This 
was the death of a Federal agent involving 
weapons allowed to walk free 
by another agency in his own government. 


Let me explain ‘‘walking guns.’’ The 
Federal Government operates under 
the rule of law, just like all of us have 
to live under that rule of law. There 
are licensed Federal gun dealers, and 
Federal gun dealers were encouraged to 
sell guns illegally to straw buyers and, 
supposedly, follow those guns across 
the border to somehow arrest people 
who were involved with drug trafficking 
and other illegal things. Two of 
these guns showed up at the murder 
scene of Agent Terry. So it is a very serious 
situation that we need to get to 
the bottom of. 

If what I have just described, with all 
these unanswered questions, is not 
enough to brief up to the top of the Department, 
then I don’t know what is. In 
other words, staff people ought to be 
doing their job or, if staff people were 
doing their job, then the Congress, in 
our constitutional job of oversight, is 
being misled. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. 
MCCASKILL). The Senator from Rhode 
Island. 

Mr. REED. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

PAYROLL TAX CUT AND UNEMPLOYMENT 
COMPENSATION 

Mr. REED. Madam President, I rise 
today to urge my colleagues to extend 
and expand the payroll tax cut and to 
fully extend unemployment compensation 
insurance immediately. The payroll 
tax cut and full extension of unemployment 
insurance are two of our best 
tools for strengthening our economic 
recovery. We must work without let-up 
to pass this legislation before year’s 
end. 

Democrats are doing everything we 
can to create jobs and solve our unemployment 
crisis. Millions of Americans 
are still out of work, however, and 
looking for a job in the toughest economy 
since the Great Depression. Jobless 
benefits, which have been essential 
to millions of Americans as they 
search for a job, are set to expire at the 
end of this year. 

Congress has never failed to extend 
benefits when unemployment is this 
high. Unfortunately, right now, Republicans 
are refusing to fully extend unemployment 
insurance, despite our Nation’s 
9 percent unemployment rate. In 
extending benefits, we should not do 
any less for the recently unemployed 
than we did for those who were unemployed 
in the last year or two. That is 
why I introduced the Emergency Unemployment 
Compensation Extension 

Act of 2011, which fully extends Federal 
support for unemployment insurance 
through 2012. 

Extending benefits doesn’t just make 
sense for a person who has been laid 
off, it makes sense for the economy as 
a whole. In fact, during today’s hearing 
in the Senate Banking Committee, a 
business operator recognized that failing 
to extend unemployment insurance 
would have a negative impact on their 
business. Its was hard for him to quantify, 
but the sense he has, from operating 
a very dispersed convenience 
store operation throughout this country, 
is there would likely be a negative 
impact. 

Those impacts will be magnified and 
multiplied throughout our economy. It 
will, ironically, cause not just those 
without jobs to lose benefits, it will 
also probably lead to further reductions 
in jobs as demand falls off and 
the need for employees, particularly in 
retail establishments, might lessen. 

That is why, if Congress truly wishes 
to help strengthen our economy, we 
need to extend unemployment insurance 
now. The reason we must fully extend 
unemployment insurance is simple: 
If people don’t have jobs, they 
can’t spend money. If people can’t 
spend money, businesses go under. If 
businesses fail, more people lose their 
jobs, and the downward spiral continues. 


Extending unemployment insurance 
is not just the right thing to do, it is a 
wise investment with a strong rate of 
return that will provide a much needed 
economic boost to every State across 
the country. 

Unemployment is, regrettably, a national 
crisis. This program will address 
a nationwide problem, and it will do it 
in an extraordinarily cost-effective 
way. The CBO has calculated that this 
has one of best returns on the dollar. 
The reason we must fully extend unemployment 
insurance is quite simple. 
People who are receiving unemployment 
benefits need that money to pay 
for groceries, to put some gas in the 
car, to take care of those immediate 
expenses. So, as the economists would 
say, their marginal propensity to consume—
i.e., their willingness to take 
the dollar in and spend it out—is very 
high. As a result, this program not 
only helps families who are struggling, 
it also immediately injects dollars and 
demand into the economy. These programs 
have a real benefit. 

We understand what we have to do to 
address our unemployment crisis and 
that is to grow the economy, and that 
means we must create jobs. Again, this 
program will help stimulate demand, 
will help keep people at work and perhaps 
even—we hope—put more people 
to work. 

When it comes to the efficacy of this 
program, the bang for the buck, it is 
among the most effective. I referred 
earlier to some economists—in specific 
terms—Alan Blinder and Mark Zandi 


S8112 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

have estimated that for every dollar 
spent on extending unemployment benefits, 
the economy grows by $1.61. The 
Economic Policy Institute has estimated 
that failing to extend UI benefits 
for a year could result in the loss 
of $72 billion in economic activity for 
2012, which impacts 560,000 jobs across 
the country. The country cannot afford 
this hit. We cannot afford to miss the 
opportunity to maintain or create over 
500,000 jobs. We cannot ignore the fact 
that, in this very critical budget situation, 
this is one of the most cost-effective 
ways to continue to stimulate demand 
and grow jobs in our country. 

We also have to understand that we 
are dealing with a situation that is getting 
to be critical because we are running 
out of time. These benefits will 
expire at the end of the year, and we 
must move forward. 

I think we can also do something 
else, and that is to improve this program. 
One way to improve it is to 
adopt a program that is very effective 
in my State of Rhode Island and several 
other States across the country, 
and that is work sharing. Work sharing 
is a voluntary program that prevents 
layoffs, it keeps people on the job, it 
helps employers retain skilled workers, 
and it strengthens the unemployment 
insurance system. 

Over 20 States are utilizing this program. 
They estimate they saved 100,000 
jobs in 2010 alone. Essentially what it 
does is it allows an employer—for example—
to keep people on the job for 3 
out of 5 days of the week, and the other 
2 days are compensated for by the Unemployment 
Insurance Fund. The fund 
saves money, and the employer keeps 
these people in the workplace with all 
their skills and all their contributions 
to the firm. It is a win-win, and it is 
something over 20 States across this 
country have embraced. I think it 
should be national, and we have provisions 
in legislation I’ve introduced that 
would help extend it nationally. 

Again, we cannot delay. I urge all of 
my colleagues to join me in taking the 
needed steps to help our economic recovery 
and extend our unemployment 
compensation insurance program before 
the end of this year. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from North Dakota. 

Mr. HOEVEN. Madam President, I 
rise to speak in regard to several 
amendments to the Defense authorization 
bill. First is in regard to the nuclear 
triad and the important role it 
plays in defense of our Nation and security 
of the world and also in regard 
to the Global Hawk unmanned aerial 
systems program and the important 
role it has for our forces, both today in 
our efforts around the world and what 
it means to us in the future. 

First, in regard to amendment 1279 
and the nuclear triad, this amendment 
was cosponsored by Senator TESTER, 
Senator ENZI, Senator BLUNT, Senator 
VITTER. Also, I ask unanimous consent 
that my colleague from North Dakota, 

Senator CONRAD, be included as a cosponsor 
of the amendment, as well as 
Senator BAUCUS of Montana. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. HOEVEN. The amendment declares 
that the United States should 
maintain a triad of strategic nuclear 
delivery systems which includes missiles, 
bombers, and submarines. It also 
declares that it is the sense of the Senate 
that the President should budget 
for the modernization of those systems 
and the weapons they deliver. 

Over the past couple of years, numerous 
statements have been made in support 
of the triad. The 2010 Nuclear Posture 
Review concluded that the United 
States needs the nuclear triad. The 
Senate, in its resolution of ratification 
for the New START treaty, declared 
that the United States needs the nuclear 
triad. And President Obama last 
February certified that he intends to 
modernize the nuclear triad. However, 
the administration is now currently 
conducting a further review of the role 
nuclear weapons play in defending U.S. 
national security—a miniature Nuclear 
Posture Review. It is important that 
the Senate reaffirm its commitment to 
the nuclear triad once again. 

I am particularly concerned by statements 
that we can reduce our nuclear 
arsenal significantly below the requirements 
laid out in the New START treaty. 
Given the threats we face and the 
responsibility we have to the American 
people and to our allies, I believe we 
must retain the nuclear triad. The reasons 
are clear and compelling. We need 
missiles to provide a persistent, dispersed, 
and cost-effective deterrent. We 
need submarines to provide an invisible, 
mobile, and survivable deterrent. 
And we need bombers to provide a visible, 
long-range, recallable deterrent. 

The bottom line is that the triad provides 
us with a safe, credible, reliable 
nuclear deterrent that renders any effort 
to eliminate or sidestep our retaliatory 
capabilities completely meaningless. 
And those benefits accrue not 
only to the United States but to our allies 
as well. The Congressional Strategic 
Posture Commission, the resolution 
of the ratification to the New 
START agreement, and the 2010 Nuclear 
Posture Review all concluded 
that the United States needs to maintain 
the triad. 

The triad was developed out of a need 
to counter an immense threat from the 
Soviet Union, but it now gives us the 
flexibility to adapt to an ever-changing 
international security environment. 
And supporting a triad means supporting 
a program to maintain and enhance 
the weapons and a delivery system 
that make up the triad. 

It is very important to point out— 
particularly given our fiscal situation—
that the costs of updating and 
maintaining the weapons in the triad 
will not take up a very big percentage 
of the defense budget, particularly relative 
to the tremendous security advantages 
it provides. In fact, General 

Kehler, the head of Strategic Command, 
recently indicated his strong 
support for efforts to preserve the triad 
and modernize each of the associated 
delivery systems. 

It is tempting to assume that because 
the Cold War is over, we don’t 
need the nuclear arsenal anymore. In 
fact, people who defend the nuclear arsenal 
are often accused of being stuck 
in a cold war mindset. The truth is just 
the opposite. Only in a cold war 
mindset would we assume Russia is the 
sole reason we preserve our nuclear arsenal. 
Today, our nuclear deterrent 
counters a variety of threats that did 
not even exist during the Cold War, and 
it hedges against the emergence of new 
nuclear threats. 

The decades following the end of the 
Cold War have made nuclear deterrence 
far more complicated than the old superpower 
confrontation of last century. 
We must now counter nuclear threats 
from multiple actors around the world. 

First, consider China. China’s military 
modernization program is built on 
a foundation of a large and growing nuclear 
arsenal. Intelligence estimates 
suggest that the number of warheads 
atop Chinese ICBMs capable of reaching 
the United States could more than 
double within the next 15 years. Recent 
reports indicate that China is fielding 
four different new nuclear-ready ballistic 
missiles. China is prioritizing the 
development of mobile land-based 
ICBMs and submarine-launched ballistic 
missiles. China’s nuclear posture 
is also troubling. China has not defined 
what it would consider a minimum nuclear 
deterrent, making it difficult to 
understand the motivations behind 
China’s nuclear force expansion and 
their modernization efforts. 

Second, new nuclear powers such as 
North Korea and Pakistan further complicate 
how we calculate our need for 
deterrence. North Korea has pursued 
nuclear weapons using both plutonium 
and uranium and continues to develop 
long-range ballistic missiles that can 
threaten the United States. North Korea’s 
nuclear arsenal forces our allies 
in East Asia—especially South Korea 
and Japan—to put a premium on the 

U.S. nuclear deterrent. Pakistan’s nuclear 
weapons greatly complicate the 
security situation in central Asia and 
create a serious risk of nuclear proliferation. 
The emergence of these two 
nuclear powers is a cautionary tale 
about the unpredictable ripple effects 
of new players in the nuclear game and 
a strong reason why reductions to U.S. 
strategic forces should only be made 
with the greatest caution. 
Third, nuclear proliferation will remain 
one of our foremost security challenges 
in the world. The IAEA reports 
that Iran has been researching and developing 
nuclear weapons, and it expressed 
serious concerns about the 
military dimensions of Iran’s nuclear 
program. Syria was so serious about 
developing a nuclear weapon—probably 
with the help of North Korea and 
Iran—that in 2007 Israel had to destroy 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8113 

a Syrian nuclear site. Terrorist groups 
and other rogue actors also seek the 
development or the acquisition of nuclear 
arms. 

And, of course, fourth, we cannot yet 
forget about Russia. Under the provisions 
of the New START agreement, 
Russia can expand its nuclear force 
rather than pursue reductions. Russia 
intends to build a new heavy ICBM to 
be available by 2018. Russia expects to 
build eight new nuclear submarines, 
and it also plans on designing and 
building a new nuclear bomber. 

We cannot afford to let our nuclear 
deterrent atrophy in light of so many 
nuclear threats. Once we lose our nuclear 
capabilities, it will be extremely 
hard to reconstitute them. 

We need a reliable and credible nuclear 
arsenal. We need it to dissuade 
new nations from acquiring nuclear 
weapons. We need it to deter nuclear 
powers from using their weapons. And 
we need it to hold enemy arsenals at 
risk. 

People may not always stop and 
think about the demands placed on 
America’s nuclear deterrent, but they 
are real and they are extensive. We 
have nuclear weapons as a guarantor of 
the security of the American homeland. 
Our nuclear arsenal renders any 
plan to strike the United States with 
nuclear weapons sheer folly. The investments 
made over the last several 
decades continue to pay dividends by 
creating the space within which America 
can address other security threats. 

Make no mistake, without a large 
nuclear arsenal other nations would 
move plans to strike the United States 
from the category of unthinkable to 
possibly thinkable. 

Second, and nearly as important, the 
United States nuclear deterrent replaces 
the need for our allies to develop 
or acquire nuclear weapons, keeping 
the peace in critical regions around the 
world. East Asia is a particularly good 
example. The status of U.S. nuclear 
posture is a major concern in Japan. 
Despite assurances from the United 
States that our nuclear umbrella will 
continue to protect Japan, Tokyo is 
worried about even the most subtle 
changes in U.S. policy. During his most 
recent trip, Secretary Panetta publicly 
reiterated the U.S. commitment to protect 
South Korea with our nuclear umbrella 
and our nuclear deterrent is 
probably the only reason South Korea 
has not developed a nuclear capability 
in response to North Korea’s nuclear 
programs. 

I will conclude on the triad. Our nuclear 
deterrent has been the foundation 
of U.S. national security since World 
War II. The nuclear triad provides an 
incredible return on our investment 
and I urge the Senate to send a strong 
signal of support for the nuclear triad 
as laid out in amendment No. 1279. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1358 

Madam President, if I may very briefly 
also address the importance of the 
Global Hawk with a brief overview of 
amendment No. 1358. This amendment 

simply states that it is the sense of 
Congress that the Secretary of the Air 
Force should continue to abide by the 
guidelines set forth in the acquisition 
decision memorandum issued June 14, 
2011 from the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense. That memorandum on Global 
Hawk, the RQ–4 Global Hawk, found 
that the Global Hawk UAS is essential 
to national security and that there is 
no other program that can provide the 
benefits to the warfighter that the 
Global Hawk can provide. 

The Global Hawk is a vital intelligence 
surveillance and reconnaissance 
asset. The Global Hawk flies at 
high altitude. It can fly at extended 
ranges and for long periods of time, and 
it can carry a wide array of sensors simultaneously. 


We have invested a lot of time and a 
lot of money in this platform and it is 
paying fast dividends. The Global 
Hawk is flown in a wide variety of missions 
all over the world in support for 
things such as CENTCOM operations, 
humanitarian relief efforts in Japan 
and Haiti, and extensively for operations 
in Libya. For these reasons and 
many more, my amendment stresses 
that the Air Force must continue to 
heed the conclusions of the June 14, 
2011 acquisition decision memorandum 
on the RQ–4 Program. The RQ–4, which 
is Global Hawk, remains essential for 
United States national security and is 
irreplaceable. 

The bottom line is America needs to 
support and continue the Global Hawk. 
Our commanders require as much information 
about the battlefield as they 
can get. The RQ–4 represents a new 
generation of ISR aircraft with unprecedented 
capabilities. 

Finally, we must invest in this essential 
capacity precisely because budgets 
are tight. As the Pentagon concluded 
in June, the Global Hawk represents 
the most cost-effective way to meet 
the requirements of our warfighters 
now and in the future. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alabama is recognized. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1274 

Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I 
wish to address amendment 1274, which 
would clarify what I believe is existing 
law that the President has authority to 
continue to detain an enemy combatant 
under the law of war, following a 
trial before a military commission or 
an article III court, and regardless of 
the outcome of that trial. Let me explain 
what I mean. 

As I said yesterday, even under the 
law of war the President has the authority 
to detain an enemy combatant, 
a prisoner of war, a captured enemy 
soldier, a belligerent. The President 
can detain him through the duration of 
the hostilities. The President is not required—
the Commander in Chief is not 
required to release an individual whose 
sworn duty it is to return to his military 
outfit and commence hostilities 
again against the United States. That 
individual could be killed on the bat


tlefield, but if captured, you are not required, 
under all laws of war that I am 
aware of and certainly the Geneva Conventions—
you can maintain that individual 
in custody to prevent him from 
attacking you. But you can also try an 
individual who has been captured if 
that individual violated the rules of 
war. 

For example, a decent soldier from 
Germany—many of them were held in 
my State of Alabama. They behaved 
well. They made paintings of American 
citizens, they did a lot of things, and 
did not cause a lot of trouble. They 
were in uniform and they complied 
with the rules of war and they were not 
tried as illegal enemy combatants. 

But many of the terrorists today do 
not wear uniforms, deliberately target 
innocent men, women, and children, 
and deliberately violate multiple rules 
of war. Those individuals are subject, 
in addition to being held as a combatant, 
as an unlawful combatant. They 
can be prosecuted and they should be 
prosecuted. In World War II a group of 
Nazi saboteurs in the Ex parte Quirin 
case were let out of a submarine off, I 
think, of Long Island. They came into 
the country with plans to sabotage the 
United States. They were captured and 
tried by military commissions. Several 
were American citizens. A number of 
them—most of them, frankly—after 
being tried and convicted, were executed. 
The Supreme Court of the 
United States approved that procedure. 

But recent cases demonstrate the potential 
problem we have today. One 
Guantanamo Bay detainee has already 
raised the question I have discussed before 
the military commission where he 
is being tried. Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, 
the alleged mastermind of the USS 
Cole bombing, was arraigned before a 
military commission on November 9. 
He was held not only as an al-Qaida, or 
a belligerent against the United States, 
but he was charged with a violation of 
the rules of war. 

This was a group that sneaked into 
the harbor pretending to be innocent 
people and ran their boat against the 
Cole, killing a number of U.S. sailors. 

I remember being at a christening of 
one of the Navy ships at Norfolk not 
long after this. I walked out of that 
area and I heard one of the sailors cry 
out: Remember the Cole. The hair still 
stands up on my neck when I hear it. 

We have an obligation to defend our 
men and women in uniform. When they 
are out on the high sea or they are in 
a neutral port, they expect to be treated 
according to the laws of war and 
then they are murdered by an individual 
such as this. 

This individual’s lawyers filed a motion 
asking the military judge to clarify 
the effect of an acquittal, should 
the commission acquit him. He argued 
that the members of the committee 
had a right to know what would happen 
if he were acquitted because they 
might object to taking part in what he 
called a show trial if it turned out that 
he would continue to be detained at 
Guantanamo Bay. 


S8114 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

There is another case in which the 
administration was almost confronted 
with the problem a year ago, in the 
case of a former Guantanamo detainee, 
an al-Qaida member named Ahmed 
Ghailani, who was responsible for the 
1998 embassy bombings in Kenya and 
Tanzania. Most of us remember those 
early al-Qaida bombings against our 
embassies in Africa. 

After the Justice Department chose 
to prosecute Ghailani in an article III 
civilian court and directed the United 
States Attorney not to seek the death 
penalty—I am not sure why that ever 
happened; we don’t know—but the jury 
acquitted him on 284 out of 285 counts. 
Luckily, he received a life sentence on 
the single count of conspiracy, for 
which he was convicted. 

But what if he had not been convicted? 
What if there was insufficient 
evidence to prove he committed a 
crime, but not insufficient evidence to 
prove he was a combatant against the 
United States? Al-Qaida has declared 
war against the United States, officially 
and openly. The U.S. Congress 
has authorized the use of military force 
against al-Qaida, which is the equivalent 
of a declaration of war. 

What if he had received a modest sentence 
after being convicted and had 
credit for time served? What if he had 
been acquitted on all 285 counts? Would 
the President have been required to release 
him into the United States, if the 
government could not get some country 
to take him? That would be wrong. 
He was at war against the United 
States. He was a combatant against 
the United States. Like any other captured 
combatant, he can be held as 
long as the hostilities continue. 

By the way, let me note, military 
commissions are open. If they decide to 
try one of these individuals—not just 
hold him as a prisoner of war but hold 
him and try him for violation of the 
laws of war—they get lawyers, they get 
procedural rights. The Supreme Court 
has established what those rights are. 
Congress has passed laws effectuating 
what the Supreme Court said these 
trials should consist of, and a mechanism 
has been set up to fairly try 
them. 

But enemy combatants are not common 
criminals. If a bank robber is denied 
bail, he remains in jail awaiting a 
trial, a speedy public trial, with government-
paid lawyers. Enemy combatants 
are not sitting in Guantanamo 
Bay awaiting trial by a military commission, 
or by an article III court. 
They are held in military custody precisely 
because they are enemies, combatants 
against the United States. 
They should continue to be held there 
as long as the war continues and as 
long as they do not remain a threat to 
return to the battlefield against the 
United States. 

This is an important point, considering 
that 27 percent of the former 
Guantanamo detainees who have been 
released—161 out of 600—have returned 
to the battlefield, attacked Americans. 

This Nation has no obligation to release 
captured enemy prisoners of war 
when we know for an absolute fact that 
27 percent of them have returned to 
war against the United States. How 
many others have but we do not have 
proof of it? That is what the whole history 
of warfare is. 

Lincoln ceased exchanging prisoners 
with the South after he realized they 
had more soldiers in the South. It was 
not to his advantage to release captured 
southern soldiers who would return 
to the fighting, so he held them 
until the war was over. Under the laws 
of war, the President has the authority 
to prevent an enemy combatant from 
returning to the battlefield. That is 
consistent with all history. 

This amendment—please, Senators, I 
hope you would note—would make it 
clear that the President simply has authority 
to continue to detain enemy 
combatants held pursuant to the rules 
of war, even though they may have 
been tried, regardless of where that 
trial would be held and what the outcome 
was, as long as, of course, they 
could prove they were an enemy combatant 
and violating the rules of war. 

I would note one thing. 

I see my friend, the Senator from 
California, is here and probably is 
ready to speak. 

On the question of citizenship, can a 
citizen be held in this fashion? The Supreme 
Court has clearly held they may. 
But the Senator is offering legislation 
that might change that. My amendment 
does not answer that question. It 
simply says a combatant should be able 
to be held under the standard of a prisoner 
of war, a combatant, even if they 
had been prosecuted for violation of 
the laws of war and acquitted. 

It is common sense. I believe the 
courts will hold that, but it is an issue 
that is out there. I think Congress 
would do well to settle it today. 

I urge my colleagues to do so. 

I thank the Chair, and I yield the 
floor. I note the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant bill clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, in a 
few moments, Senator MCCAIN and I 
will be seeking unanimous consent 
that the following pending and germane 
amendments be considered en 
bloc, that the amendments be modified 
with the changes that are at the desk 
where applicable: Begich 1114, as modified; 
McCain 1220; Reed of Rhode Island 
1146, as modified; Levin 1293, as modified; 
Boxer 1206; Chambliss 1304, as 
modified; Pryor 1151; Nelson of Florida 
1236; Blunt 1133; Murkowski 1287. 

Further, that the amendments be 
agreed to en bloc—we are not making 
that request now. We will be making 
that request in a few minutes. This is 

not the so-called managers’ package, 
by the way. These are the pending germane 
amendments which have been before 
us for some time but which we believe 
have now been cleared, and there 
is no opposition; however, if there is, 
there is an opportunity for people to 
come down. 

I would yield now to my friend from 
Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Reserving the right to 
object, and I will not object, I thank 
my friend. I believe the Senator overlooked 
Brown of Massachusetts amendment 
No. 1090, I think, was agreed to be 
a part of that. 

Mr. LEVIN. That was not on my 
sheet, but that is fine, and that would 
be added. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I note the presence of 
our friend from Texas, who would like 
to voice his objections to the package 
of amendments which is pending which 
have been agreed by both sides because 
of his concerns about a particular 
amendment he had. I would like to 
hear from him in a minute. 

I would like to say to my colleagues 
on this side of the aisle, if you have an 
objection, please come to the floor. We 
would intend to vote—or seek approval 
of what the distinguished chairman 
just proposed—at 5 after the hour. That 
gives them 15 minutes. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Texas. 

Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, is 
there a unanimous consent request 
pending? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is 
not. 

Mr. CORNYN. Thank you for clarification. 
I just wanted to make sure. 

Madam President, I discussed with 
the distinguished chairman of the Senate 
Armed Services Committee and the 
distinguished ranking member my concerns 
that earlier I attempted to gain 
unanimous consent to modify my 
amendment regarding the sale of F–16s 
to Taiwan in order to make it germane. 
I was happy to do that in order to get 
a vote, but the chairman tells me there 
is an objection to that. 

I wished to make clear that any 
amendment that is offered—whether 
now in this list or subsequently in the 
managers’ package or otherwise—and 
is being treated differently than mine 
is, then I am going to object to unanimous 
consent. 

Through the Chair, I would ask the 
distinguished chairman of the Armed 
Services Committee are there any 
amendments on this list that were 
modified in order to make them germane? 


Mr. LEVIN. I doublechecked on this. 
The answer is no, and that is about as 
directly as I can say it. I checked with 
staff and the staff says they have been 
modified—in many cases as I indicated—
but none in order to make them 
germane. 

Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I 
appreciate the direct response from the 
chairman. I will have no objection to 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8115 

any amendment that is being offered 
that is not being offered as modified in 
order to make it germane. I hope my 
point is clear as mud. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I just wish to say I 
strongly support the amendment by 
the Senator from Texas, and I will do 
everything I can to see that this issue 
is raised. I cannot comprehend why we 
would not want to provide one of our 
closest allies with the equipment they 
need to defend themselves with the 
growingly aggressive mainland China 
exhibiting the characteristics of intimidation 
and bullying and perhaps 
threatening Taiwan. 

I wished to state, first of all, my appreciation 
to both Senators from 
Texas, who have been very involved in 
this issue, and I wish to tell them I will 
do everything I can to make sure this 
amendment is adopted. We do need to 
send the signal that we support our 
friends. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alabama. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Madam President, I 
join with Senator MCCAIN in support of 
Senator CORNYN’s amendment. Taiwan 
has been a strong ally of the United 
States. Senator MCCAIN said we would 
provide them military aircraft, but, in 
truth, they would buy it. They are our 
allies. They are friends. They are prepared 
to purchase from an American 
company legitimate military equipment 
that they could use to help maintain 
the freedom they have cherished 
on the island, and it is hard for me to 
understand how that would be objected 
to. 

I just wish to say, as someone who 
has looked at these issues for some 
time as a member of the Armed Services 
Committee, I do believe Senator 
CORNYN—also a member of that committee—
is correct, and I strongly support 
the amendment and urge my colleagues 
to vote for it, if and when we 
can get a vote. 

I thank the Chair, yield the floor, 
and note the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts. 
Madam President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the order for the quorum 
call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1090 

Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts. I have 
an amendment that has been accept-
ed—almost—sort of kind of accepted— 
amendment No. 1090, which I would 
like to discuss briefly. 

I thank Senators WYDEN and COONS 
for their bipartisan leadership as cosponsors 
of this amendment. I believe 
we are going to vote on it shortly, and 
I ask that it be accepted, either by vote 
or by unanimous consent. 

It is a simple amendment that will 
make sure the National Guardsmen 
who get deployed will receive the housing 
allowances they need and deserve. 
This is a bipartisan amendment. The 
Defense Department has agreed that 
the situation needs to be fixed—something 
that recently was developed. 

There is a little bit of history behind 
this, but I don’t think it is important 
because Senator WYDEN and Senator 
COONS and I have taken the lead on 
this issue, which is critically important 
to providing the funds that have 
been taken merely by a change in the 
regulations. This has happened at a 
time, quite frankly, when our men and 
women who are fighting need that 
money. 

I am offering this amendment as a result 
of a bill I introduced last September, 
entitled the ‘‘National Guard 
Basic Allowance for Housing Equity 
Act.’’ I introduced this legislation to 
fix an inequity that hurts National 
Guardsmen who are deployed. Merely 
as a result of their deployment, they 
could lose upward of $1,000 per month 
in their monthly housing allowance. 

Basic Allowance for Housing, or 
BAH, is a benefit paid to members of 
the military to help offset the cost of 
local housing markets. When a service-
member is deployed, for example, BAH 
is necessary to help offset the cost of a 
mortgage or rent in a particular geographic 
area. Everyone in the military, 
especially families, rely on this benefit. 
This benefit is especially critical 
when servicemembers deploy because, 
as we know, the spouse is often at 
home and she or he is responsible for 
taking care of the bills. 

What would my colleagues say if I 
said that because you are ordered to 
deploy to Afghanistan, for example, the 
Department of Defense is going to 
withhold $1,000 or more from your 
monthly housing allowance, a huge 
piece of your total household income— 
upward of $12,000 or more per year—because 
of a new policy interpretation? 
That is right. It is merely a new policy 
interpretation. 

Because of a DOD oversight, over 800 
Guardsmen—some even in the Presiding 
Officer’s State and 40 in Massachusetts 
who are deployed to Afghanistan 
right now—are losing, in the middle 
of the battle, up to $1,000 per month 
in their housing allowance because 
they were ordered to deploy. 

Title X mandates that full-time 
Guardsmen, when ordered to Active 
Duty for a contingency operation, even 
if there is no break in their active Federal 
service, must revert back to their 
home-of-record status rather than 
their current duty station. Because of 
this change in status, it alters a 
guardsman’s basic allowance for housing 
on their monthly pay stub. Basically, 
guardsmen are being punished 
for being deployed to a war zone. 

For example, take a full-time guardsman 
who is from Worcester. He calls 
Worcester, MA, home and probably 
votes there, but he is stationed in 

Washington, DC, let’s say right down 
the street at the Pentagon. So he or 
she earns a housing allowance based on 
the cost of living in DC and, as we all 
know, it is higher than in Worcester, 
MA. Sounds pretty normal, pretty 
straightforward, right? 

This guardsman is then ordered to 
Active Duty—to Federal status—for 
the purpose of deploying overseas. A 
new housing allowance rate kicks in 
that is based on his home of record 
back in Worcester, not where he or she 
was actually stationed, here in D.C. 

As a result, the guardsman and his 
family immediately start losing up to 
$1,000 per month because of that deployment 
to serve their country. So 
full-time guardsmen are entitled to the 
BAH rate they are receiving at the 
duty station because it is where they 
and their dependents live, and that is 
often where the spouses will reside 
until that servicemember comes back. 
Obviously, family members are not 
going back to Worcester while the 
guardsman is stationed at the Pentagon 
or here in D.C. 

This is not right. It is something 
DOD agrees with. Senator WYDEN and 
Senator COONS concur, and I appreciate 
their bipartisanship in moving this forward. 
I am all about finding savings, 
but the good thing is that this is no 
cost to the government. It is already 
budgeted in the DOD budget. I am not 
into savings that treat our service men 
and women unfairly. 

So my amendment provides a simple, 
noncontroversial fix. It is germane. It 
is relevant. It helps people who are 
serving our country right now. It is bipartisan. 
It is how we should do things 
around here. 

I am glad the DOD has realized this 
is a problem, and I hope my colleagues 
will move forward in a manner to make 
our citizens proud. 

I wish to thank Senator MCCAIN for 
his effort in getting this important 
matter to our guardsmen who are serving 
presently overseas. It is a testament 
to his diligence. I thank Chairman 
LEVIN for putting up with the 
problems over the last few days, but it 
is important to the people. It is not 
about politics; it is about serving our 
men and women. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1206 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, 
at a time when the national security 
budget is under immense pressure, it is 
vitally important that we spend our defense 
dollars more wisely. 

The Boxer-Grassley amendment will 
contain runaway spending in contractor 
salary reimbursements. Notice 
that I said ‘‘salary reimbursements,’’ 
not salaries. 

Someone not familiar with government 
contracting might ask why it’s 
any of our business what government 
contractors get paid, and I would agree 
if we’re talking about what their company 
pays them out of its own pocket. 

When most people hire a contractor 
to renovate their bathroom or re-shingle 
their roof, they find the one that 
does the best work for the least cost. 


S8116 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

Having done that, you are not likely 
to ask or care what their cut is or what 
they pay their crew. 

To the extent that government contracts 
work the same way, the same 
principle applies. Unfortunately, not 
all government contracts do work that 
way. 

A large proportion of government 
contracts actually reimburse the contractor 
directly for the costs they 
incur, including for the salaries of 
their employees. These types of contracts 
are risky because contractors 
lose the incentive to control costs. 
They are only supposed to be used 
when a fixed price contract is not possible 
for instance, if the scope or duration 
of the work is not possible to determine 
at the outset. 

Nevertheless, cost-reimbursement 
type contracts are used extensively by 
Federal departments and agencies. 

The Defense Department alone accounted 
for over $100 billion in cost reimbursement 
type contracts in fiscal 
year 2010. 

President Obama has criticized the 
widespread use of these types of contracts 
and has set a goal of slowing the 
growth and ultimately reducing their 
use. 

He has made a little progress. However, 
we are talking about a small dent 
in a large bucket. 

It’s clear that cost type contracts are 
going to account for a major proportion 
of the dollars spent on federal contracting 
for the foreseeable future. As 
a result, we must take steps to limit 
unreasonable expenditures under these 
types of contracts. 

Senator BOXER and I worked together 
to try to head off this problem back in 
1997. 

At that time, we proposed capping 
salary reimbursements at the salary 
level of the President of the United 
States. 

However, a compromise was ultimately 
enacted that capped how much 
the top 5 highest earning contractor 
executives could charge the federal 
government for their salaries. 

The cap was set at the median salary 
of the top five executives at companies 
with annual sales over $50 million, 
which must be recalculated annually. 

Since that time, the cap has more 
than doubled from $340,650 to $693,951. 
That’s 53 percent faster than the rate 
of inflation. 

The House-passed version of the National 
Defense Authorization bill expands 
the current cap to all contractor 
employees, not merely the top five executives, 
closing a loophole that was 
being exploited. 

The version of the DoD Bill before 
the Senate extends the cap only to the 
top 10 to 15 executives. 

However, Senator BOXER and I think 
it’s time to reconsider a fixed cap at 
the level of the President’s salary, 
which I should add was doubled by Congress 
to $400,000 since our previous proposal. 


That is more than generous. 

Surely the taxpayers should not be 
asked to pay the salary of a contractor 

more than the President makes, which 
is twice what any cabinet secretary 
makes. 

Keep in mind that this cap just limits 
how much Uncle Sam can be billed 
for, which is on top of whatever the 
company chooses to pay its employees 
out of its own pocket. 

Not only would our straightforward 
cap save man-hours in the Office of 
Federal Procurement Policy, which has 
to gather the data every year to determine 
the current convoluted cap, but it 
would save millions of dollars that 
need not be spent. 

Again, we cannot afford to go on 
wasting our increasingly limited defense 
dollars. 

We have to be more aggressive in 
weeding out waste in defense spending 
and this is one unnecessary expenditure 
that we can easily eliminate in 
favor of higher priorities. 

I urge my colleagues to join us in 
this commonsense cost cutting measure. 


I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. KLOBUCHAR). 
The Senator from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Madam President, I 
thank the Senator from Massachusetts 
for his amendment. He has spent a 
great deal of time in his life serving in 
the National Guard, including spending 
time in Afghanistan recently. He understands 
the burdens our National 
Guard men and women bear. I am very 
grateful for his careful attention to 
their needs. This is clearly an issue 
that needed to be addressed. We are 
proud to have it as part of our legislation. 


Again, my thanks to the Senator 
from Massachusetts as well as to my 
friend, Chairman LEVIN, for helping 

make this amendment possible. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
AMENDMENTS NOS. 1114, AS MODIFIED; 1220; 1146, 

AS MODIFIED; 1293, AS MODIFIED; 1206; 1304, AS 

MODIFIED; 1151, 1236, 1133, AS MODIFIED; 1287, AS 

MODIFIED; AND 1090, AS MODIFIED 

Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, I now 
ask unanimous consent that the following 
pending germane amendments 
be considered en bloc; that the amendments 
be modified with the changes 
that are at the desk, where applicable: 
Begich No. 1114, as modified; McCain 
No. 1220; Reed of Rhode Island No. 1146, 
as modified; Levin No. 1293, as modified; 
Boxer No. 1206; Chambliss No. 
1304, as modified; Pryor No. 1151; Nelson 
of Florida No. 1236; Blunt No. 1133, 
as modified; Murkowski No. 1287, as 
modified; and Brown of Massachusetts 
No. 1090, as modified; further, that the 
amendments be agreed to en bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendments (Nos. 1220, 1206, 
1151, and 1236) were agreed to. 

The amendments (Nos. 1114, 1146, 
1293, 1304, 1133, 1287, and 1090), as modified, 
were agreed to, as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 1114, AS MODIFIED 

At the end of subtitle E of title III, add the 
following: 

SEC. 346. ELIGIBILITY OF ACTIVE AND RESERVE 
MEMBERS, RETIREES, GRAY AREA 
RETIREES, AND DEPENDENTS FOR 
SPACE-AVAILABLE TRAVEL ON MILITARY 
AIRCRAFT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 157 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after section 2641b the following new section: 
‘‘§ 2641c. Space-available travel on department 
of defense aircraft: eligibility 

‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH BENEFIT PROGRAM.—
The Secretary of Defense may establish 
a program to provide transportation on 
Department of Defense aircraft on a space-
available basis. The program shall be conducted 
in a budget neutral manner. 

‘‘(b) BENEFIT.—If the Secretary establishes 
such a program, the Secretary shall, subject 
to section (c), provide the benefit equally to 
the following individuals: 

‘‘(1) Active duty members and members of 
the Selected Reserve holding a valid Uniformed 
Services Identification and Privilege 
Card. 

‘‘(2) A retired member of an active or reserve 
component, including retired members 
of reserve components, who, but for being 
under the eligibility age applicable to the 
member under section 12731 of this title, 
would be eligible for retired pay under chapter 
1223 of this title. 

‘‘(3) An unremarried widow or widower of 
an active or reserve component member of 
the armed forces. 

‘‘(4) A dependent that— 

‘‘(A)(i) is the child of an active or reserve 
component member or former member described 
in paragraph (1) or (2); or 

‘‘(ii) is the child of a deceased member entitled 
to retired pay holding a valid Uniformed 
Services Identification and Privilege 
Card and a surviving unremarried spouse; 
and 

‘‘(B) is accompanying the member or, in 
the case of a deceased member, is the surviving 
unremarried spouse of the deceased 
member or is a dependent accompanying the 
surviving unremarried spouse of the deceased 
member. 

‘‘(5) The surviving dependent of a deceased 
member or former member described in paragraph 
(2) holding a valid Uniformed Services 
Identification and Privilege Card, if the dependent 
is accompanying the member or, in 
the case of a deceased member, is the surviving 
unremarried spouse of the deceased 
member or is a dependent accompanying the 
surviving unremarried spouse of the deceased 
member. 

‘‘(6) Other such individuals as determined 
by the Secretary in the Secretary’s discretion. 


‘‘(c) DISCRETION TO ESTABLISH PRIORITY 
ORDER.—The Secretary, in establishing a 
program under this section, may establish an 
order of priority that is based on considerations 
of military needs and military readiness.’’. 


(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections at the beginning of such chapter is 
amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 2641b the following new item: 
‘‘2641c. Space-available travel on Depart


ment of Defense aircraft: eligi


bility.’’. 

(c) REQUIREMENT FOR COMPTROLLER GENERAL 
REVIEW.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General 
of the United States shall conduct a review 

December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8117 

of the Department of Defense system for 
space-available travel. The review shall determine 
the capacity of the system presently 
and as projected in the future and shall examine 
the efficiency and usage of space-
available travel. 

(2) ELEMENTS.—The review required under 
paragraph (1) shall include the following elements: 
(A) A discussion of the efficiency of the 
system and data regarding usage of available 
space by category of passengers under existing 
regulations. 
(B) Estimates of the effect on availability 
based on future projections. 
(C) A discussion of the logistical and managements 
problems, including congestion at 
terminals, waiting times, lodging availability, 
and personal hardships currently experienced 
by travelers. 
(D) An evaluation of the cost of the system 
and whether space-available travel is and 
can remain cost-neutral. 
(E) Other factors relating to the efficiency 
and cost effectiveness of space available 
travel. 
AMENDMENT NO. 1146, AS MODIFIED 
On page 114, strike line 2 and insert the following: 
the study; and 

(8) ensure the involvement and input of 
military technicians (dual status). 
AMENDMENT NO. 1293, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of subtitle C of title X, add the 
following: 

SEC. 1024. TRANSFER OF CERTAIN HIGH-SPEED 
FERRIES TO THE NAVY. 

(a) TRANSFER FROM MARAD AUTHORIZED.— 
The Secretary of the Navy may, subject to 
appropriations, from funds available for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2012, 
provide to the Maritime Administration of 
the Department of Transportation an 
amount not to exceed $35,000,000 for the 
transfer by the Maritime Administration to 
the Department of the Navy of jurisdiction 
and control over the vessels as follows: 
(1) M/V HUAKAI. 
(2) M/V ALAKAI. 
(b) USE AS DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SEALIFT 
VESSELS.—Each vessel transferred to 
the Department of the Navy under subsection 
(a) shall be administered as a Department 
of Defense sealift vessel (as such term 
is defined in section 2218(k)(2) of title 10, 
United States Code). 
AMENDMENT NO. 1304, AS MODIFIED 
Strike section 324 and insert the following: 

SEC. 324. REPORTS ON DEPOT-RELATED ACTIVITIES. 


(a) REPORT ON DEPOT-LEVEL MAINTENANCE 
AND RECAPITALIZATION OF CERTAIN PARTS 
AND EQUIPMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense in consultation 
with the military departments, shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees a 
report on the status of the Drawdown, Retrograde 
and Reset Program for the equipment 
used in support of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan 
and the status of the overall supply 
chain management for depot-level activities. 
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required under 
paragraph (1) shall include the following elements: 
(A) An assessment of the number of backlogged 
parts for critical warfighter needs, an 
explanation of why those parts became backlogged, 
and an estimate of when the backlog 
is likely to be fully addressed. 
(B) A review of critical warfighter requirements 
that are being impacted by a lack of 
supplies and parts and an explanation of 
steps that the Director plans to take to meet 
the demand requirements of the military departments. 


(C) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability 
of working with outside commercial 
partners to utilize flexible and efficient 
turn-key rapid production systems to meet 
rapidly emerging warfighter requirements. 
(D) A review of plans to further consolidate 
the ordering and stocking of parts and supplies 
from the military departments at depots 
under the control of the Defense Logistics 
Agency. 
(3) FLEXIBLE AND EFFICIENT TURN-KEY RAPID 
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS DEFINED.—For the purposes 
of this subsection, flexible and efficient 
turn-key rapid production systems are 
systems that have demonstrated the capability 
to reduce the costs of parts, improve 
manufacturing efficiency, and have the following 
unique features: 
(A) VIRTUAL AND FLEXIBLE.—Systems that 
provide for flexibility to rapidly respond to 
requests for low-volume or high-volume machined 
parts and surge demand by accessing 
the full capacity of small- and medium-sized 
manufacturing communities in the United 
States. 
(B) SPEED TO MARKET.—Systems that provide 
for flexibility that allows rapid introduction 
of subassemblies for new parts and 
weapons systems to the warfighter. 
(C) RISK MANAGEMENT.—Systems that provide 
for the electronic archiving and updating 
of turn-key rapid production packages to 
provide insurance to the Department of Defense 
that parts will be available if there is 
a supply chain disruption. 
(b) REPORT ON THE ALIGNMENT, ORGANIZATIONAL 
REPORTING, AND PERFORMANCE RATING 
OF AIR FORCE SYSTEM PROGRAM MANAGERS, 
SUSTAINMENT PROGRAM MANAGERS, 
AND PRODUCT SUPPORT MANAGERS AT AIR LOGISTICS 
CENTERS OR AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEXES.— 
(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—The Secretary of 
the Air Force shall enter into an agreement 
with a federally funded research and development 
center to submit to the congressional 
defense committees, not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
a report on the alignment, organizational reporting, 
and performance rating of Air Force 
system program managers, sustainment program 
managers, and product support managers 
at Air Logistics Centers or Air Logistics 
Complexes. 
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required under 
paragraph (1) shall include the following elements: 
(A) Consideration of the proposed reorganization 
of Air Force Materiel Command announced 
on November 2, 2011. 
(B) An assessment of how various alternatives 
for aligning the managers described 
in subsection (a) within Air Force Materiel 
Command would likely support and impact 
life cycle management, weapon system 
sustainment, and overall support to the 
warfighter. 
(C) With respect to the alignment of the 
managers described in subsection (A), An examination 
of how the Air Force should be organized 
to best conduct life cycle management 
and weapon system sustainment, with 
any analysis of cost and savings factors subject 
to the consideration of overall readiness. 
(D) Recommended alternatives for meeting 
these objectives. 
(3) COOPERATION OF SECRETARY OF AIR 
FORCE.—The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
provide any necessary information and background 
materials necessary for completion 
of the report required under paragraph (1). 
AMENDMENT NO. 1133, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of subtitle H of title X, add the 
following: 

SEC. lll. REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS FOLLOWING 
CERTAIN NATIONAL GUARD DUTY. 

Section 4312(c)(4) of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended— 

(1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘or’’ at 
the end; 
(2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph: 
‘‘(F) ordered to full-time National Guard 
duty (other than for training) under section 
502(f) of title 32 when authorized by the 
President or the Secretary of Defense for the 
purpose of responding to a national emergency 
declared by the President and supported 
by Federal funds, as determined by 
the Secretary concerned.’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1287, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of subtitle C of title I, add the 
following: 

SEC. 136. LIMITATION ON RETIREMENT OF C–23 
AIRCRAFT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Upon determining to retire 
a C–23 aircraft, the Secretary of the 
Army shall first offer title to such aircraft 
to the chief executive officer of the State in 
which such aircraft is based. 
(b) TRANSFER UPON ACCEPTANCE OF 
OFFER.—If the chief executive officer of a 
State accepts title of an aircraft under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall transfer title 
of the aircraft to the State without charge 
to the State. The Secretary shall provide a 
reasonable amount of time for acceptance of 
the offer. 
(c) USE.—Notwithstanding the transfer of 
title to an aircraft to a State under this section, 
the aircraft may continue to be utilized 
by the National Guard of the State in State 
status using National Guard crews in that 
status. 
(D) SUSTAINMENT.—Immediately upon 
transfer of title to an aircraft to the State 
under this section, the State shall assume all 
costs associated with operating, maintaining, 
sustaining, and modernizing the aircraft. 
AMENDMENT NO. 1090, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of title VI, add the following: 

Subtitle D—Pay and Allowances 

SEC. 641. NO REDUCTION IN BASIC ALLOWANCE 
FOR HOUSING FOR NATIONAL 
GUARD MEMBERS WHO TRANSITION 
BETWEEN ACTIVE DUTY AND FULL-
TIME NATIONAL GUARD DUTY WITHOUT 
A BREAK IN ACTIVE SERVICE. 

Section 403(g) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph: 

‘‘(6) The rate of basic allowance for housing 
to be paid a member of the Army National 
Guard of the United States or the Air 
National Guard of the United States shall 
not be reduced upon the transition of the 
member from active duty under Title 10, 
United States Code, to full-time National 
Guard duty under Title 32, United States 
Code, or from full-time National Guard duty 
under Title 32, United States Code, to active 
duty under Title 10, United States Code, 
when the transition occurs without a break 
in active service of at least one calendar 
day.’’ 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 1105 AND 1158 WITHDRAWN 

Mr. LEVIN. I ask unanimous consent 
now that the following two amendments 
be withdrawn: Collins No. 1105 
and Collins No. 1158. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 
The amendments are withdrawn. 

Mr. LEVIN. I note the absence of a 
quorum. 


S8118 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. VITTER. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. VITTER. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent to speak for up to 
10 minutes on a different topic than the 
Defense authorization bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM 

Mr. VITTER. Madam President, I 
come to the Senate floor to discuss another 
very important issue for our 
economy, which is the National Flood 
Insurance Program. 

The National Flood Insurance Program 
is a vital Federal program that 
helps provide flood insurance for properties 
all across the country. It is absolutely 
vital to citizens and to our economy, 
to the real estate market, to closings 
which cannot happen without this 
type of insurance in many instances. It 
is important all across the country. It 
is nowhere more important than in 
Louisiana, which, unfortunately, has 
pretty severe flooding risks. 

In the last few years, we have extended 
this necessary and important 
program but sometimes with real fits 
and starts and even lapses of the program. 
As you know, Madam President, 
in 2010, it got worse than ever. Congress 
allowed the National Flood Insurance 
Program to lapse four times—for 
a total of 53 days—for no good reason. 
It was not a money issue; it was not a 
cost issue; it was not a deficit issue because 
continuation of the program 
along the current structure does not 
raise deficit and debt. But we had these 
deadlines that kept approaching, and 
we let, in many instances—in four instances—
the deadline actually come 
and the program to lapse—four times 
in 2010, for a total of 53 days. 

That had enormous negative consequences. 
Real estate closings that 
were scheduled to happen had to be 
canceled. Here we are in the middle of 
a horrendous recession—clearly the 
worst since World War II—led by problems 
in the real estate market, and we 
had good, solid real estate closings 
which had to be put off and canceled 
for no good reason. Really crazy. 

We learned a little bit from that experience, 
and this year, in 2011, we have 
done better. We have continued the 
program without lapse. But I am afraid 
we are getting back into this habit of 
extremely short-term extensions, 
which brings with it the threat of 
lapses. We extended the program a few 
weeks ago, but we only extended it for 
the duration of the current CR, until 
this December 16. So, again, the program 
is set to completely expire nationwide 
this December 16. 

The ultimate solution is a long-term, 
full reauthorization of the flood insurance 
program. I support that full 6-

year bill, and we have voted out of the 
Senate Banking Committee a full, 
long-term, 6-year reauthorization bill. 
However, that is not going to pass into 
law between now and December 16, and 
it is pretty clear it is not going to pass 
into law for several months. 

That is why I am urging all of us to 
come together in a bipartisan fashion 
in the meantime to pass a clean extension 
of the program for the remainder 
of this fiscal year, through September 
30, 2012, or for some significantly long 
time within that year. I think that is 
needed right now to assure the real estate 
market there will not be disruptions, 
to take that threat and that uncertainty 
out of the market and out of 
the line of closings, that we want to 
encourage, we want to build, as we try 
to build up the real estate market and 
the economy in general. 

Because I believe this is clearly the 
right path, I have done two things. 
First, I have filed that extension, that 
clean extension—a bill under my 
name—through September 30, 2012. 
This is very similar to the extension 
we passed in late 2010 to get us through 
that fiscal year to September 30, 2011. 
That was my bill. We passed it unanimously 
here in the Senate, again, to 
avoid these deadlines and disruptions, 
which hamper economic recovery. So I 
filed that bill. That would be a clean 
extension of the program through September 
30, 2012. 

The second thing I did today is write 
Senator REID, the majority leader, and 
ask him to focus on this important program 
and the need for this extension as 
soon as possible, and to hotline it 
through the Senate, to ask for unanimous 
consent from both sides, all 
Members, as we did about a year ago, 
pass this so we extend this important, 
vital program through September 30, 
2012, or some similar, significant time-
frame. 

Again, I wrote Senator REID today to 
highlight this need. I will be following 
up with him. I have already followed up 
and talked to many other interested 
Members, starting with those leaders 
on the Banking Committee under 
whose jurisdiction this falls. 

This should be a no-brainer. This 
should be a completely nonpartisan or 
bipartisan exercise. This is not some 
big ideological dispute. This is simply 
extending, continuing a vital, necessary 
program without in any way increasing 
deficit and debt, in a way that 
we take out uncertainty, take out the 
specter of this necessary program lapsing 
yet again, as it did four times in 
2010, for a total of 53 days. 

We cannot let this lapse. And, quite 
frankly, we should not even go near the 
deadline before we extend it because 
that in and of itself—even if we do not 
technically allow it to lapse—creates 
uncertainty and chaos in the real estate 
market and disrupts real estate 
closings. 

We need every good real estate transaction 
we can get. We need every bit of 
additional economic activity we can 

get in this horrible economy, this recession 
that was led by a bad real estate 
market. We need to lead recovery 
with a recovering real estate market. 
So let’s do this in a simple, straightforward, 
commonsense, bipartisan way 
in that effort. We did it around my bill 
in that nearly full-year extension 
about a year ago. Let’s do it again. 

In closing, I want to underscore I am 
fully committed to the full, detailed 6-
year reauthorization bill. It has come 
out of the Senate Banking Committee. 
It needs to pass through the Senate. 
We need to resolve differences with the 
House. We need to pass that into law. 
But that is not going to happen between 
now and December 16, and it is 
not going to happen for several 
months. So, in the meantime, let’s remove 
the threat of disruption, of lapses 
in the program, of uncertainty. All of 
that is extremely harmful in this very 
fragile economy. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

KEYSTONE XL PIPELINE 

Mr. THUNE. Madam President, yesterday 
a number of us—I think the 
number now is somewhere in the 37-to-
38 ballpark of Senators—introduced 
legislation to expedite consideration of 
the Keystone XL Pipeline. What is interesting 
to me about all of this is that 
this is a project that has been literally 
reviewed and analyzed and studied and 
scrutinized now for the better part of 3 
years. 

In fact, they have had two comprehensive 
environmental evaluations 
and 3 years of study and review. Then, 
just recently, the Obama administration 
deferred a decision on the permit 
until after the 2012 elections, essentially 
putting off the decision for about 
18 months. 

Well, what is ironic and sort of interesting 
about that is this is a project 
which—after having been carefully vetted 
for the past 3 years, carefully reviewed, 
carefully studied, all of the environmental 
impact analysis done— 
would lead to all kinds of economic development 
for this country and job creation 
in many of the States that are 
impacted. 

Our State of South Dakota happens 
to be one of those. The pipeline traverses 
South Dakota as it heads down 
to refineries in other places in the 
country. But it would benefit my State 
by generating significant amounts of 
State and local tax revenue, revenue 
that is much needed by many of the 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8119 

local jurisdictions: school districts, 
counties, municipalities in the State of 
South Dakota. 

So there is a tremendous benefit to 
the construction of this pipeline to the 
various States that are impacted simply 
as a result of the additional tax 
revenue that would be raised by it. Add 
to that, in my State of South Dakota, 
the hundreds of jobs that would be created, 
the half billion dollars of economic 
activity that it would generate—
and this is very clear, from the 
State of South Dakota’s standpoint, 
which is why I believe our Governor 
has weighed in behind this project, 
that this is something that ought to at 
least be decided. There is no reason 
why, no rational reason why, no logical 
reason why this project would be delayed 
for 18 months simply to get past 
the next election. 

All of the work has been done. It 
seems to me at least there ought to be 
a decision made. We are talking about 
a $7 billion investment in this country 
and partly in Canada to get from where 
the oil sands are to get the oil to the 
refineries in the United States. If we 
look at the overall, as I said, economic 
impact, number of jobs created, it is 
pretty impressive—20,000 jobs, I think, 
is the estimate that it would create in 
this country. 

Those are jobs that, frankly, many of 
these States could certainly benefit 
from. Not to mention the fact that we 
are doing business with someone who is 
favorable and friendly to us. Canada is 
our biggest trading partner. I think we 
do about $640 billion annually in bilateral 
trade with Canada. Canada is a 
country with which we have a very 
good, strong trading relationship. It 
strikes me at least that if we are going 
to get oil from somewhere, it makes 
sense to get it from a country such as 
Canada as opposed to some of the other 
countries around the world that are 
much less friendly to the United 
States. 

In fact, the Keystone XL Pipeline 
would transport daily about 700,000 barrels 
of oil that would come through 
that pipeline. That is the equivalent of 
the amount that we get on a daily 
basis from Venezuela. 

So if you are thinking about getting 
700,000 barrels of oil from somewhere in 
the world, would it not make more 
sense to get it from Canada as opposed 
to Venezuela? I think in terms of what 
it does for our energy independence, for 
our energy security, dealing with a 
friendly nation, and making it more 
possible for our country to become less 
dependent upon foreign countries for 
this energy we need, it strikes me that 
at least this particular project makes a 
lot of sense. 

You have not only the economic impact, 
in terms of the activity it would 
create in the various States that would 
be impacted by it, the number of jobs 
created—as I said, 20,000 jobs is the estimate, 
with a $7 billion initial investment—
and all the tax revenue generated 
for State and local government 

along the way, but wouldn’t it be nice 
if the United States got into the situation 
where we were actually an energy 
exporter? 

Believe it or not, this is the first year 
in the last 62 years—and this is according 
to a story that ran in the Wall 
Street Journal yesterday—according to 
data released by the U.S. Energy Information 
Administration on Tuesday, 
the United States has sent abroad 753.4 
million barrels of everything from gasoline 
to jet fuel in the first 9 months of 
this year, while it imported 689.4 million 
barrels. That means that, for the 
first time in 62 years, in 2011—if this 
trend continues—and it looks as 
though it will—we will have exported 
more energy than we imported. We are 
still a net importer of petroleum, or 
oil. Hopefully, we can change that in 
the future by developing these resources 
we have in this country, one of 
which is the Bakken Reserve in North 
Dakota, which is generating enormous 
amounts of oil for this country. So we 
are still a net oil importer. 

In terms of refined gasoline and other 
products—refined energy—for the first 
time in 62 years, in 2011, we may be a 
net exporter of energy. I think that is 
an amazing data point, and it suggests 
this is something that could benefit 
enormously the American economy. 
Well, in order for that to happen, we 
have to have those resources we can 
get from the oil sands in Canada and 
bring them into the United States, 
where they are refined here and then 
either used here or sent abroad. But it 
is a way we can generate additional 
economic activity and jobs for our 
economy. 

This is a quote from the Global Director 
of Oil, which tracks energy markets. 
He said this trend we are going to 
see this year, 2011—again, first time in 
62 years we will be a net exporter of energy—
he says it looks like a trend that 
could stay in place for the rest of the 
decade. That is a remarkable change in 
terms of the flow of energy from this 
country. The last time we were a net 
exporter of energy was during World 
War II and shortly thereafter. It has 
been over 60 years. 

That is what a project such as this 
could do for our country—not just the 
immediate impact on those States 
through which this pipeline would traverse, 
in terms of the tax revenue that 
would be generated for State and local 
governments, but you also have the 
economic activity it creates in those 
States, the jobs it creates in those 
States, and what it does in order to 
move us increasingly away from dependence 
upon other countries in the 
world with whom we have, at best, 
shaky relationships to start with. 

Doing business with our largest trading 
partner—a country with which we 
do enormous amounts of trade every 
single year—seems to me at least to be 
a much better solution to this country’s 
energy needs than is getting that 
same amount of energy from other 
countries around the world. 

Madam President, 700,000 barrels a 
day is what the pipeline would transport 
into this country. That is the 
equivalent that we get on a daily basis 
from Venezuela. This is a project that 
ought to be decided. Whether it is decided 
affirmatively—obviously, as you 
can tell, I believe it should be. There 
are people in South Dakota who are opposed 
to this. There have been ample 
opportunities for public forums and 
hearings for people to comment on it. 
There have been lots of opportunities 
for those opposed to it to weigh in. 

Notwithstanding that, again, all the 
analyses have been done, the review 
done, and the studies are now completed, 
and they have indicated there is 
no reason for this not to move forward—
particularly given the fact that 
the State of Nebraska has negotiated 
with TransCanada, the builder of the 
pipeline, an agreement that would take 
it in a different direction through that 
State. All those hoops have been gone 
through, and the hurdles have been 
cleared. There isn’t a reason why this 
should be delayed another 18 months 
until after the next Presidential election—
other than, purely and simply, 
for political reasons. 

I hope we will be able to get good, 
strong support in the Senate for this 
legislation that would allow this to be 
decided in a more immediate time-
frame. As I said, right now, the administration 
has punted until after the 
next election, 18 months down the 
road. This legislation would enable this 
to be decided in the next couple of 
months—the next 60 days or so—subject, 
obviously, to some requirements 
that are in there—obviously, the 
strongest environmental requirements. 
But all that having been reviewed and 
having been accomplished, it is time 
for a decision on this important 
project. 

I hope we can get strong support in 
the Senate for this legislation. It has 
been introduced by a number of my colleagues, 
including the Senator from 
North Dakota, Senator HOEVEN, Senator 
JOHANNS from Nebraska, Senator 
MURKOWSKI from Alaska, and a number 
of others. I am a cosponsor. At last 
count, I think it has somewhere along 
the lines of 37 or 38 cosponsors. Incidentally, 
it passed in the House of Representatives 
already. So there is a vehicle 
out there that has passed one 
body of Congress. It is my hope we will 
be able to get action here in the Senate, 
and that it might be something we 
can do that would have an immediate 
impact on jobs. 

We always talk about shovel-ready 
projects. This is a shovel-ready project. 
This is ready to go. They are ready to 
start construction of this project. It 
has been through in the last 3 years all 
of the process this government can require 
it to go through in order to make 
sure this project should move forward. 

I think it is important for this body 
to act on this legislation and allow us 
to get to where we can get a decision 
on this project that will lead to more 


S8120 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

economic activity, more economic impact, 
more jobs for Americans, more 
energy security for this country, and 
hopefully, at the end of the day, a lessening 
of the dangerous dependence we 
have on foreign sources of energy, 
which we want to get away from. I 
think it is a win-win. I congratulate 
the sponsors of the legislation for the 
thoughtful way they have considered 
this and put this legislation together. I 
hope it gets consideration in the Senate. 


I yield the floor and suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, 
I ask unanimous consent that the 
order for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
FRANKEN). Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

THE ECONOMY 

Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, 
here we are, stuck again, and I 
want to speak just a little bit about 
getting this country moving again and 
getting Americans earning again. 

This great country of ours has endured 
a lot. We have endured despite 
the Civil War, the Great Depression, 
the two World Wars we have been in, 
the assassination of leaders, and the 
slaughter of innocents by terrorists. 
This great Nation of ours has confronted 
racism and civil unrest and political 
scandal at all levels, and always 
we have endured. 

In the throes of the Great Depression, 
the words of President Roosevelt 
reassured most Americans when he 
said: 

This great Nation will endure as it has endured. 
It will revive and it will prosper. 

Today, we are once again walking a 
rugged path, and the most recent example 
of the failure of the supercommittee 
has been the latest crash caused 
by super-rigid ideology and hyper-
political partisanship. Truth be told, 
we are in a most difficult time in our 
Nation’s economic life—still facing a 
decision of how to pay for an enormous 
debt. We owe this money mostly due to 
the misconduct of the money changers, 
the misuse of the Tax Code that favors 
special interests, and years of excessive 
spending. Yet there are Members of 
this Congress who propose we should 
first not address those underlying 
causes, and that those most responsible 
should not even have to pay their fair 
share toward reducing the debt. 

Instead, they propose we first take 
away from Social Security savings and 
Medicare health coverage for the elderly, 
and that we pull back the hand this 
Nation compassionately extends to 
those among us who are less fortunate. 
That would seem somewhat to erase all 
the progress we have made since those 
words of President Roosevelt by declaring 
war not on poverty but on the poor, 
the middle class, and the elderly. 

Because a host of our citizens face 
the grim problems of unemployment, 

the loss of their homes, and depletion 
of their savings, this Congress should 
fight any measure that unfairly inflicts 
pain on those least responsible for our 
present economic condition. The American 
people deserve a lot from their 
Congress. They deserve honesty. They 
expect us to work together, and they 
want action that is evenhanded. 

So as we move forward, I hope all my 
colleagues in the Senate and in the 
House will be guided by the words of a 
young President Kennedy, who said: 

Let us not seek the Republican answer nor 
the Democratic answer—but the right answer. 


In this spirit, can’t we work to pull 
our Nation out of its financial doldrums? 
Can’t we just ask: What is the 
right thing to do? 

Is it right that household income for 
the average American is actually in decline? 
Is it right that a hedge fund 
manager pays a lower tax rate than the 
person who cleans his office? Is it right 
that an oil company gets to write off 
$11 billion on its tax return because it 
polluted the Gulf of Mexico? Is it right 
that the Congress cannot agree on a 
deficit reduction plan because of partisan 
politics? 

The American people know what is 
right and they know what is not right. 
If we could just for 1 minute put all 
this partisanship aside and do what is 
right, then we might be able to balance 
our Nation’s books to get this country 
moving again and to get Americans 
employed and earning again. While we 
are at it, we might just restore the 
American public’s confidence in our 
government. 

I yield the floor and suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. SESSIONS. I ask that I be allowed 
to speak as if in morning business. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

FINANCIAL CRISIS 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, our 
country is facing a very serious financial 
crisis. 

We have seen what happened in Europe. 
We had some numbers on the 
stock market for a while. But if I understand 
what happened, there was a 
very real crisis facing the Europeans, 
and at the very last moment they took 
some action that was received positively. 


But they are not out of the woods yet 
and neither are we. Our debt is surging. 
We have gone from 5 years ago a $161 
billion deficit to a $450 billion deficit in 
President Bush’s last year to $1.2 trillion 
in President Obama’s first year, 
$1.3 trillion in President Obama’s second 
year, $1.2 trillion this year, and 

over $1 trillion predicted in deficits 
next year. 

We are going to have a proposal that 
comes before us to provide a payroll 
holiday, and it is sold as avoiding a tax 
increase. That is what the President 
says it is; we are avoiding a tax increase. 
So we ought to ask ourselves 
exactly how that is so and if it is so. 
Let me just say, I don’t think that is 
accurate. 

Two years ago, there was an employer 
payroll tax holiday that went 
only to the employer. It cost the Treasury 
$7.6 billion. Last year, as part of 
the final compromise, a bipartisan 
compromise, it was agreed that there 
would be a 2-percent tax holiday for 
working persons. So instead of paying 
6-plus percent on your withholding tax, 
you would pay 4. That cost $111 billion 
for that year. 

So the President said: If we don’t extend 
that, we are going to have a tax 
increase. But is he accurate? No, not 
really. This year’s proposal would be to 
reduce not the 4 percent but the 3.1 
percent, cutting the 6.2 withholding to 

3.1 for the employer and for the employee, 
and it would cost in 1 year $265 
billion—$265 billion that would not be 
going into the Social Security trust 
fund so that those who retire would 
have the retirement funds they have 
been promised. It would not go there. 
It weakens Social Security, the integrity 
of the system, in my opinion. 
But we are told not to worry, the 

U.S. Treasury will replace this $265 billion 
with Treasury money. But the 
problem is, the Treasury doesn’t have 
any money. The Treasury is already in 
debt. The Treasury is going to add another 
$1 trillion to the deficit this 
year. So now it is going to be added 
to—$265 billion more in one fell swoop, 
in one bill, right here at the end of the 
session. If you don’t vote for it, the 
President says, you are raising taxes 
on the American people. That is not an 
accurate statement. 
In an economic sense, in my opinion, 
the real essence of this is the U.S. 
Treasury will borrow $265 billion. Then, 
it will direct the Social Security Administration 
to send that money out in 
the form of a reduced withholding 
amount to be paid by workers. It is a 
direct borrow and it is a direct delivery 
of money and it uses Social Security 
trust fund moneys as a vehicle to 
transfer the money. In an economic 
sense, it borrows $265 billion to spend. 

How much is $265 billion? The super-
committee, the committee of 12, was 
trying to find $1,200 billion in savings 
over 10 years—not 1 year, 10 years. This 
one bill, this one proposal of $265 billion 
would be spent this 1 year. 

To achieve the committee of 12’s 
goal, they would simply have needed to 
have cut $120 billion a year for 10 years 
out of the entire Federal Government. 
They failed. Immediately now, the 
President and our majority leader are 
demanding this Congress pass an expenditure—
unexpected, not before 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8121 

done; nothing like such a large expenditure 
ever has come out of Social Security—
to spend another $265 billion. 
How will we ever get our house in 
order? I wish I could figure out a way 
to be supportive. I don’t see how I can 
be. 

I am pleased the Republicans are trying 
to work up a bill that would not 
cost as much as $265 billion and some 
way to pay for it. But, in truth, if we 
are going to be able to cut spending to 
pay for any kind of new expenditure, 
wouldn’t we be better to do what the 
committee of 12 tried to do: cut spending 
to reduce the debt? Shouldn’t we be 
seeking ways, if we are going to raise 
taxes, to use those taxes to pay down 
the debt, instead of taking 10 years 
under the President’s plan in a new tax 
that takes 10 years of that tax to pay 
for this 1 year’s expenditure? That is 
what the proposal is. 

I would say to my colleagues, this 
goes beyond partisan politics. This gets 
to the point: Are we in control of the 
Treasury and the spending of the 
United States of America? Can we defend 
what we are doing? 

Don’t think that is the only thing 
that is going to come up. I am the 
ranking Republican on the Budget 
Committee. We look at these numbers. 
This also will be taken care of in December, 
count on it: We are going to 
deal with the alternative minimum 
tax. That is going to cost $50 billion. 
We are going to deal with unemployment 
insurance, an additional $70 billion 
to extend those payments beyond 
90-some-odd weeks. We are going to fix 
the doctors payment, because we have 
to. We can’t cut the doctors that much, 
$21 billion. We are going to extend 
most, if not all, of the tax extenders we 
call them, $90 billion. The total is $500 
billion. 

Some of this we have been expecting 
to take care of. But we weren’t expecting 
or planning in any way to have a 
continuation of the payroll holiday 
that is going to cost $265 billion. I just 
would say to my colleagues, when are 
we going to think more rationally 
about it? 

I just heard: How are we going to pay 
for the AMT, unemployment insurance, 
doctors payments, and the tax extenders? 
Somebody said: We are going to 
count the savings from the war. The 
Congressional Budget Office will show 
a decline in expenses for the Iraq and 
Afghanistan war will be a savings. We 
can spend that. That is fraudulent, 
that is a gimmick, and it should not be 
acceptable. 

Everybody knows the war costs are 
going to be coming down and we have 
been planning for that. We can’t assume 
that money is available to spend 
willy-nilly. We were bringing the war 
costs down to bring the debt down, not 
to fund new spending. We need to bring 
the war costs down to try to reduce our 
debt and our deficit, not to fund new 
spending. But that is how they are 
going to do this, I have been told. I am 
not surprised because there is no other 
way they are going to do it. 

I just would share that. We will be 
voting in a little bit on this issue. I 
don’t know what the answer is. I don’t 
know how to fix our problems, but I 
know one thing. We remain in denial. 
Our country is in greater debt crisis 
than we realize. Mr. Erskine Bowles 
and Alan Simpson of President 
Obama’s debt commission say we are 
facing the most predictable financial 
crisis in our Nation’s history as a result 
of our debt, and we need to get serious 
about how to fix it. 

I thank the Chair and I yield the 
floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Maryland. 

Mr. CARDIN. I ask unanimous consent 
to speak as if in morning business. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

FREEING ALAN GROSS 

Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise to 
address the human rights issue of deep 
concern. 

For 2 years, since December 3, 2009, 
an American citizen and a Marylander, 
Alan Gross, has been imprisoned by the 
Cuban Government. For 2 years, he has 
been held by the Cuban authorities. 

Alan was in Cuba to help the country’s 
small Jewish community establish 
an Internet and improve its access 
to the Internet, which would allow the 
community to go online without fear of 
censorship or monitoring. 

After being held for 14 months without 
charge and then a cursory 2-day 
trial, he was convicted and sentenced 
to 15 years in prison. His appeal to the 
Cuban supreme court was denied in August 
of this year. 

Alan Gross is a caring husband and a 
father, a devoted man who has dutifully 
promoted U.S. foreign policy interests 
while serving the needs of thousands 
of foreign citizens, from Afghanistan 
to Haiti, over a career that has 
spanned more than 25 years of public 
service. 

Unfortunately, Alan has been caught 
in the middle of a conflict between two 
nations with a long and difficult relationship. 
But it is entirely unacceptable 
that his personal freedoms have 
been violated every day he continues to 
be incarcerated. 

Alan’s health has deteriorated during 
his imprisonment. He has lost 100 
pounds and suffers from a multitude of 
medical conditions, including gout, ulcers, 
and arthritis, that have worsened 
without adequate treatment. 

Last night, I had a chance to talk to 
his wife Judy, who had a chance to 
visit with her husband in Cuba earlier 
last month. Judy informs me that Alan 
Gross’s health conditions are deteriorating 
and that he is in need of adequate 
health care. In addition, his 
mother and daughter are both struggling 
with serious health care issues, 
and his wife is struggling to make ends 
meet. 

The Gross family should not have to 
suffer through such a trying period of 
time without Alan for support. Sentencing 
Alan Gross to 15 years behind 

bars also sentences his family to 15 
years without a husband, father, and 
son. There is no reason for the Gross 
family to continue to suffer the consequences 
of political gamesmanship 
any longer. I urge the Cuban Government 
to remember that this is a real 
man and a family who are suffering. 

I have already written the Cuban 
Government urging them, in the 
strongest possible manner, to immediately 
and unconditionally release 
Alan Gross. His continued imprisonment 
is a major setback in our bilateral 
relations, and it is unlikely any 
positive steps to improve that relationship 
can or will happen while he remains 
in prison. 

As a Senator and as a Marylander 
and as a fellow human being, I urge the 
Cuban Government to see Alan Gross, 
who has dedicated his life to serving 
others, for who he is—a man who believed 
he was helping others by stepping 
in when he saw a need. Enough is 
enough. I call on the Cuban Government 
to release Alan Gross immediately 
and to allow him to return to 
his family. 

Ms. MIKULSKI. Mr. President, Mr. 
Gross has worked with Cuban communities 
for many years. In 2009, he was 
working with USAID to assist Cuba’s 
Jewish community by improving their 
access to the Internet. As a former social 
worker who has worked for 25 
years in international development, he 
has a long record of helping people 
around the world to improve their 
lives. 

He was arrested and held without 
charge for 14 months and later sentenced 
to 15 years for crimes against 
the state. 

Mr. Gross is in failing health. He has 
lost 100 pounds and suffers from arthritis. 
He is being held in harsh conditions 
on trumped-up charges. 

His family in Maryland has had very 
limited contact with him. They, too, 
have faced health challenges and are 
facing significant financial hardships. 

I was hopeful that America and Cuba 
could move closer together—in trade, 
in community connections, and for individual 
families who have been separated. 
I thought these links would help 
open up Cuba, improve human rights, 
and enable their country to move toward 
democracy. Yet the case of Mr. 
Gross shows that Cuba is not serious 
about moving forward—for its own people 
or for its relations with the United 
States. 

If Cuba wants to improve relations 
with the United States, they need to 
release Mr. Gross now. I will not support 
easing restrictions or sanctions on 
Cuba until Mr. Gross is allowed to 
come home to Maryland. I thank my 
colleagues for joining me in standing 
up for Alan Gross and urge the Government 
of Cuba to release him immediately. 


I yield the floor and suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 


S8122 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that upon the conclusion 
of the postcloture time, the 
pending germane Feinstein amendment, 
No. 1126, be the pending business; 
that the Senate proceed to vote in relation 
to the following Feinstein amendments 
in the order listed: Feinstein 
amendment No. 1126, Feinstein amendment 
No. 1456; that there be 2 minutes 
equally divided in the usual form prior 
to the second vote—there will be more 
time than that prior to the first vote; 
that no amendment be in order to either 
amendment prior to the votes, and 
that all postcloture time be considered 
expired at 6 p.m. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Mr. MCCAIN. Reserving the right to 
object, and I will not object, for the 
benefit of our colleagues, after spirited 
discussions for a long period of time we 
have reached a compromise with the 
Senator from California on language 
concerning detainees and there are certain 
Members on my side who wanted a 
vote on the original amendment as 
written. We modified it, so that there 
will be a vote on the original Feinstein 
amendment and then on the one which 
is modified by agreement among most 
of the people involved. There may be 
some who will still oppose it, but we 
have reached an agreement among the 
Senator from California, the chairman, 
myself, the Senator from Idaho, the 
Senator from South Carolina and others, 
that I think will be agreeable to 
the majority of the Members. 

I suggest to my friend, the chairman, 
that when the vote starts at 6, perhaps 
we can line up the other remaining 
amendments, on some of which we hope 
to get voice votes, some of which will 
require recorded votes, as is the procedure 
under postcloture. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, this has 
not yet been ruled on. I want to modify 
very slightly what I said in the unanimous 
consent request. I said that the 
Senate proceed to votes in relation to 
the following Feinstein amendments. I 
should have said the Senate proceed to 
votes on the Feinstein amendments in 
the order listed. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 

objection to the request, as modified? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I have two 
other unanimous consent requests before 
we turn this over to the Senator 
from California. I ask unanimous consent 
that it be in order to make a point 
of order en bloc against the list of 
amendments in violation of rule XXII 
that is at the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, the points of 
order are sustained and the amendments 
fall. 

The nongermane amendments are as 
follows: 

Amendments Nos. 1255, 1286, 1294, 1259, 1261, 
1263, 1296, 1152, 1182, 1184, 1147, 1148, 1204, 1179, 
1137, 1138, 1247, 1249, 1248, 1118, 1117, 1187, 1211, 
1239, 1258, 1186, 1160, 1253, 1068, 1119, 1089, 1153, 
1154, 1171, 1173, 1099, 1100, 1139, 1200, 1120, 1155, 
1097, 1197; as being dilatory: No. 1174: as being 
drafted in improperly: No. 1291 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, in the 
minutes remaining between now and 6 

p.m. I hope we could roughly divide 
time on the amendment between the 
two sides. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. I would hope and I ask 
the time between now and 6 o’clock be 
divided between the two sides. We will 
yield immediately to Senator FEINSTEIN. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I have one 
more unanimous consent. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 1290 AND 1256 WITHDRAWN 

Mr. LEVIN. I ask unanimous consent 
that the following amendments be 
withdrawn: Rubio amendment No. 1290 
and Merkley amendment No. 1256. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 

objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendments are withdrawn. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1126 

Mr. LEVIN. I thank the Presiding Officer 
and all those who have been involved 
in working out this approach 
that allows us now to vote on two 
amendments, the original Feinstein 
amendment that is pending, plus an alternative 
which I think, hopefully, will 
command great support. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I ask how much time is 
remaining? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Eight 
minutes on each side. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I wish to give 3 minutes 
to the Senator from South Carolina, 
preceded by 2 minutes from the Senator 
from Idaho, and 2 minutes for the 
Senator from New Hampshire if she arrives. 


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Shall I go first? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I 
wish to explain what has happened this 
long afternoon. Originally some of us, 
namely Senators LEAHY, DURBIN, 
UDALL of Colorado, KIRK, LEE, HARKIN, 
WEBB, WYDEN, MERKLEY, and myself, 
realized that there was a fundamental 
flaw in section 1031 of the bill. There is 
a difference of opinion as to whether 
there is this a fundamental flaw. We 
believe the current bill essentially updates 
and restates the authorization 
for use of military force that was 
passed on September 18, 2001. Despite 
my support for a general detention authority, 
the provision in the original 
bill, in our view, went too far. The bill 
before us would allow the government 
to detain U.S. citizens without charge 
until the end of hostilities. We have 
had long discussions on this. 

The disagreement arises from different 
interpretations of what the current 
law is. The sponsors of the bill believe 
that current law authorizes the 
detention of U.S. citizens arrested 
within the United States, without 
trial, until ‘‘the end of the hostilities’’ 
which, in my view, is indefinitely. 

Others of us believe that current law, 
including the Non-Detention Act that 
was enacted in 1971, does not authorize 
such indefinite detention of U.S. citizens 
arrested domestically. The sponsors 
believe that the Supreme Court’s 
Hamdi case supports their position, 
while others of us believe that Hamdi, 
by the plurality opinion’s express 
terms, was limited to the circumstance 
of U.S. citizens arrested on the battlefield 
in Afghanistan, and does not extend 
to U.S. citizens arrested domestically. 
And our concern was that section 
1031 of the bill as originally drafted 
could be interpreted as endorsing 
the broader interpretation of Hamdi 
and other authorities. 

So our purpose in the second amendment, 
number 1456, is essentially to declare 
a truce, to provide that section 
1031 of this bill does not change existing 
law, whichever side’s view is the 
correct one. So the sponsors can read 
Hamdi and other authorities broadly, 
and opponents can read it more narrowly, 
and this bill does not endorse either 
side’s interpretation, but leaves it 
to the courts to decide. 

Because the distinguished chairman, 
the distinguished ranking member, and 
the Senator from South Carolina assert 
that it is not their intent in section 
1031 to change current law, these discussions 
went on and on and they resulted 
in two amendments: our original 
amendment, which covers only U.S. 
citizens, which says they cannot be 
held without charge or trial, and a 
compromise amendment to preserve 
current law, which I shall read: 

On page 360, between lines 21 and 22, insert 
the following: 

Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to affect existing law or authorities relating 
to the detention of United States citizens or 
lawful resident aliens of the United States or 
any other persons who are captured or arrested 
in the United States. 

I believe this meets the concerns of 
the leadership of the committee and 
this is presented as an alternative. 
There are those of us who would like to 
vote for the original amendment, 
which I intend to do, as well as for this 
modifying amendment. They will appear 
before you as a side-by-side, so everyone 
will have the chance to vote yea 
or nay on the original or yea or nay on 
the compromise. As I said, I would urge 
that we vote yes on both. 

This is not going to be the world as 
we see it postvote, but I will tell you 
this, the chairman and the ranking 
member have agreed that the modified 
language presented in the second vote 
will be contained in the conference; 
that they will do everything they can 
to contain this language in the conference. 



December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8123 

In the original amendment—my 
original amendment—which affects 
only U.S. citizens, that is not the case. 
They are likely to drop that amendment. 
So I wish to make the point by 
voting for both, and I would hope others 
would do the same. I think a lot has 
been gained. I think a clear understanding 
has been gained of the problems 
inherent in the original bill. I 
think Members came to the conclusion 
that they did not want to change 
present law and they wanted to extend 
this preservation of current law not 
only to citizens but to legal resident 
aliens as well as any other persons arrested 
in the United States. That 
would mean they could not be held 
without charge and without trial. So 
the law would remain the same as it is 
today and has been practiced for the 
last 10 years. 

I actually believe it is easy to say either 
my way or the highway. I want to 
get something done. I want to be able 
to assure people in the United States 
that their rights under American law 
are protected. The compromise amendment, 
which is the second amendment 
we will be voting on, does that. It provides 
the assurance that the law will 
remain the same and will not affect the 
right of charge and the right of trial of 
any U.S. citizen, any lawful legal alien 
or any other person in the United 
States. We have the commitment by 
both the chairman and the ranking 
member that they will defend that in 
conference. 

There are those who say I wish to 
just vote for the original amendment. 
That is fine. I am not sure it will pass. 
I don’t know whether it will pass, but 
in my judgment, the modification is 
eminently suitable to accomplish the 
task at hand and has the added guarantee 
of the support of the chairman, 
the ranking member in a conference 
committee with the House, which I 
think is worth a great deal. They have 
given their word, and I believe they 
will keep it. This RECORD will reflect 
that word. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1456 

I call up my amendment No. 1456, 
which is the modification. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 

clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from California [Mrs. FEINSTEIN] 
proposes an amendment numbered 
1456. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I ask unanimous 
consent that the reading of the amendment 
be dispensed with. 

There are others who wish to speak. 

The amendment is as follows: 

On p 360, between lines 21 and 22, insert the 
following: 

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to affect existing law or authorities, 
relating to the detention of United States 
citizens, lawful resident aliens of the United 
States or any other persons who are captured 
or arrested in the United States. 
I will yield the floor. 
Mr. LEVIN. How much time is there 
on our side? 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. One 
minute. 

Mr. LEVIN. I wanted to have a couple 
minutes. I wonder if Senator 
MCCAIN is here, if there is an objection 
to extending this by 10 minutes. Is 
there objection? I am not going to do 
that without him here. 

Madam President, if the other side is 
ready to go, they can start using the 
time on their side. 

Mr. GRAHAM. How much time do we 
have? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Eight 
minutes. You were allotted 3 minutes. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Will the Chair warn 
me when I use 2 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Yes. 

Mr. GRAHAM. To Senator FEINSTEIN, 
I do believe the second provision is 
where we want to be, at least from my 
point of view. To my colleagues, I 
never intended by 1031 to change the 
law imposing a greater burden on 
American citizens or more exposure to 
military detention, nor did I wish to 
have additional rights beyond what 
exist today. The problem I have with 
Senator FEINSTEIN’s amendment is it 
says the authority in this section for 
the Armed Forces of the United States 
to detain a person does not include the 
authority to detain a citizen of the 
United States without trial until the 
end of hostilities. 

Here is my concern. When you tell a 
judge, as a defense attorney: I want my 
client’s rights preserved regarding a civilian 
trial guaranteed in this section— 
and the end of hostilities could be 30 
years from now—Your Honor, if these 
rights mean anything, they need to attach 
now—if the civilian rights attach 
immediately upon detention, what I 
think would be a problem is that the 
military interrogation is lost. American 
citizens are not subject to a military 
commission trial. A lot of people 
on my side didn’t like that. 

I do want to make sure American 
citizens go into article III courts, but 
the law has been since World War II, if 
a person joins the enemy, even as an 
American citizen, they are subject to 
being detained for interrogation purposes. 
That is my goal and that has always 
been my goal. We can detain an 
American who has sided with al-Qaida, 
if they are involved with hostile acts, 
to gather intelligence, and that is a 
proper thing to have been doing. It was 
done in World War II when American 
citizens helped the Nazis. If an American 
citizen wants to help al-Qaida involved 
in a hostile act, then they become 
an enemy of this Nation. They 
can be humanely detained, and that is 
my concern about the Senator’s 
amendment; that it would take that 
away. 

We have common ground on the second 
amendment, and at the end of the 
day, the Senate has talked a lot about 
different things. This has been a discussion 
about something important 
and I, quite frankly, enjoyed it. 

I yield my time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Idaho. 

Mr. RISCH. First of all, let me say I 
think there has been an adequate com


promise that has been reached, and we 
are to have a side-by-side to vote on 
which will give everybody the opportunity 
to express themselves. Let me 
say that every single one of us on this 
floor has a goal to protect the rights of 

U.S. citizens. 
This country was founded by people 
who had just gone through some very 
difficult times with a government that 
was very oppressive on them, and they 
wrote the Constitution specifically to 
protect themselves and to protect individuals 
from the government. Those 
constitutional provisions today are as 
good as they were then. Every single 
one of us wants to see that American 
citizens are protected; that is, protections 
that take place in the case of 
criminal cases. 

In the case of a war, in the case 
where a U.S. citizen joins enemy combatants 
and fights against the United 
States, there is a different standard— 
although a delicate division—that exists. 
If we look at the provisions of section 
1031, where covered persons are defined, 
it is very clear it applies only to 
people who participated in the September 
11, 2001, attack on the United 
States, and it applies to people who are 
part of it or who have substantially 
supported al-Qaida and the Taliban or 
its associated forces and have actually 
committed a belligerent act or have directly 
participated in the hostilities. 

This is drawn very carefully and very 
narrowly so a U.S. citizen can—as my 
good friend from Kentucky always 
says—be able to file a writ of habeas 
corpus in the U.S. district court and 
have the U.S. district judge determine 
whether a person is actually an enemy 
combatant. If that U.S. district judge 
turns it down, that person does not 
necessarily go free. The U.S. Government 
can then charge them with treason 
or any one of a number of crimes, 
but they will be tried in the U.S. district 
court. 

On the other hand, if they are found 
to be an enemy combatant by a U.S. 
district judge whose decision is review-
able by the circuit court and if the Supreme 
Court chooses—by the Supreme 
Court, if they are found to be the 
enemy combatant, then they will, indeed, 
be subject to this. 

So this has been very narrow. People 
who are watching this and who are concerned 
about the civil liberties of U.S. 
citizens, as I am, as people in Idaho 
are, as people in every State in America 
are, under those circumstances, 
those people will be well protected. We 
will have the amendment here that everybody 
will have the opportunity to 
express themselves on. 

I will yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
yields time? 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I would 
ask that there be 5 additional minutes, 
evenly divided, so we could have 3 minutes 
left on our side. I would split that 
with the Senator from Illinois. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 


S8124 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

Mr. RISCH. We have no objection. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, we are 
soon going to be voting on two amendments. 
The first amendment that is 
proposed, the first Feinstein amendment 
restricts the authority that was 
available and is available currently to 
the President of the United States 
under the laws of war. That authority 
is if an American citizen joins a hostile 
Army against us, takes up arms 
against us, that person can be determined 
to be an enemy combatant. That 
is not me saying that; that is the Constitution. 
That is the Supreme Court of 
the United States in the Hamdi case: 
‘‘There is no bar to this Nation’s holding 
one of its own citizens as an enemy 
combatant.’’ 

The problem with the Feinstein 
amendment is that current authority 
of the President to find and designate 
an American citizen who attacks us, 
who comes to our land and attacks us 
as an enemy combatant would be restricted. 
We should not restrict the 
availability of that power in the President. 
Now we have an alternative. In 
the second Feinstein amendment, 
which I ask unanimous consent to be a 
cosponsor of— 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN. In the second amendment, 
we have an alternative because 
now it would provide the assurance 
that we are not adversely affecting the 
rights of the U.S. citizens in this language. 
Senator MCCAIN, Senator GRAHAM, 
and I have argued on this floor 
that there is nothing in our bill—nothing 
which changes the rights of the 

U.S. citizens. There was no intent to do 
it, and we did not do it. 
What the second Feinstein amendment 
provides is that nothing in this 
section of our bill shall be construed to 
affect existing law or authorities relating 
to the detention of the U.S. citizens 
or lawful resident aliens of the United 
States or any other persons who are 
captured or arrested in the United 
States. It makes clear what we have 
been saying this language already does, 
which is that it does not affect existing 
law relative to the right of the executive 
branch to capture and detain a citizen. 
If that law is there allowing it, it 
remains. If, as some argue, the law 
does not allow that, then it continues 
that way. We think the law is clear in 
Hamdi that there is no bar to this Nation 
holding one of its own citizens as 
an enemy combatant, and we make 
clear whatever the law is. It is unaffected 
by this language in our bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Illinois. 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I wish to 
thank my colleagues, Senators GRAHAM 
and LEVIN, and particularly Senator 
FEINSTEIN for working so hard to come 
to an agreement on section 1031. I was 
concerned that the United States 
would, for the first time in the history 
of this country, with the original language, 
authorize indefinite detention 
in the United States. But we have 

agreed to include language in this bill 
with the latter amendment that makes 
it clear that this bill does not change 
existing detention authority in any 
way. 

It means the Supreme Court will ultimately 
decide who can and cannot be 
detained indefinitely without a trial. 
To this day, the Supreme Court has 
never ruled on the question of whether 
it is constitutional to indefinitely detain 
a U.S. citizen captured in the 
United States. Some of my colleagues 
see this differently, but the language 
we have agreed on makes it clear that 
section 1031 will not change that law in 
any way. The Supreme Court will decide 
who will be detained; the Senate 
will not. 

I ask unanimous consent to be added 
as a cosponsor to the second pending 
amendment by Senator FEINSTEIN. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

All time has expired on the majority 
side. 

Mr. GRAHAM. How much time do we 
have remaining? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is 
41/2 minutes remaining. 

Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I would 
like to take the opportunity to end 
what I think has been a very good debate. 
Senator FEINSTEIN—and I know 
she is busy—said something on the 
floor that I wish to reiterate: that the 
second amendment which Senator DURBIN 
just suggested we have reached a 
compromise on, I am fully committed 
to making sure it stays in the conference 
report. Some folks in the House 
may have a problem, but I think it is 
good, sound law. 

The goal for me has never been to 
change the law, to put an American 
citizen more at risk than they are 
today. It is just to keep the status quo 
and acknowledge from the point of 
view of the Congress that the Obama 
administration’s decision to detain 
people as enemy combatants lies within 
the President’s power to do so. The 
Court has said in In re Quirin and in 
the Hamdi case that at a time of war 
the executive branch can detain an 
American citizen who decides to collaborate 
with the Nazis, as well as al-
Qaida, as an enemy combatant. They 
can hold them for interrogation purposes 
to collect intelligence. We don’t 
have to take anybody into court and 
put them on trial because the goal is to 
protect the Nation from another attack. 


The law also says no one, including 
an American citizen, can be held indefinitely 
without going to an article 
III court. Every person determined to 
be an enemy combatant by the executive 
branch has to have their case presented 
to an independent judiciary, and 
the government has to prove to a Federal 
judge by a preponderance of the 
evidence that they fall within this narrow 
exception. The government has 
lost about half the cases and won about 
half the cases. 

My concern with Feinstein 1 is that 
it would change the law; that the law 

would be changed for the first time 
ever, saying we cannot hold an American 
citizen who has collaborated with 
the enemy for intelligence gathering 
purposes. I think homegrown terrorism 
is growing. If an American citizen left 
this country and went to Pakistan, got 
radicalized in a madrasah, came back 
and started trying to kill Americans, I 
think we should have the authority to 
detain them as with any belligerent, 
just like in World War II, and gather 
intelligence as to whether somebody 
else may be coming. 

So that is what I want to preserve. 
With all due respect to Senator FEINSTEIN, 
I think her first amendment 
very much puts that in jeopardy. It is 
going to be confusing, litigation friendly, 
so let’s just stay with what we believe 
the law is. 

As to Senator DURBIN, he has one 
view, I have another, but we have a 
common view; that is, not to do anything 
to 1031 that would change the 
law. The ultimate authority on the law 
is not LINDSEY GRAHAM or DICK DURBIN, 
it is the Supreme Court of the 
United States. That is the way it 
should be, and that is exactly what we 
say here. We are doing nothing to 
change the law when it comes to American 
citizen detention to enhance it or 
to restrict whatever rights the government 
has or the citizen has. I think 
that is what we need to say as a nation. 

One last word of warning to my colleagues, 
the threats we face as a nation 
are growing. Homegrown terrorism is 
going to become a greater reality, and 
we need to have tools. Law enforcement 
is one tool, but in some cases 
holding people who have decided to 
help al-Qaida and turn on the rest of us 
and try to kill us so we can hold them 
long enough to interrogate them to 
find out what they are up to makes 
sense. When we hold somebody under 
the criminal justice system, we have to 
read them their rights right off the bat 
under the law or we don’t because the 
purpose is to gather intelligence. We 
need that tool now as much as at any 
other time, including World War II. 

Thank you all for a great debate. I 
hope we can vote no on Feinstein 1 and 
have a strong bipartisan vote on Feinstein 
2. 

With that, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is all 
time yielded back? 

Mr. GRAHAM. If anybody wishes to 
speak, speak now. 

All time is yielded back. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the question is on 
amendment No. 1126 offered by the Senator 
from California. 

Mr. LEVIN. Could I just interrupt 
with a unanimous consent request that 
prior to each vote there be 2 minutes of 
debate equally divided in the usual 
form and that it start with the vote 
after this one. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 

objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I ask for the yeas and 

nays. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8125 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? There appears to be 
a sufficient second. 

The question is on agreeing to 

amendment No. 1126. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk called 

the roll. 
The result was announced—yeas 45, 
nays 55, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 214 Leg.] 

YEAS—45 
Akaka Franken Moran 
Baucus Gillibrand Murray 
Bennet Hagan Nelson (FL) 
Bingaman Harkin Paul 
Boxer Johnson (SD) Reid 
Brown (OH) Kerry Rockefeller 
Cantwell Kirk Sanders 
Cardin Kohl Schumer 
Carper Lautenberg Shaheen 
Casey Leahy Tester 
Collins Lee Udall (CO) 
Conrad McCaskill Udall (NM) 
Coons Menendez Warner 
Durbin Merkley Webb 
Feinstein Mikulski Wyden 
NAYS—55 
Alexander Grassley Murkowski 
Ayotte Hatch Nelson (NE) 
Barrasso Heller Portman 
Begich 
Blumenthal 
Hoeven 
Hutchison 
Pryor 
Reed 
Blunt Inhofe Risch 
Boozman 
Brown (MA) 
Burr 
Chambliss 
Coats 
Coburn 
Cochran 
Inouye 
Isakson 
Johanns 
Johnson (WI) 
Klobuchar 
Kyl 
Landrieu 
Roberts 
Rubio 
Sessions 
Shelby 
Snowe 
Stabenow 
Corker Levin Thune 
Cornyn 
Crapo 
Lieberman 
Lugar 
Toomey 
Vitter 
DeMint Manchin Whitehouse 
Enzi McCain Wicker 
Graham McConnell 

The amendment (No. 1126) was rejected. 


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I move to 
reconsider the vote. 

Mr. MENENDEZ. I move to lay that 
motion on the table. 

The motion to lay upon the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1456 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
UDALL of Mexico). Under the previous 
order, there will be now be 2 minutes of 
debate equally divided prior to a vote 
on amendment No. 1456 offered by the 
Senator from California, Mrs. FEINSTEIN. 


The majority leader is recognized. 

Mr. REID. I ask unanimous consent 
that all votes relating to the Defense 
authorization bill be 10 minutes in duration, 
including final passage. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 

objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, a number 
of my colleagues have asked where we 
are. We are going to have probably 
three or four more rollcall votes, hopefully 
including final passage. There is 
also a package—and everyone should 
listen to this because at least 70 of us 
are affected. There is a package of 
about 70 amendments which have been 
cleared. However, as of the moment, 
there is an objection to that package 
being adopted. 

When I say the package has been 
cleared, what I am saying is there has 

been no objection to the substance of 
any of those 70 amendments. If there 
was an objection to the substance, they 
would not be cleared. So there is no objection 
to the substance of those approximately 
70 amendments, but you 
should be aware, because most of us 
have amendments in that cleared managers’ 
package, that unless that objection 
is removed, we cannot get that 
package adopted tonight. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I 
wonder if I might be able to make a few 
comments. 

This amendment is a compromise 
amendment. I think it is actually a 
very good amendment. I want to thank 
the chairman of the committee, the 
ranking member, and Senator GRAHAM, 
who participated in a rather lengthy 
discussion, and this is the result. 

The amendment—I will read it. It 
says: 

Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to affect existing law or authority relating 
to the detention of United States citizens or 
lawful resident aliens of the United States or 
any other persons who are captured or arrested 
in the United States. 

There is a commitment from both 
the chairman and the ranking member 
and Senator GRAHAM that they will defend 
this amendment in conference. So 
I hope everyone will vote for it because 
essentially it just supports present law, 
whether one supports the broad interpretation 
of present law, or one supports 
a more narrow interpretation of 
present law. There is no change in law. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

The Senator from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I very 
much support this amendment, I am a 
cosponsor, and I hope we can all vote 
for it. This does what we said—those of 
us who wrote this bill—the bill does 
and does not do all along. It does not 
change current law. This amendment 
reinforces the point that this bill does 
not change current law relative to this 
section of this bill. The section of this 
bill does not change current law relative 
to the detention of people in the 
United States. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I will 
not repeat what the chairman said except 
that I would like to thank Senator 
FEINSTEIN for her willingness to sit 
down and negotiate with us, and Senator 
DURBIN, who has been a passionate 
advocate. I would also like to thank all 
of the people who came to the floor so 
often. I think the Senate is a better institution 
as a result of the debate, and 
I am sure the Senate and the American 
people are much better informed on 
this very important national security 
aspect of this bill. 

I thank my colleagues. I urge an aye 
vote. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the amendment. 


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I ask for the yeas 
and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? There is a sufficient 
second. 

The clerk will call the roll. 
The assistant legislative clerk called 
the roll. 
The result was announced—yeas 99, 
nays 1, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 215 Leg.] 

YEAS—99 
Akaka Franken Mikulski 
Alexander Gillibrand Moran 
Ayotte Graham Murkowski 
Barrasso Grassley Murray 
Baucus Hagan Nelson (NE) 
Begich Harkin Nelson (FL) 
Bennet Hatch Paul 
Bingaman Heller Portman 
Blumenthal Hoeven Pryor 
Blunt Hutchison Reed 
Boozman Inhofe Reid 
Boxer Inouye Risch 
Brown (MA) Isakson Roberts 
Brown (OH) Johanns Rockefeller 
Burr Johnson (SD) Rubio 
Cantwell Johnson (WI) Sanders 
Cardin Kerry Schumer 
Carper Kirk Sessions 
Casey Klobuchar Shaheen 
Chambliss Kohl Shelby 
Coats Landrieu Snowe 
Coburn Lautenberg Stabenow 
Cochran Leahy Tester 
Collins Lee Thune 
Conrad Levin Toomey 
Coons Lieberman Udall (CO) 
Corker Lugar Udall (NM) 
Cornyn Manchin Vitter 
Crapo McCain Warner 
DeMint McCaskill Webb 
Durbin McConnell Whitehouse 
Enzi Menendez Wicker 
Feinstein Merkley Wyden 
NAYS—1 
Kyl 

The amendment (No. 1456) was agreed 
to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1414 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, there will be 2 minutes 
of debate, equally divided, prior to 
a vote on amendment No. 1414, offered 
by the Senator from New Jersey, Mr. 
MENENDEZ, and the Senator from Illinois, 
Mr. KIRK. 

The Senator from New Jersey. 

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, the 
Menendez-Kirk bipartisan amendment 
is sponsored by over half of the Members 
of the Senate. It makes it very 
clear that the Treasury Department’s 
own determination under the PATRIOT 
Act that the Iranian Central 
Bank is the central source for money 
for Iran’s nuclear march toward a nuclear 
weapon needs to be addressed. 
That is exactly what we do in this 
amendment. It creates the maximum 
effort against the Iranians, and it ensures 
that we do not have any oil disruption 
as a result of those sanctions 
by giving the President the opportunity 
to make a determination that 
there are sufficient oil supplies so as 
not to create a disruption, and it gives 
him in addition a national security 
waiver. 

This is the maximum opportunity to 
have a peaceful diplomacy tool to stop 
Iran’s march to nuclear weapons. 

I urge my colleagues to give it a 
strong bipartisan vote. 


S8126 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I support the amendment. 
I think this amendment is vital 
at this time to send a strong signal to 
Iran, which recently tried to pull off 
the assassination of the Saudi Ambassador 
here in Washington, DC. It is 
long overdue, and it is too bad that the 
United States has to do it by ourselves 
rather than having the U.N. Security 
Council act. This is a strong amendment. 
I think it is very important and, 
again, I strongly support it. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Illinois. 

Mr. KIRK. Mr. President, this Menendez-
Kirk amendment is a strong, bipartisan 
amendment. Over half of the Senate 
has formally cosponsored it. I urge 
its adoption, especially after the bomb 
plot in Washington, DC, the IAEA report 
on nuclear development in Iran, 
and the overrunning of our British 
ally’s embassy site by Iran 2 days ago. 

I yield the floor. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is all 

time yielded back? 

Mr. MCCAIN. Yes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the amendment. 


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I ask 
for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk called 

the roll. 
The result was announced—yeas 100, 
nays 0, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 216 Leg.] 

YEAS—100 
Akaka Gillibrand Moran 
Alexander Graham Murkowski 
Ayotte Grassley Murray 
Barrasso 
Baucus 
Begich 
Hagan 
Harkin 
Hatch 
Nelson (NE) 
Nelson (FL) 
Paul 
Bennet 
Bingaman 
Blumenthal 
Blunt 
Boozman 
Boxer 
Brown (MA) 
Brown (OH) 
Burr 
Cantwell 
Heller 
Hoeven 
Hutchison 
Inhofe 
Inouye 
Isakson 
Johanns 
Johnson (SD) 
Johnson (WI) 
Kerry 
Portman 
Pryor 
Reed 
Reid 
Risch 
Roberts 
Rockefeller 
Rubio 
Sanders 
Cardin Kirk Schumer 
Carper Klobuchar Sessions 
Casey Kohl Shaheen 
Chambliss Kyl Shelby 
Coats Landrieu Snowe 
Coburn Lautenberg Stabenow 
Cochran Leahy Tester 
Collins Lee Thune 
Conrad 
Coons 
Corker 
Cornyn 
Crapo 
DeMint 
Durbin 
Enzi 
Levin 
Lieberman 
Lugar 
Manchin 
McCain 
McCaskill 
McConnell 
Menendez 
Toomey 
Udall (CO) 
Udall (NM) 
Vitter 
Warner 
Webb 
Whitehouse 
Feinstein 
Franken 
Merkley 
Mikulski 
Wicker 
Wyden 

The amendment (No. 1414) was agreed 
to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, if we have 
this consent agreement that I am going 
to ask in just a second, we will have 

four votes remaining for the evening, 
and that would be all. We will be in session 
tomorrow. We have some things 
we need to do procedurally, but there 
shouldn’t be any votes tomorrow. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that upon disposition of S. 1867, 
the Defense authorization bill, the Senate 
proceed to vote on the Reid of Nevada 
motion to proceed to Calendar No. 
238, S. 1917; that there be 2 minutes 
equally divided between the two leaders 
or their designees prior to the vote; 
that upon disposition of the Reid motion 
to proceed, it be in order for the 
Republican leader or his designee to 
move to proceed to Calendar No. 244, S. 
1931; that there be 2 minutes of debate 
equally divided between the two leaders 
or their designees prior to the vote; 
that both motions to proceed be subject 
to a 60 affirmative-vote threshold; 
finally, that the cloture motion relative 
to the motion to proceed to S. 
1917 be vitiated. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1209 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, there will be 2 minutes 
of debate equally divided prior to 
a vote on amendment No. 1209 offered 
by the Senator from Florida, Mr. NELSON. 


The Senator from Florida. 

Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, 
it is my understanding that both 
leaders have decided to accept this. So 
I don’t see any need for a rollcall vote. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the Senator. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is all 
time yielded back? 

Mr. LEVIN. Our time is yielded back. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the amendment. 


The amendment (No. 1209) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I move to 
reconsider the vote. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1080 WITHDRAWN 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, there will now be 2 
minutes of debate equally divided prior 
to a vote on amendment No. 1080, offered 
by the Senator from Vermont, 
Mr. LEAHY. 

The Senator from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, Senator 
LEAHY authorized me and told me he 
was withdrawing this amendment relative 
to military custody because of all 
of the actions which have been previously 
taken. I am very confident that 
is what he told me, so I am going to 
withdraw that amendment on his behalf. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment is withdrawn. 


AMENDMENT NO. 1274 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, there will now be 2 

minutes of debate equally divided prior 
to a vote on amendment No. 1274, offered 
by the Senator from Alabama, 
Mr. SESSIONS. 

The Senator from Alabama. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. President, this 
amendment is crafted to simply clarify 
and affirm what appears to be the law, 
and logic tells us should be the law 
today. 

If an individual is apprehended as a 
prisoner of war, they are detained 
under the laws of war until the conflict 
ends. But if, after being detained or 
when they are detained, it is determined 
they have committed crimes 
against the laws of war, they can be 
tried for those crimes. 

There is a slight ambiguity. I think 
it is pretty clear the military would 
have a right to continue to detain 
them as a prisoner of war if they were 
not convicted of the much higher burden 
crime against the laws of war. 

So the essence of this is simply to 
say what the judge said in the case involving 
the African Embassy bombing, 
the Ghailani case. The guy was acquitted 
of 284 out of 285 counts, and the 
judge said: You probably would be detained 
under the laws of war. So this 
would clarify that. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who 
yields time? 

The Senator from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I think 
this can be accepted on a voice vote. I 
have great problems with it, but I 
think there is probably a majority here 
that will favor it and a distinct minority 
perhaps that would not. But it is 
something which basically doesn’t add 
to the existing law, which says this is 
theoretically possible, and all this does 
is say it is possible one could be acquitted 
of a criminal case and still be held 
as an enemy combatant. 

Mr. PAUL. I object. I ask for the yeas 
and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The question is on agreeing to the 
amendment. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

The result was announced—yeas 41, 
nays 59, as follows: 

[Rollcall Vote No. 217 Leg.] 

YEAS—41 
Alexander Graham Moran 
Ayotte Grassley Murkowski 
Barrasso Hatch Portman 
Blunt 
Boozman 
Hoeven 
Hutchison 
Pryor 
Risch 
Burr Inhofe Roberts 
Chambliss 
Coats 
Coburn 
Cochran 
Cornyn 
Crapo 
DeMint 
Isakson 
Johanns 
Johnson (WI) 
Kyl 
Lieberman 
Lugar 
Manchin 
Rubio 
Sessions 
Shelby 
Thune 
Toomey 
Vitter 
Enzi McConnell Wicker 
NAYS—59 
Akaka Blumenthal Cardin 
Baucus Boxer Carper 
Begich Brown (MA) Casey 
Bennet Brown (OH) Collins 
Bingaman Cantwell Conrad 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8127 

Coons Landrieu Reid 
Corker Lautenberg Rockefeller 
Durbin Leahy Sanders 
Feinstein Lee Schumer 
Franken Levin Shaheen 
Gillibrand McCain Snowe 
Hagan 
Harkin 
Heller 
Inouye 
Johnson (SD) 
Kerry 
Kirk 
Klobuchar 
McCaskill 
Menendez 
Merkley 
Mikulski 
Murray 
Nelson (NE) 
Nelson (FL) 
Paul 
Stabenow 
Tester 
Udall (CO) 
Udall (NM) 
Warner 
Webb 
Whitehouse 
Kohl Reed Wyden 

The amendment (No. 1274) was rejected. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader is recognized. 

THE 9,000TH VOTE OF SENATOR FRANK 
LAUTENBERG 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, the next 
rollcall vote will be the 9,000th vote 
cast by Senator FRANK LAUTENBERG. 
Senator LAUTENBERG, the senior Senator 
from New Jersey, has always been 
a fighter for his State, for progressive 
causes. 

Before coming to the Senate, Senator 
LAUTENBERG served his country admirably 
in World War II, graduated from 
Colombia Business School, and became—
and this is an understatement— 
a successful businessman. 

The determination that made him 
successful in the private sector served 
him well in the Senate, where he 
worked tirelessly on behalf of the State 
of New Jersey. Frank tried to retire 
once—in 2000—but he just couldn’t stay 
away from serving the State and the 
Nation and returned to the Senate a 
little over a year after he had retired. 

As the top Democrat on the Senate 
Budget Committee, Senator LAUTENBERG 
negotiated the balanced budget 
amendment of 1997, which restored fiscal 
discipline while cutting taxes for 
students and families with children. 

He has been at the cutting edge of environmental 
issues in this country 
since he came to the Senate. He has 
worked as a member of the Environment 
and Public Works Committee, 
doing a good job with highways, railways, 
and runways in New Jersey, and 
has done that in conjunction with 
being a member of the Environment 
and Public Works Committee but also 
the Appropriations Committee. 

During his time in the Senate, he has 
done things that will be a lasting mark 
on his career, his legacy, forever. Our 
Nation’s roads are safer because he was 
responsible for our passing the 21-year-
old drinking age. He established a national 
drunk driving standard, a standard 
throughout the country. He banned 
triple-trailer trucks—so-called killer 
trucks—from the roads of New Jersey 
and many other States. He dedicated 
his time in the Senate to holding terrorists 
accountable and protecting New 
Jersey’s ports, which are important to 
all of us, not only to New Jersey. 

Senator LAUTENBERG has done many 
things. He authored the domestic violence 
gun ban—the only significant gun 
legislation to become law since the 
Brady bill—which prevents convicted 
abusers from buying guns. 

The thing I recognize as very important—
one of my boys couldn’t stand 
the cigarette smoke in airplanes. Even 
though the airlines tried to set up a 
standard for smoking, you know that if 
there was smoking in the airplane, the 
fact that you were someplace else in 
the airplane didn’t matter; everybody 
got the secondhand smoke. He fought 
this and banned smoking on airplanes, 
which I will always remember, and certainly 
my boy Key will always remember 
that. 

For three decades, FRANK LAUTENBERG 
has left a mark that is very impressive, 
and his 9,000 votes will be 
something people will look back on and 
determine that FRANK LAUTENBERG is 
one of the most productive Senators in 
the history of our country. 

Congratulations, Frank. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Republican 
leader is recognized. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
would like to associate myself with the 
remarks of the majority leader and 
congratulate the Senator from New 
Jersey on this milestone in his long 
and very distinguished career here in 
the Senate. 

(Applause.) 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
UDALL of Colorado). The Senator from 
New Jersey. 

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I 
know we want to hear from our colleague 
shortly. I wish to join in recognizing 
over a quarter of a century of 
distinguished service from the senior 
Senator from New Jersey on this 
9,000th vote, which is only emblematic 
of the type of work he has done, which 
is with a view toward not the next election 
but the next generation, whether 
it is saving lives by raising the drinking 
age; whether it is allowing workers 
to understand and have the right to 
know the toxic chemicals they were 
working with and the community in 
which those toxic chemicals were located; 
whether it is making sure all of 
us don’t have to breathe secondhand 
smoke on an airplane; whether it is 
making sure that those who pilfer the 
land and contaminated it were held responsible 
to clean it up in the Super-
fund or to have cleaner air to breathe, 
FRANK LAUTENBERG’s legislation has 
touched millions of lives not only in 
New Jersey but across the Nation, and 
we salute him for his tremendous service. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The senior 
Senator from New Jersey. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
thank the leader for his kind words and 
the help he has given me to make some 
of the decisions we labored with. I 
thank my colleague, the Senator from 
New Jersey, BOB MENENDEZ, who has 
worked very hard to do his share in 
moving legislation and doing the right 
thing by the people in our State and 
our country. 

One of the things that is, to me, pretty 
important is when I said to my 
mother in 1982: Mom, I am going to run 
for the U.S. Senate; I think there is an 

opportunity there. I was running ADP 
and in quite good company at the time. 
So she said: Frank, what do you need it 
for? I said: Mom, I don’t need it. On the 
night of the election, we were gathered 
at my house in New Jersey—and my 
mother was then committed to a 
wheelchair—and she had tears running 
down her face. I said: Mom, you asked 
me why I needed it. I said: Why are you 
crying? She said: Because I always 
wanted you to win. 

The people in New Jersey were very 
kind over these years, electing me five 
times to the Senate and giving me the 
honor and the opportunity to give 
something back to this country of 
ours. 

I came from a family that was a poor 
family, immigrant family. My parents 
were young when they were brought by 
their parents to America. They were 
hoping that maybe good things could 
happen as a result of their becoming 
Americans. So I stand here and I am 
glad we are not taking a vote on 
whether I should be commended for 
this. I might not get all the votes you 
gave me because you didn’t ask for 
unanimous consent, but nevertheless, 
it passed, and so I thank all of you, 
even those with whom I might occasionally 
disagree. It is shocking, but it 
does happen here. But I have respect 
for everybody who is sent here by their 
constituents from every State in the 
country and for their point of view. It 
doesn’t mean I agree, but I have respect 
for the fact that we can say what 
we want in this free country of ours, 
say things that sometimes maybe we 
wish we had not said, but we have a 
chance to speak out on the things we 
believe in. 

I thank all of my colleagues for their 
service and for the accolades given to 
me this night. 

With that, I yield the floor. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1087 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There 
will now be 2 minutes of debate on the 
Leahy amendment No. 1087. 

Who yields time? 

The Senator from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the germane 
Leahy amendment No. 1087 be modified 
with the changes at the desk; further, 
that the amendment, as modified, be 
agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from South Dakota. 

Mr. THUNE. Reserving the right to 
object, could the manager clarify exactly 
what that is? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. There was a provision in 
the bill relative to the Freedom of Information 
Act which, by agreement, 
was modified. 

Mr. THUNE. This doesn’t have anything 
to do with the managers’ package. 


Mr. MCCAIN. It is agreeable on both 
sides. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 


S8128 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

Without objection, the amendment, 
as modified, is agreed to. 
The amendment (No. 1087), as modified, 
is as follows: 
Strike section 1044 and insert the following: 


SEC. 1044. TREATMENT UNDER FREEDOM OF INFORMATION 
ACT OF CERTAIN SENSITIVE 
NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION. 


(a) CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY INFORMATION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense 
may exempt certain Department of Defense 
information from disclosure under section 
552 of title 5, United States Code, upon a 
written determination that— 
(A) the information is Department of Defense 
critical infrastructure security information; 
and 
(B) the public interest in the disclosure of 
such information does not outweigh the Government’s 
interest in withholding such information 
from the public. 
(2) INFORMATION PROVIDED TO STATE OR 
LOCAL FIRST RESPONDERS.—Critical infrastructure 
security information covered by a 
written determination under this subsection 
that is provided to a State or local government 
to assist first responders in the event 
that emergency assistance should be required 
shall be deemed to remain under the 
control of the Department of Defense. 
(b) MILITARY FLIGHT OPERATIONS QUALITY 
ASSURANCE SYSTEM.—The Secretary of Defense 
may exempt information contained in 
any data file of the Military Flight Operations 
Quality Assurance system of a military 
department from disclosure under section 
552 of title 5, United States Code, upon 
a written determination that the disclosure 
of such information in the aggregate (and 
when combined with other information already 
in the public domain) would reveal 
sensitive information regarding the tactics, 
techniques, procedures, processes, or operational 
and maintenance capabilities of military 
combat aircraft, units, or aircrews. Information 
covered by a written determination 
under this subsection shall be exempt 
from disclosure under such section 552 even 
when such information is contained in a data 
file that is not exempt in its entirety from 
such disclosure. 
(c) DELEGATION.—The Secretary of Defense 
may delegate the authority to make a determination 
under subsection (a) or (b) to any 
civilian official in the Department of Defense 
or a military department who is appointed 
by the President, by and with the advice 
and consent of the Senate. 
(d) TRANSPARENCY.—Each determination of 
the Secretary, or the Secretary’s designee, 
under subsection (a) or (b) shall be made in 
writing and accompanied by a statement of 
the basis for the determination. All such determinations 
and statements of basis shall 
be available to the public, upon request, 
through the office of the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Public Affairs. 
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) The term ‘‘Department of Defense critical 
infrastructure security information’’ 
means sensitive but unclassified information 
that, if disclosed, would reveal 
vulnerabilities in Department of Defense 
critical infrastructure that, if exploited, 
would likely result in the significant disruption, 
destruction, or damage of or to Department 
of Defense operations, property, or facilities, 
including information regarding the 
securing and safeguarding of explosives, hazardous 
chemicals, or pipelines, related to 
critical infrastructure or protected systems 
owned or operated by or on behalf of the Department 
of Defense, including vulnerability 
assessments prepared by or on behalf of the 
Department, explosives safety information 
(including storage and handling), and other 
site-specific information on or relating to installation 
security. 

(2) The term ‘‘data file’’ means a file of the 
Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance 
system that contains information acquired 
or generated by the Military Flight 
Operations Quality Assurance system, including 
the following: 
(A) Any data base containing raw Military 
Flight Operations Quality Assurance data. 
(B) Any analysis or report generated by 
the Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance 
system or which is derived from 
Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance 
data. 
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am 
pleased that the Senate has unanimously 
adopted my Freedom of Information 
Act, FOIA, amendment to the 
National Defense Authorization Act. 
This measure appropriately narrows 
the overbroad exemptions to FOIA contained 
in the bill and will help ensure 
that the American public has access to 
important information about potential 
threats to their health and safety at or 
near Department of Defense facilities. 

I thank Senator LEVIN and Senator 
MCCAIN for working with me on this 
issue and including this language, with 
our agreed-to modifications, in the 
managers’ package for this bill. I also 
thank the many open government 
groups from across the political spectrum 
that support this amendment, including 
OpentheGovernment.org, the 
Liberty Coalition, the Sunlight Foundation 
and the American Library Association. 


For more than 45 years, the Freedom 
of Information Act has been a cornerstone 
of open government and a hallmark 
of our democracy, ensuring that 
the American people have access to 
their Government’s records. The addition 
of this measure to the National 
Defense Authorization Act will help ensure 
that FOIA remains a viable tool 
for access to Department of Defense information 
that impacts the health and 
safety of the American public. 

I am particularly pleased that the 
language adopted by the Senate includes 
a public interest balancing test 
that requires the Secretary of Defense 
to consider whether the Government’s 
interests in withholding critical infrastructure 
information are outweighed 
by other public interests. This improvement 
to the bill will help ensure 
that truly sensitive information is protected, 
while allowing the public to obtain 
important information about potential 
health and safety concerns. 

This language adopted by the Senate 
strikes an appropriate balance between 
safeguarding the ability of the Department 
of Defense to perform its vital 
mission and the public’s right to know. 
I am pleased that this measure has 
been included in this important legislation 
with the unanimous support of the 
Senate. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I move to 
reconsider the vote on the Leahy 
amendment. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1202, AS MODIFIED 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There 
will now be 2 minutes of debate on the 
Udall amendment. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, there is a 
pending amendment which apparently 
the clerk will need to report at this 
point. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Udall amendment is pending. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the pending 
germane Udall of New Mexico amendment 
No. 1202 be modified with the 
changes at the desk; further, that the 
amendment, as modified, be agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, the amendment, 
as modified, is agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 1202), as modified, 
is as follows: 

At the end of subtitle B of title VIII, add 
the following: 

SEC. 827. APPLICABILITY OF BUY AMERICAN ACT 
TO PROCUREMENT OF PHOTOVOLTAIC 
DEVICES BY DEPARTMENT 
OF DEFENSE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2534 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection: 
‘‘(k) PROCUREMENT OF PHOTOVOLTAIC DEVICES.— 


‘‘(1) CONTRACT REQUIREMENT.—The Secretary 
of Defense shall ensure that each contract 
described in paragraph (2) awarded by 
the Department of Defense includes a provision 
requiring any photovoltaic devices installed 
pursuant to the contract, or pursuant 
to a subcontract under the contract, to comply 
with the provisions of chapter 83 of title 
41 (commonly known as the ‘Buy American 
Act’), without regard to whether the contract 
results in ownership of the photo-
voltaic devices by the Department. 

‘‘(2) CONTRACTS DESCRIBED.—The contracts 
described in this paragraph include energy 
savings performance contracts, utility service 
contracts, power purchase agreements, 
land leases, and private housing contracts 
pursuant to which any photovoltaic devices 
are 

(A) installed on property or in a facility— 
owned by the Department of Defense; 
‘‘(B) generate power consumed by the Dept 
of Defense and counted toward Federal renewable 
energy purchase requirements 

‘‘(3) CONSISTENCY WITH INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS.—
Paragraph (1) shall be applied in a 
manner consistent with the obligations of 
the United States under international agreements. 


‘‘(4) DEFINITION OF PHOTOVOLTAIC DE-
VICES.—In this subsection, the term ‘photovoltaic 
devices’ means devices that convert 
light directly into electricity. 

‘‘(5) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This subsection applies 
to photovoltaic devices procured or installed 
on or after the date that is 30 days 
after the date of the enactment of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 pursuant to contracts entered into 
after such date of enactment.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING REPEAL.—Section 846 of 
the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (10 U.S.C. 2534 
note) is repealed. 
Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. 
President, I thank the chairman for 
working with me on this amendment. I 
think he gave us a modification that is 
a good one. This amendment I offer 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8129 

with Senator SCHUMER and Senator 
SANDERS closes the Buy American 
loopholes, and applies Buy American 
requirements to solar projects that are 
funded by the Department of Defense 
to meet energy goals in this bill. If 
American taxpayer funds are used to 
improve our military bases’ energy security, 
then American solar firms 
should have the ability to compete. 

I ask unanimous consent that my full 
statement be printed in the RECORD. 

Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. 
President, solar power increases energy 
security for American military installations 
and our troops in the field. 
With solar power, our military is less 
dependent on the surrounding electricity 
grid or fuel supplies for generators. 
As a result, the Department of 
Defense is a leader on utilizing solar 
power—not for environmental reasons, 
but for energy security reasons. 

However, if we are going to use taxpayer 
funds to support military solar 
power—which also qualifies for federal 
solar tax incentives—we must provide 
a level playing field for U.S. solar manufacturers 
in the contracting process. 
Last year’s Defense Authorization bill 
took an important step, by clarifying 
that DOD’s Buy American Act requirements 
apply to solar. 

Previously, when solar was installed 
on DOD property, Buy American would 
not apply because DOD purchases the 
power, not the panels. DOD uses that 
arrangement for two reasons—first, it 
spreads the cost out through long term 
power purchase agreements instead of 
up-front costs; second, it allows the 
project to use tax credits DOD cannot 
use. 

While last year’s bill attempted to fix 
this situation, it left two loopholes. 
First, the Buy American requirements 
from last year’s bill are limited ‘‘to the 
extent that such contracts result in 
ownership of [solar] devices by DOD.’’ 
The nature of power purchase agreements 
means that often this requirement 
is not fulfilled, thus allowing Chinese 
solar makers to undercut bids for 
DOD funded solar projects. 

Second, last year’s provision also 
only applied when ‘‘reserved for the exclusive 
use’’ of DOD for the ‘‘full economic 
life’’ of the device. Solar power 
projects may sometimes sell back to 
the grid, and DOD may use them for 20 
years, when they are warranted for 25. 
The combined effect of these loopholes 
is that Buy American does not currently 
apply to DOD-funded solar. 

The amendment I am offering with 
Senator SCHUMER and SANDERS closes 
these loopholes and applies Buy American 
requirements to solar projects 
that are funded by DOD to meet the energy 
goals in this bill. 

If American taxpayer funds are used 
to improve our military bases’ energy 
security, American solar firms should 
have an ability to compete. We know 
that other nations like China are 
spending vast resources to become 
leaders in the solar power market. 
They do not play by our trade rules, 

and they are taking advantage of our 
taxpayer funds. 

Think about it this way: China does 
not spend its tax dollars on U.S. solar 
panels at Chinese military bases. Why 
should Congress provide market access 
that is not extended to U.S. manufacturers? 


This amendment halts that practice, 
while maintaining all existing provisions 
of the Buy American Act: Nations 
who are in the WTO are not discriminated 
against—‘‘Buy American’’ 
does not bar nations that allow reciprocal 
access to U.S. firms to their government 
procurement. Existing exemptions 
such as availability and cost still 
apply, so we do not expect this to harm 
DOD’s procurement in any way. 

Our amendment is supported by a 
strong coalition of U.S. solar manufacturers 
and U.S. workers. 

I thank Senator SCHUMER and his 
staff for working with us, along with 
Chairman LEVIN and his staff, and I 
urge the Senate’s support. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. I thank 
Senator MCCAIN, I thank Senator 
LEVIN, and I appreciate their help on 
this amendment. 

FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES OF U.S. PARENT 
COMPANIES ACTIVE IN IRAN 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, I 
wish to engage in a colloquy with my 
friend, the distinguished chairman of 
the Senate Banking Committee, regarding 
U.S. companies that continue 
to do business with Iran. I know the 
chairman shares my concern about 
Iran’s continued violations of international 
norms. As the International 
Atomic Energy Agency’s recent report 
starkly highlights, Iran continues to 
work to build a nuclear weapon despite 
the current sanctions in place. While 
we have made great strides in strengthening 
sanctions on Iran, more work 
clearly needs to be done to place pressure 
on Iran to change its behavior. 
For the past 7 years, I have been working 
to close a loophole in current law 
that allows foreign subsidiaries of U.S. 
companies to continue doing business 
with Iran without facing the same penalties 
that would be placed on the parent 
company. I have now filed an 
amendment to the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 
currently under consideration to try 
and close this loophole once again. Although 
I am not going to call for a vote 
on this amendment at this time, it is 
time we work to close this loophole 
once and for all. 

Mr. JOHNSON. I thank Senator LAUTENBERG 
for his longstanding leadership 
on this issue. It is timely for him 
to raise it again now in the wake of the 
IAEA’s recent report on Iran’s illicit 
nuclear activities and in the midst of 
our efforts in the Banking Committee 
to ratchet up the pressure on Iran’s 
leaders through additional sanctions. 
As President Obama noted last week 
when he imposed a new round of sanctions 
using the tools Congress gave 

him, Iran’s government has persistently 
refused to abide by its international 
obligations, and it is time to 
turn up the heat in an effort to persuade 
its leaders to come clean on their 
nuclear program. While U.S. sanctions 
enacted last year, multilateral sanctions, 
and other efforts have slowed 
Iran’s nuclear program and damaged 
its key revenue-generating energy sector, 
it remains my urgent priority to 
strengthen sanctions further to ensure 
that Iran effectively has no choice but 
to change its current path. That is why 
we are acting to sanction Iran’s Central 
Bank today as well. On the issue 
you have raised, I think it is long past 
time for U.S. subsidiaries to withdraw 
from doing business in Iran. That is already 
happening due to U.S. and other 
international pressure on the business 
and financial sectors. Firms realize the 
huge risks this activity poses, 
reputationally and otherwise, to their 
companies. I note that it is already a 
violation for American subsidiaries to 
engage in sanctionable activity in 
Iran’s energy sector and certain other 
activities under U.S. sanctions laws. It 
is also a violation of U.S. trade law for 
a U.S. firm to do business of any kind 
in Iran via a subsidiary. What that 
means is that if a U.S. parent is acting 
through its subsidiary, directing its activity, 
that violates U.S. law. The balance 
that has been struck so far is that 
we have directed our law, including our 
trade embargo, to U.S. companies and 
what U.S. companies do. Foreign subsidiaries 
are not, by definition, U.S. 
persons. But I agree with you that we 
can and should do more to stop the foreign 
subsidiaries of American companies 
from doing business with Iran, and 
I intend to address this problem in our 
upcoming legislation to expand Iran 
sanctions. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. My amendment 
would have applied the same penalties 
that can be imposed on U.S. companies 
that violate the U.S. trade ban with 
Iran to foreign subsidiaries of U.S. 
companies. Does the chairman agree 
that this loophole remains an issue 
that must be addressed? 

Mr. JOHNSON. I agree that we must 
address the problem of foreign subsidiaries 
of U.S. companies doing business 
in Iran not being penalized for it under 

U.S. law. I know that, as in the past, 
there will be opposition from some in 
the business community, and elsewhere 
including European and other foreign 
governments who have long objected to 
the extraterritorial application of U.S. 
laws to reach companies organized 
under their jurisdiction. They will 
argue that the activities of U.S. subsidiaries 
are not legally U.S. persons, 
but are rather foreign persons organized 
under other countries’ laws, and 
so should not be reached by U.S. law. 
But I am committed to working with 
my friend and with my committee 
members to address this issue. 
Mr. LAUTENBERG. I thank the 
chairman. As we know, Iran funds 
Hamas, Hezbollah, and other terrorist 


(Rectangle comment January 5, 2012 Congressional Record
2/1/2013 12:34:31 AM
On page S8130, December 1, 2011, the Record reads: There was also, discussion of abuses at Abu Ghraib, which diminished America's standing and outraged the American public, and there was discussion about how there were a few isolated incidents at Abu Ghraib . . . detainees in U.S. custody was far more systematic and widespread than we thought . . . their missions. And that is where the Army Field Manual comes in. Since 2009, the interagency High Value Detainee Interrogation Group has briefed the Select Committee on Intelligence numerous times. The group has repeatedly assured the Committee that they have all the authority they need to effectively gain actionable intelligence. As a consummate consumer of the intelligence products they produce, I agree.
The online Record has been corrected to read: There was also, discussion of abuses at Abu Ghraib, which diminished America's standing and outraged the American public . . . detainees in U.S. custody went beyond a few isolated incidents at Abu Ghraib . . . their missions. And that is where the September, 2006 Army Field Manual comes in . . .. Interrogation Group has assured the Senate Intelligence Committee that it has all the authority it needs to effectively gain actionable intelligence.)
(Text Box comment CORRECTION)
S8130 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

organizations. We should not allow 
American-controlled companies to provide 
cash to Iran so that they can convert 
these funds into bullets and bombs 
to be used against us and our allies. It 
is inexcusable for American companies 
to engage in any business practice that 
provides revenues to terrorists, and we 
have to stop it. I look forward to working 
with Chairman JOHNSON to close 
this loophole. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I 
rise to respond to a colloquy yesterday 
that occurred between Senators 
AYOTTE, LIEBERMAN, and GRAHAM regarding 
amendment No. 1068 offered by 
Senator AYOTTE to the Defense authorization 
bill. 

Senator AYOTTE’s amendment would 
eliminate measures that provide our 
interrogators with the guidance and 
clarity they need to effectively solicit 
actionable intelligence while upholding 
American values. In doing so, the 
amendment would override the better 
judgment of our military and intelligence 
professionals in a manner that 
will harm, not improve, our short- and 
long-term security. 

Yesterday, Senator LIEBERMAN said 
on the Senate floor that he wants prisoners 
taken captive by the United 
States to be ‘‘terrified about what is 
going to happen to them while in 
American custody.’’ He also said he 
wants ‘‘the terror they inflict on others 
to be felt by them.’’ I believe that such 
statements are antithetical to fundamental 
American values. I firmly believe 
that America will not and cannot 
lower itself to the level of terrorists. 
To do so would be to abandon our most 
cherished principles and what our 
country stands for. 

There was also discussion of abuses 
at Abu Ghraib, which diminished 
America’s standing and outraged the 
American public. 

As chairman of the Select Committee 
on Intelligence, I can say that we are 
nearing the completion a comprehensive 
review of the CIA’s former interrogation 
and detention program, and I 
can assure the Senate and the Nation 
that coercive and abusive treatment of 
detainees in U.S. custody went beyond 
a few isolated incidents at Abu Ghraib. 

Moreover, the abuse stemmed not 
from the isolated acts of a few bad apples 
but from fact that the line was 
blurred between what is permissible 
and impermissible conduct, putting 

U.S. personnel in an untenable position 
with their superiors and the law. 
That is why Congress and the executive 
branch subsequently acted to provide 
our intelligence and military professionals 
with the clarity and guidance 
they need to effectively carry out 
their missions. And that is where the 
September, 2006 Army Field Manual 
comes in. 

However, Senator AYOTTE’s amendment 
would require the executive 
branch to adopt a classified interrogation 
annex to the Army Field Manual, 

a concept that even the Bush administration 
rejected outright in 2006. 

Senator AYOTTE argued that the 
United States needs secret and undisclosed 
interrogation measures to successfully 
interrogate terrorists and 
gain actionable intelligence. However, 
our intelligence, military, and law enforcement 
professionals, who actually 
interrogate terrorists as part of their 
jobs, universally disagree. They believe 
that with the Army Field Manual as it 
currently is written, they have the 
tools needed to obtain actionable intelligence 
from U.S. detainees. 

Further, in 2009, after an extensive 
review, the intelligence community 
unanimously asserted that it had all 
the guidance and tools it needed to 
conduct effective interrogations. The 
Special Task Force on Interrogations— 
which included representatives from 
the CIA, Defense Department, the Office 
of the Director of Intelligence, and 
others—concluded that ‘‘no additional 
or different guidance was necessary.’’ 

Since 2009, the interagency High 
Value Detainee Interrogation Group 
Interrogation Group has assured the 
Senate Intelligence Committee that it 
has all the authority it needs to effectively 
gain actionable intelligence. 

Unfortunately, amendment No. 1068 
would overrule the judgments of these 
professionals—who have served under 
both the Bush and Obama administrations—
and impede their important 
work. 

If our intelligence community is telling 
us that the current guidelines and 
interrogation techniques are effective, 
why would we add secret interrogation 
methods? 

Senator AYOTTE’s amendment would 
muddy the waters on what is and isn’t 
permissible in interrogating U.S. detainees. 
Her amendment would overturn 
not only the Executive order on 
lawful interrogations but also roll back 
the McCain amendment passed in 
2005—which the Senate approved in a 
90-to-9 vote—by allowing some interrogators, 
including some military interrogators, 
to evade established interrogation 
protocols. 

In creating unnecessary exceptions 
to existing interrogation guidance, 
Senator AYOTTE’s amendment would 
deprive our military and intelligence 
professionals of the clarity they deserve 
and threaten to reopen the door 
to secret techniques and other abuses 
of U.S. detainees. 

While Senator AYOTTE has insisted 
that her amendment would continue to 
prohibit cruelty, the colloquy on the 
floor suggests otherwise. When Senator 
GRAHAM asked her if the amendment 
was needed to bring back enhanced interrogation 
techniques—techniques we 
now know included induced hypothermia, 
slapping, sleep deprivation, 
and forced stressed positions she responded 
in the affirmative. 

We cannot have it both ways. Either 
we make clear to the world that the 

United States will honor our values 
and treat prisoners humanely or we let 
the world believe that we have secret 
interrogation methods to terrorize and 
torture our prisoners. 

The Ayotte proposal also ignores the 
dangerous practical implications for 
our intelligence and military partners 
overseas. 

The colloquy between the Senators 
yesterday suggests they believe the 
United States will have some advantage 
by having a secret list of interrogation 
techniques and that this will 
have no negative implications, aside 
from giving interrogators more options. 


Last year, GEN David Petraeus said 
it best when he unequivocally asserted 
that we should not return to so-called 
‘‘enhanced’’ techniques because they 
‘‘undermine your cause’’ and ‘‘bite you 
in the backside in the long run.’’ 

Current U.S. law and policy makes 
clear that America is committed to 
fundamental humane treatment standards. 
By overturning the status quo, 
the Ayotte amendment would create 
dangerous pockets of uncertainty to 
the detriment of our international 
standing, our intelligence collectors, 
and our national security. 

Should this amendment ever come to 
the floor of the Senate, I urge my fellow 
Senators to oppose it. 

Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, I rise to 
express my deep concerns with the payroll 
tax alternative that our colleagues 
have proposed. Their alternative would 
be paid for by extending the current 
pay freeze for Federal employees 
through 2015 and requiring each agency 
to cut its workforce by 10 percent. 

I strongly oppose putting the entire 
cost on the backs of two million middle 
class Federal employees, who already 
have contributed to deficit reduction 
through a 2-year pay freeze. These men 
and women are working harder than 
ever with tighter budgets and, in many 
agencies, continued staffing shortages. 
If adopted, these provisions would hamper 
investments in national defense, 
homeland security, veterans’ services, 
food safety inspection, and other critical 
areas for a short-sighted approach 
that does little to address our current 
fiscal challenges and does nothing to 
create jobs. In the end, these policies 
would cost the government more, by 
harming the Federal Government’s 
ability to recruit and retain highly-
skilled workers and increasing our reliance 
on high-cost contractors. 

Arbitrary caps on Federal employees 
often lead to waste, fraud, and abuse as 
contracting expands without investment 
in oversight. Already, over the 
past decade, Federal contracts have 
nearly doubled in size, but the acquisition 
workforce charged with overseeing 
our Federal contracts has remained 
constant. We should not be adding to 
this trend, but working to reverse it. 

While I agree it is important that all 
Americans share the sacrifice in these 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8131 

challenging economic times, I believe 
Federal workers have already done so. 
The 2-year Federal pay freeze enacted 
as part of the Budget Control Act of 
2011 will save approximately $60 billion 
over the next 10 years. It is important 
to remember that a pay freeze affects 
employees much longer than just the 
years it is in place; future salaries will 
build from a lower base throughout employees’ 
careers. The pay freeze will 
also reduce future retirement benefits, 
because they are calculated using the 
high three years’ of earnings. 

Nearly two thirds of our 2 million 
Federal employees are employed by the 
Departments of Defense, Veterans Affairs, 
or Homeland Security—and according 
to the Office of Personnel Management, 
4 out of 5 jobs filled since 
President Obama took office have been 
to these same agencies. These employees 
do critical work to keep our Nation 
safe and care for our veterans. 

Approximately 85 percent of Federal 
employees work outside of the Washington, 
DC area, and they are our 
neighbors and constituents in each of 
our States. Like the rest of our constituents, 
they are struggling with the 
deepest recession since the Great Depression. 
Although fortunate to have 
more job security than most workers, 
many have unemployed spouses and 
adult children, their home values and 
retirement savings have fallen dramatically, 
and like everyone else they 
face high health care, college, and 
other costs. Contrary to what you 
might hear from our colleagues, Federal 
employees are not overpaid. Those 
guarding our airports and borders, and 
working at our naval shipyards, may 
start at less than $30,000 per year. 
Many make less than what they could 
in the private sector, but they work for 
the American people because they love 
their country and they are committed 
to service. Further cuts to Federal pay 
and benefits will not only hurt these 
individual families, but will hinder the 
larger economic recovery. 

At a time when close to half our Federal 
workforce will soon be eligible to 
retire, I worry that extending the pay 
freeze could further harm our ability to 
recruit the best and brightest to government 
service. As chairman of the 
Federal workforce subcommittee, I 
have been working with my colleagues 
to adopt policies to ensure that the 
Federal Government is viewed as the 
employer of choice in this country. 
Guaranteeing fair and competitive pay 
for its civilian workforce should be 
part of our commitment to the American 
people that the Federal Government 
has the right people, with the 
right skills to run their government in 
an effective and efficient manner. 

Our Federal civil service is made up 
of hard working, talented people who 
have dedicated their lives to serving 
this country. These honorable men and 
women provide many essential services 
to the American people, including 
keeping our Nation safe, caring for our 
wounded warriors, ensuring our food 

and drugs are safe, and responding to 
natural disasters. America’s public 
servants deserve our gratitude and respect. 
I thank them for their dedication, 
and I urge my colleagues to support 
them by opposing these efforts to 
freeze Federal pay and hiring. 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, earlier 
this week, the Senate adopted an 
amendment to the bill we now consider 
that would, among other things, give 
the Chief of the National Guard Bureau 
a seat on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. I 
was a strong supporter of this amendment, 
as I was its two legislative predecessors, 
the Guardians of Freedom Act 
and the National Guard Empowerment 
and State-National Defense Integration 
Act. 

Since then, I have actively lobbied 
my colleagues to support the measures, 
and I am glad that this week, so many 
of them came together to support it. 
With more than 70 cosponsors from 
across the political spectrum and ultimately, 
the unanimous consent of this 
body, the deep bipartisan support 
shown for the National Guard this 
week is not only indicative of the immense 
respect the brave citizen soldiers 
of this Nation have earned, but of 
the extraordinary potential they have 
for enhancing our national security. 

A National Guard in one form or another 
has served our Nation bravely 
and honorably for 375 years. Their 
courage is no less respected, their families 
no less concerned for their well-
being. They have done extraordinary 
work these last 10 years in in Operation 
Enduring Freedom, Operation 
Iraqi Freedom, and in Operation New 
Dawn. But that is not what this 
amendment was about. This amendment 
was not about rewarding what 
has been done in the past. 

Rather, it was about recognizing 
what we need to do for our future in 
order to keep our country safe. That is 
the key here: bringing to bear every resource 
we have for the defense of this 
Nation. 

The Joint Chiefs of Staff are the top 
military advisers to the President and 
to the Secretary of Defense. They are 
responsible for making sure our military 
is prepared for every threat to our 
national security, but as those threats 
tilt toward the asymmetric, so must 
our military planning. 

The wars in Afghanistan and Iraq 
have begun a fundamental transformation 
of our military, shifting 
away from a posture designed to 
counter Soviet aggression in Europe 
toward a posture that confronts asymmetric 
threats to American lives and 
interests. 

Writing in a report for the Center for 
New American Security last year, retired 
General Gordon Sullivan described 
the National Guard as at a 
crossroads: ‘‘Down one path lies continued 
transformation into a 21st-century 
operational force and progress on 
the planning, budgetary and management 
reforms still required to make 
that aspiration a reality. Down the 

other path lies regression to a Cold 
War-style strategic force meant only to 
be used as a last resort in the event of 
major war.’’ 

There was a clear choice, and this 
week the Senate made it, taking what 
I believe is a significant step toward 
strengthening our national security. 

When national defense solely meant 
fighting our enemies abroad, the current 
organizational strategy made 
sense. But now that we are more likely 
to have to defend against threats to 
America’s national security here on 
American shores at the same time, we 
need the National Guard to have a seat 
at the table. We need the National 
Guard’s resources and capabilities to 
be a first-line consideration that 
matches their first-line mandate. 

In my home State of Delaware, the 
31st Civil Support Team is the tip of 
the spear of the military response to a 
chemical, biological, radiological, or 
nuclear attack by terrorists. Following 
closely behind police, fire, and EMS 
services, our CST would diagnose the 
threat, inform and update the chain of 
command, and prepare the affected 
area to receive a response by larger 
units, coordinating as far up the chain 
as U.S. Northern Command. 

When the Joint Chiefs sit down to 
plan for a biological attack on this 
country, they need someone at the 
table who fully understands the mission 
of units like the 31st Civil Support 
Team, whose members are full-time 
Guard, but not Active Duty military. 

One area that needs more thought by 
the Joint Chiefs, and that I hope General 
McKinley and his successors will 
help them focus on, is the important 
role the Guard can play in cyber security, 
an area where most threats are 
decidedly asymmetric. 

The Delaware Air National Guard’s 
166th Network Warfare Squadron is already 
playing a key role in our nation’s 
defensive and offensive cyber capability 
working with U.S. Cyber Command, 
but its potential as a bridge between 
the Departments of Defense and 
Homeland Security, between Federal 
and State governments, and between 
the public and private sectors has barely 
been considered outside of a few circles. 
Determining what unique role the 
Guard can play in cyber security to 
create a more robust, more flexible defense-
in-depth is just one of the new 
ideas I believe the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau can bring to the 
planning process. 

The men and women of the National 
Guard bring extraordinary capabilities 
to our Armed Forces, and because of 
the action we have taken here this 
week, I know that our military will be 
better prepared for new and emerging 
threats to our Nation. 

Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I rise 
today to reiterate my support for section 
526 of the Energy Independence 
and Security Act of 2007. Section 526 
prohibits Federal agencies including 
the Department of Defense—from contracting 
for fuels that have higher 


S8132 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

emissions than conventional petroleum. 


This is not only an issue of clean energy 
and a better environment but, 
more importantly, our Nation’s security 
and ability to fight. The Department 
of Defense is the world’s biggest 
energy consumer, using 300,000 barrels 
of oil every day. Given our reliance on 
foreign sources of oil, this is a formidable 
security challenge for our country. 


The efforts underway at the Department 
to increase efficiency and expand 
the use of renewable energy and alternative 
fuel sources are critical to both 
the bottom line of Pentagon and to increase 
the safety of our warfighters. As 
you know, a record number of casualties 
in Iraq and Afghanistan have occurred 
while units transport fuel and 
supplies in military convoys. Increasing 
our energy and fuel efficiency not 
only reduces the overhead costs of the 
military, but it will also decrease the 
need to move as much fuel and supplies, 
lessening the risks posed by these 
convoys to our troops. 

This is an important and timely issue 
because while the National Defense Authorization 
Act we are considering on 
the Senate floor does nothing to affect 
section 526, the House version of NDAA 
repeals this important law. 

The Department of Defense supports 
this existing law and has said that it 
does not prevent them from purchasing 
the fuel it needs to meet its current 
mission needs. Hundreds of veterans 
who served in the Armed Forces from 
World War II through the Iraq and Afghanistan 
wars have asked the Senate 
to oppose repeal of section 526. 

I urge my colleagues to join with the 
Department and our veterans to support 
this law. 

I also applaud the work the DOD has 
done to date to move toward homegrown, 
renewable fuel sources, including 
the Navy’s commitment to reduce 
petroleum use in its fleet by 50 percent 
through programs such as the Green 
Fleet. 

To help the DOD realize its goals and 
to increase the security of our troops, 
we must dramatically scale up advanced 
biofuels production in the 
United States. Companies here in the 
United States have already developed 
technologies to produce ‘‘drop-in’’ 
ready fuels, so no new infrastructure or 
engine modifications are needed. These 
fuels are based on plants like camelina, 
jatropha, and algae—plants that can be 
grown all over the country in a variety 
of climates. 

I believe section 526 has laid the 
foundation for this needed scale up of 
advanced biofuels, and it is time to 
take the next step toward ensuring 
that the DOD has access to a greater 
range of energy options than foreign 
sources of fossil fuels. That is why I 
have been working with my colleagues, 
Senator CANTWELL, Congressman INSLEE, 
and others, to put in place 
multiyear contracting authority for 
the purchase of biofuels. 

We have introduced legislation in 
both the Senate and the House to do 
just that, and while that legislation in 
not included in this bill, I am pleased 
that we were able to include language 
that will require the Department to 
clarify its existing authorities for 
multiyear contracts for the purchase of 
advance biofuels and what additional 
authorities are needed for the Department 
to enter into such contracts 
going forward. 

Mr. President, I look forward to 
working with my colleagues to ensure 
the final NDAA bill keeps the Department 
moving forward on securing and 
supporting renewable energy and fuel 
alternatives. 

Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I rise in 
support of Senator MERKLEY’S calling 
for the withdrawal of American troops 
from Afghanistan. I support bringing 
our troops home for two reasons: First, 
we can’t afford what we are spending 
today in Afghanistan. Second, we need 
to focus on nation building here at 
home. 

We are spending $10 billion per month 
in Afghanistan. Every dime of it is deficit 
spending. We should listen to the 
former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, Admiral Mullen. He said our debt 
is the top security threat facing the 
United States. We can’t continue down 
this path. 

Our troops continue to serve heroically 
on some of the toughest missions 
imaginable. They have done everything 
we have asked of them—and we have 
asked a lot through weekends and holidays, 
over frigid mountains and hot 
deserts. The service of the men and 
women of the military has been nothing 
short of remarkable. 

It is now time to hand over the responsibility 
of this war to the Afghans. 
Afghan President Hamid Karzai recently 
held a Loya Jirga, or grand assembly, 
among leaders and elders from 
across Afghanistan. 

The assembly approved a resolution 
calling for the Afghans to take the lead 
role of the war effort. Let’s take them 
up on their offer. Let’s not have American 
men and women doing the work 
that Afghans want to do for themselves. 


For years we have been putting war 
spending on our national credit card. 
In 2003, I joined Senators BIDEN and 
CONRAD in offering an amendment to 
the Iraq supplemental appropriations 
bill that would have offset the war 
spending. 

Instead of adopting the amendment, 
Congress elected to pay for the war 
with deficit spending. Over the past 
decade, we have grown our debt by $1.3 
trillion due to war spending alone. The 
President’s budget projects $500 billion 
dollars in war spending in the coming 
decade. This spending is in addition to 
the trillions we will spend on the defense 
base budget. This endless deficit 
spending is simply not sustainable. 

During our work on the Joint Select 
Committee on Deficit Reduction, every 
member of the panel came to a better 

appreciation of the difficult financial 
decisions we face as a nation. There is 
no choice: we have to balance our 
books. 

But how we balance our books will 
reflect who we are as a nation, what 
our values are, what our goals are. 
Most important, these choices will determine 
whether the 21st century will 
be the American century or whether we 
will cede our leadership to countries 
such as China. 

In the year ahead, Congress will 
make a number of hard choices, and we 
must be strategic about these choices. 
We will choose among essential investments 
in education, infrastructure, 
health care for our veterans and seniors, 
and maintaining the best military 
in the world. 

And every month we spend $10 billion 
dollars in Afghanistan will limit what 
we can do at home. Every dollar we 
send to Afghanistan is one less dollar 
we have for health care for our seniors 
or education benefits for our veterans. 

The tough choices must be made at a 
time when the world is changing rapidly. 
During his final press conference 
as the U.S. Ambassador to Japan on 
November 14, 1988, Mike Mansfield said: 

[Japan and the United States] will work 
together in the next century which will be 
the Century of the Pacific. 

Our two nations working together will be 
able to compliment and guide the rest of the 
world as it moves into this area, into the 
[Pacific] basin, because we both realize that 
it is in that Basin where it all is, where it is 
all about, and where our joint future lies. 

Looking back 23 years later, his remarks 
seem prescient. According to 
the World Bank, China’s average annual 
GDP growth rate since 2001 has 
been 10.4 percent. Asian developing nations 
collectively had an average 
growth rate of 9.1 percent. The United 
States has seen an average growth of 
just 1.7 percent. 

The 21st century will not be the 
American century if we don’t change 
course. During the first decade of this 
century, we spent $5.9 trillion dollars 
on defense spending, much of it in Iraq 
and Afghanistan. During that same 
decade, China spent $1.1 trillion. Now, 
which nation’s power increased more 
during that period? 

China is flexing muscles abroad not 
with shiny new weapon systems but 
with their growing financial power. 
China is now the second-largest economy 
in the world, and it continues to 
grow. 

We are seeing our influence wane 
around the world not because we are 
short an aircraft carrier but because 
some have begun to question American 
resolve, the ability of American political 
process to solve basic problems 
and to govern. 

Meanwhile, millions of Americans 
are out of work and struggling to make 
ends meet. Last year, I asked the Congressional 
Budget Office to prepare a 
report on income inequality in this 
country. The statistics are sobering. 
The top 1 percent of earners in the 
United States more than doubled their 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8133 

share of income in the past 30 years. 
The wealthiest fifth of the country 
earned more than the other four-fifths 
combined. 

These are only but a few of the great 
challenges we face at home, and to 
overcome these challenges we have to 
work together. To compete and win in 
today’s world, we need to balance our 
budget, grow our economy, and invest 
in education and infrastructure. We 
can’t afford another year of spending 
tens of billions of dollars on nation 
building overseas. 

For the 21st century to be the American 
century, we are going to have to 
make some changes. We need to bring 
our troops home from Afghanistan and 
focus on nation building here at home. 
I urge my colleagues to support Senator 
MERKLEY’s amendment. 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, another 
amendment that I filed to S. 1867, the 
Senate’s Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense 
Authorization bill, would have 
advanced new clean energy opportunities 
and enjoyed bipartisan support. 
The amendment’s cosponsors included 
Senators SHAHEEN, PORTMAN, GILLIBRAND, 
MERKLEY, and KERRY. Unfortunately, 
we were not able to offer it this 
week because of a disagreement over 
scoring. It was an important opportunity 
missed so I wanted to take a 
moment to note what this amendment 
entailed. 

Amendment No. 1265 would have confronted 
a critical long-term challenge 
facing our Nation’s military: the spiraling 
cost of its reliance on petroleum. 
As we look for ways to save taxpayer 
dollars and reduce our Nation’s 
dependence on foreign oil, utilizing 
more electric vehicles should become a 
priority for the Defense Department 
and the entire Federal Government. 

Investment in clean energy technology 
is an investment in America’s 
energy security. Liquid petroleum accounts 
for three-quarters of our Armed 
Forces’ energy consumption, and approximately 
60 percent of that comes 
from abroad. The Defense Department 
has explicitly cited the operational 
risk inherent to our dependence on foreign 
oil and has committed itself to aggressively 
reducing energy consumption. 


Senate Amendment No. 1265 would 
allow the Defense Department and 
other Federal agencies to purchase 
electric vehicles and charging infrastructure 
under Energy Savings Performance 
Contracts, ESPC. ESPCs 
themselves aren’t new: the government 
has used ESPCs for years to pay for energy 
efficiency upgrades. It has been 
enormously successful and costs the 
government nothing up front. That’s 
right, ESPCs are paid for, financed, 
performed and guaranteed by the private 
sector with the government paying 
back the private sector through 
guaranteed energy savings over time. 
Our amendment would have made electric 
vehicles and charging infrastructure 
eligible for the program. 

Energy efficiency is about more than 
turning the lights off when you leave a 

building. It is about the appliances you 
buy, the tools you use, and the vehicles 
you drive. 

The Federal Government is America’s 
largest energy consumer and 
within the government, the Defense 
Department is the biggest energy consumer. 
One out of every three vehicles 
owned by the Federal Government is 
owned by the Pentagon, which is why 
we raised this amendment this week. 

Amendment No. 1265 would have 
helped increase the share of the government-
owned fleet that is cost-efficient, 
energy-efficient electric vehicles. 
On top of that, it would not add a 
dime to the Federal deficit. By buying 
these vehicles in through ESPCs, the 
government does not put up any money 
up front. Rather, it enters an agreement 
with a private-sector contractor—
a job-creating private-sector 
contractor—where the agency pays the 
contractor over an agreed-upon period 
of time—as many as 25 years. 

What they are paying each month, 
though, is the net savings achieved by 
using the electric vehicle instead of a 
conventional vehicle. This is an unconventional, 
but creative and cost-efficient 
way to save money, reduce our 
dependence on foreign oil, and even to 
help support a growing private industry. 


This amendment would have simply 
provided the Defense Department with 
a new tool for acquiring cost-efficient 
electric vehicles, which is what they 
are asking us to do. They want to add 
electric vehicles to their fleets. The 
Defense Department has already done 
extraordinary work in leveraging energy 
efficiency to reduce its costs and 
reduce its dependence on foreign oil. 
We want to help them do more. 

This is a challenging economic time 
for our country, and our military needs 
every advantage it can get as it confronts 
dangerous threats to our national 
and energy security. By empowering 
the Pentagon to buy more of 
these energy-efficient, cost-efficient 
electric vehicles, we are saving taxpayer 
dollars and reducing our dependence 
on foreign oil. Investment in 
clean energy technology is an investment 
in America’s energy security, and 
energy security is, without a doubt, an 
increasingly important, and increasingly 
fragile, aspect of America’s national 
security. 

This is a common-sense policy that 
unfortunately cannot be considered at 
this point because of a technicality in 
how the Congressional Budget Office 
scores ESPCs. It has been going on for 
10 years and, as I understand, it has 
provided endless frustration to my colleagues 
on the Senate Energy and Natural 
Resources Committee and several 
other congressional committees, and 
this problem reaches beyond the electric 
vehicle option alone. 

A key point to make here is that 
whenever Congress tells the Federal 
Government to become more efficient 
but does not provide appropriated funding 
for the purpose, a score is triggered 

because the government might use 
ESPCs to meet the mandate. Effectively, 
Congress cannot tell the Federal 
Government to save money 
through efficiency. Further, while 
ESPCs are scored by the CBO rules, 
OMB does not score them because the 
government does not incur any costs 
through their use. This specious score 
has essentially limited our ability to 
reduce appropriated dollars and 
achieve energy efficient simultaneously 
using private sector expertise 
and funding. 

This amendment is something that is 
important to me. I am hopeful it is 
something that we will be able to pass 
down the road. In the meantime, it is 
an opportunity lost, to help our military 
prepare for the threats facing our 
nation. 

Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I rise 
today to express my disappointment 
that the Senate was not able to reach 
agreement to consider an important 
amendment on the Defense authorization 
bill that would allow women in 
the military access to the same health 
care coverage as civilian women. 

There are almost 214,000 women currently 
serving in our Armed Forces. 
Many of these brave women are risking 
their lives for our national security. 
Despite the sacrifices these women 
make to protect our freedom, they are 
not given the same rights as civilian 
women when it comes to their reproductive 
health care. 

If a service woman becomes pregnant 
as a result of rape or incest, her insurance 
will not cover an abortion if she 
decides to seek one; the law as currently 
written expressly prohibits it. 
This is unconscionable. To correct this 
injustice, I offered an amendment to 
the bill that we are currently debating 
that would allow a service woman the 
ability to receive insurance coverage 
for an abortion if her pregnancy is the 
result of rape or incest. Unfortunately, 
because there are some in this body 
who do not want this unfair law 
changed, we were not able to bring this 
amendment to the floor for a vote. 

Women currently serving in the 
armed services are victims of discrimination. 
They do not have access to the 
same critical—and legal—reproductive 
health care as the civilians they protect. 


Bans on abortion coverage exist for 
millions of women who receive their 
health care through government programs, 
but in most cases these bans 
allow for coverage of such care if the 
pregnancy is the result of rape or incest. 
Women receiving their health 
care through Medicaid, Medicare, the 
Federal Employees Health Benefits 
Program, and the Indian Health Services 
all have access to the care they 
need if the pregnancy is a result of rape 
or incest. Even women serving time in 
our Federal prisons can get abortions 
covered in the case of rape. Sadly, this 
is not the case for our Nation’s women 
in uniform. 


S8134 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

I believe that every woman should 
have the reproductive health care coverage 
she needs wherever she is and 
whenever she needs it. I do not think 
that any ban on abortion is appropriate. 
However if Federal bans do 
exist, they should at least be consistent. 


My amendment is simple. It would 
permit a service woman to have an 
abortion covered by her military 
health insurance if the pregnancy is 
the result of rape or incest. Repealing 
the current ban on such coverage will 
simply bring the Department of Defense 
in line with most other federal 
policies. 

I recently met a woman who was a 
victim of rape during her military 
service. She was stationed in Korea and 
was unable to receive the health care 
she needed and deserved. Her story was 
heartbreaking. Because of her unwanted 
pregnancy, she had to leave the 
service and return home. 

The reality is that women in the 
military, especially those posted overseas, 
have few safe or legal reproductive 
health care options when they cannot 
rely on the military. Without access 
to these services, some women will 
be forced to resort to unsafe care or 
delay the health services they need. 
Women who give their lives for our 
country deserve better. 

While the bill we are considering 
today will move forward without this 
important change, I pledge to all the 
women in our military who are victims 
of this law that I will continue my 
fight to bring the Department of Defense 
in line with other Federal agencies 
to allow coverage for critical reproductive 
health care. 

Mr. LUGAR. Mr. President, I commend 
Chairman LEVIN and Ranking 
Member MCCAIN, our distinguished 
Armed Services Committee leaders, for 
their amendment regarding the problem 
of counterfeit parts, Senate 
amendment 1092, which was agreed to, 
as modified, last Tuesday. The amendment 
establishes a prudent framework 
for countering the dangerous infiltration 
of counterfeit parts into our defense 
supply chain. I also want to commend 
Senator WHITEHOUSE for his work 
on this important issue. 

The amendment would create criminal 
penalties for those trafficking in 
counterfeit parts so as to ensure that 
our Armed Forces have the best equipment 
from trusted suppliers in order to 
carry out their critical roles and missions. 
It would also significantly 
strengthen our supply-chain management 
to detect and prevent surreptitious 
attempts to supply our Armed 
Forces with counterfeit parts and components. 


I have followed the hearings in the 
Senate Armed Services Committee regarding 
these matters. I wanted to 
take time today to raise in relation to 
the amendment a problem that I believe 
could complicate its enforcement. 
If we truly intend to grow our economy 
through exports, then we ought to pay 

attention to any risks that may stem 
from liberalizing our present export 
controls so as to ensure that our industrial 
base benefits—and not those who 
deal in counterfeit parts and components 
in other nations. 

A person who commits an offense 
under this amendment may be punished 
if that person ‘‘had knowledge 
that the good or service is falsely identified 
as meeting military standards or 
is intended for use in a military or national 
security application.’’ 

I am concerned that the amendment 
may be undermined by the export control 
initiatives of the administration. 
The administration is engaged in an effort 
to remove most, if not all, of the 
military-grade parts and components 
controlled on the U.S. Munitions List. 
Many of these will be decontrolled altogether 
for export and import purposes. 
Others will be placed under the 
Commerce Department’s Export Administration 
Regulations. Hundreds of 
thousands of military-grade parts, 
components and systems are involved. 

The reasons why this agenda presents 
significant challenges to dealing with 
counterfeit parts center on the relatively 
liberal legal and policy considerations 
that govern our commercial 
trade with China. Senators Levin and 
Whitehouse pointed to the many problems 
emanating from counterfeit Chinese 
parts in their remarks on the 
floor. As we know from the hearings 
and studies to date, Chinese suppliers 
play the major role in the unauthorized 
supply of counterfeit parts. 

We also know from the Commerce 
Department’s January 2010 report on 
counterfeit electronics, which was 
commissioned by the Navy Department, 
that the counterfeit electronics 
infiltrating the Defense Department 
supply chain and affecting weapon system 
reliability are predominantly commercial 
and industrial grade parts—so-
called commercial off-the-shelf, COTS, 
technology. 

The drawings and specifications 
needed to produce those parts can be— 
and are—freely exported to China 
under the Commerce Department’s Export 
Administration Regulations, EAR. 
There is no legal bar to exports of such 
drawings and parts to China and, in all 
but rare cases, they may be sent to 
China without an export license. The 
same holds true for the import of such 
parts into the United States after they 
are produced in China. 

In contrast, there has been a much 
lower incidence to date of counterfeit 
parts specifically designed for military 
use. Such parts are currently controlled 
on the U.S. Munitions List. 
Maintenance of the U.S. Munitions 
List is authorized by the Arms Export 
Control Act, AECA, and it is administered 
by the State Department in consultation 
with the Defense Department. 
The Foreign Relations Committee 
has unique jurisdiction over 
these matters in the Senate. 

The reasons for the lower incidence 
of counterfeit military-grade parts are 

threefold: One, it is illegal to export 
any drawings or specifications to China 
that are controlled on the U.S. Munitions 
List, due to the statutory arms 
embargo imposed on China following 
the Tiananmen Square massacre; two, 
it is illegal under the International 
Traffic in Arms Regulations, ITAR— 
the State Department’s regulations 
which contain the U.S. Munitions 
List—to import any defense article 
into the United States from China; and 
three, willful violations of the ITAR 
and the AECA are vigorously enforced 
by U.S. courts, with the majority of 
convictions resulting in prison sentences, 
while the majority of willful 
violations involving illegal exports of 
industrial or commercial products result 
in probation. The latter are currently 
enforced under the International 
Emergency Economic Powers Act because 
the Export Administration Act 
has lapsed. 

Unfortunately, all of the deterrents 
inherent in control on the U.S. Munitions 
List could go away if and when 
the administration’s export control reform 
initiatives are implemented. 

I congratulate and welcome the efforts 
of Senator LEVIN, Senator MCCAIN 
and other Senators to close down the 
infiltration of counterfeit parts into 
our defense supply chain, but I remain 
concerned that the administration’s 
agenda for export control reform will 
increase these problems in the future 
and frustrate enforcement of this 
amendment. 

In addition, it is my understanding 
that the administration not only plans 
to remove nearly all the military-grade 
parts and components from the U.S. 
Munitions List, but also to redefine 
those few categories of high-end parts 
and components remaining on the Munitions 
List in a way that would seriously 
complicate enforcement of the 
amendment. 

We will continue to consult with the 
administration on its reform agenda in 
the Foreign Relations Committee. 

Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I would 
like to ask for the attention of my colleagues 
on two amendments that I 
have filed to S. 1867, the National Defense 
Authorization Act of 2012. 

Each of these amendments relates to 
the Navy’s proposal to build a new nuclear 
pier facility to support East 
Coast aircraft carriers. With annual recurring 
costs, this new project would 
likely cost just shy of a billion dollars. 

At a time when our Nation is in a severe 
fiscal crisis the Navy cannot pay 
to maintain the infrastructure it currently 
owns. As Admiral Mullen has 
said, the greatest challenge to our national 
security is our mounting debt. 

Together, these amendments would 
save nearly $30 million for an unnecessary 
Navy military construction 
project at Naval Station Mayport, 
Florida. We are awaiting completion of 
an independent GAO assessment of the 
strategic risks to our carrier fleet 
which include manmade and natural 
disasters. The study would also consider 
the cost and benefits of what 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8135 

other measures we can take to mitigate 
risk. 

This is not a small project. The Navy 
estimates its homeporting plan will 
cost nearly $600 million, but those 
costs could rise to up to $1 billion over 
the next eight years. Tack on to that 
more than $25 million in annual maintenance 
costs currently estimated for 
an additional homeport and we are 
signing the taxpayer up for a big bill, 
much of which is not funded. It’s in the 
‘‘out years’’ as they say. 

The justification for a new homeport 
is the mitigation of the risk of a terrorist 
attack, accident, or natural disaster 
occurring at the nuclear handling 
facility at the existing carrier home-
port at Norfolk, VA. 

However, the current Navy plan fails 
to take into account the two additional 
East Coast carrier capabilities facilities 
at Newport News, VA, and the 
Naval Shipyard. Each of these facilities 
maintains separate nuclear handling 
sites located many miles apart. If 
there were damage to the existing 
Naval base, the Navy could simply disperse 
the carriers to other piers. That 
is a lot cheaper and more efficient than 
building a new, duplicative facility. 

Additionally, recent Navy briefings 
indicate there is a 50 percent greater 
chance of a major hurricane hitting 
Mayport than Norfolk. Why would we 
want to build a new facility at a higher 
risk location? 

The Navy has also identified unfunded 
priorities totaling $11.8 billion 
dollars. These priorities are in critical 
areas including shipbuilding, military 
construction, maintenance, and acquisition 
programs—programs which are 
critical to both our current and future 
readiness. 

We must maintain our existing infrastructure 
properly before pursuing a 
duplicative homeporting project. It is 
more fiscally responsible for the Navy 
to reduce its current unfunded requirements, 
which total tens of billions of 
dollars. 

We have had some recent developments 
that I want to highlight that 
cast more doubt on the wisdom of embarking 
on this enormous expenditure. 
Responding to a letter I wrote, along 
with other colleagues in the Virginia 
delegation, the Navy’s new CNO, Admiral 
Greenert has said that it is time to 
take a fresh look at the costs of this 
project, given the current fiscal constraints. 
Admiral Greenert wrote the 
Navy will be making a ‘‘comprehensive 
strategic review, examining every program 
element, including the funding 
required to homeport a CVN in 
Mayport.’’ I agree with Admiral 
Greenert. With the serious fiscal issues 
facing our Nation, the prudent course 
of action is to focus on taking care of 
the infrastructure we already have instead 
of buying new infrastructure 
which we do not need and cannot afford. 


Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr. 
President, I want to discuss the amendment 
to the pending Defense authoriza


tion bill negotiated between my two 
Banking Committee colleagues, Senators 
MENENDEZ and KIRK, designed to 
address the deceptive and fraudulent 
practices, sanctions evasion, facilitation 
of proliferation, and other illicit 
behavior of Iran’s Central Bank. 

Ten days ago, President Obama 
issued an Executive order designed to 
further isolate and penalize Iran for its 
refusal to live up to its international 
obligations regarding its nuclear program. 
As he noted, for years the Iranian 
Government has failed to abide by 
its obligations under the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty, violated repeated 

U.N. Security Council resolutions, and 
ignored its legal commitments to the 
International Atomic Energy Agency. 
In the face of this intransigence, the 
world has spoken with one voice—at 
the IAEA, at the U.N., and in capitals 
around the world—making it clear that 
Iranian actions are a threat to international 
peace and stability and will 
only further isolate the Iranian regime. 
The President targeted, for the first 
time, Iran’s petrochemical sector, prohibiting 
the provision of goods, services, 
and technology to this sector and 
authorizing penalties against any person 
or entity that engages in such activity. 
He also designated for sanction 
a group of individuals and entities for 
assisting Iran’s prohibited nuclear programs, 
including its enrichment and 
heavy water programs. And he escalated 
the financial and economic pressure 
by using provisions of the USA 
PATRIOT Act to identify the entire 
Iranian banking sector—including 
Iran’s Central Bank—as a threat to 
governments and financial institutions 
that do business with Iran. 

I strongly support enhanced sanctions 
on Iran, including its Central 
Bank, and have been working with my 
ranking member, Senator SHELBY, on 
another sanctions measure to expand 
and reinforce the Comprehensive Iran 
Sanctions and Accountability Act, 
CISADA, enacted last year. That legislation 
will be marked up soon in our 
committee. But as in all areas of complex 
sanctions law, it is important to 
craft these provisions with an eye to 
ensuring that they do not have negative 
unintended consequences for the 
United States and American consumers 
in terms of substantially increased oil 
and gas prices; for our allies, whose cooperation 
is crucial in further isolating 
Iran; for central banks around the 
world. We also want to avoid the result—
if this measure is not further refined 
and then implemented by the 
White House in close consultation with 
our allies—that Iran itself could benefit 
from an oil price premium we in 
the West would pay if notoriously volatile 
world oil markets respond negatively 
and if non-Iranian oil supplies 
are not sufficient to fill the gap caused 
by countries that seek their oil elsewhere 
than from Iran. 

The amendment seeks to address 
that concern by providing for a lag 
time of 6 months for oil markets to 

prepare and providing for a Presidential 
certification on oil price and 
supply availability before the petroleum 
sanctions would become effective. 
But that may not be sufficient, given 
the complexity of oil markets, which I 
am told by the Energy Department 
tend to pull such dates forward, anticipating 
oil price supply shortfalls—and 
oil price increases—and building them 
into oil traders’ assumptions well before 
sanctions actually take effect. 

I have heard a number of concerns 
about this amendment in its current 
form from senior officials at the Treasury 
Department charged with implementing 
it. First, Treasury officials 
have indicated that they have concerns 
about how this amendment could affect 
our close allies, including foreign central 
banks of those governments that 
have worked with us in recent years to 
sanction Iran and that hold large reserves 
in the United States but who 
have thus far decided they cannot, because 
of their current dependence on 
Iranian oil, completely and relatively 
quickly withdraw from purchasing its 
oil. We must avoid having these central 
banks begin to pull their reserves from 
the United States out of fear that enforcement 
of this amendment might 
limit their access to the U.S. financial 
system. That is why the signals sent by 
the Treasury Secretary and the President 
about implementing this provision 
are so important. 

The administration also has concerns 
regarding effective implementation of 
this amendment, especially its requirement 
that the President prohibit accounts 
outright instead of, as elsewhere 
in U.S. law, allowing discretion 
to impose strict conditions on accounts—
on trade finance limits, on the 
nature or size of transactions, on 
preapproval of transactions and about 
the timelines it presents, the confusing 
and seemingly conflicting interaction 
of some of its provisions, its lack of an 
exception for countries that are closely 
cooperating with the United States on 
sanctions enforcement, and others. I 
ask consent to print in the RECORD following 
my statement a copy of a letter 
from Secretary Geithner indicating his 
strong opposition to the amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, so ordered (see Exhibit 1). 

Mr. JOHNSON. We all agree that 
interactions by the international financial 
community with Iran’s financial 
system should be severely reduced, 
not least because such interactions 
pose serious risks for the international 
banking system. But we do not want to 
do it in a way that could have negative 
consequences for some of our closest 
allies or for ourselves. We want to be 
careful that we don’t end up shooting 
ourselves in the head and Iran in the 
foot. 

I know my colleagues have worked in 
the last week, including over the 
Thanksgiving holidays, to make the 
provision more effective and to provide 
for additional targeting by the President, 
building in a national security 


S8136 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

waiver, a lag period for implementation 
of the crude oil sanctions, and 
other measures. But I think the provision 
could use further refinement. That 
is why I had hoped to be able to address 
this issue through the more deliberative 
committee process. 

Even though I have concerns about 
some of the effects of this amendment 
in its current form, I will support it as 
a signal of my support for tightening 
the financial and economic noose 
around Tehran and for further isolating 
its government as a means of 
prompting it to turn aside from its current 
path and come clean on its nuclear 
program. Even so, these implementation 
issues should be addressed 
in conference prior to the legislation 
being finalized. 

Finally, I want to remind my colleagues 
that the Banking Committee is 
working expeditiously to adopt new 
comprehensive sanctions legislation 
and I hope will be ready to bring that 
legislation to the full Senate soon. It 
will complement and reinforce the 
Comprehensive Iran Sanctions and Accountability 
Act, CISADA, enacted a 
little over a year ago, and international 
diplomatic efforts led by the 
President to further isolate Iran and 
ratchet up the pressure on its leaders. 
I think all of us would agree that the 
most effective sanctions are those that 
are imposed and enforced by a coalition 
of nations, and the administration’s 
success in building and sustaining 
a coalition to do precisely that 
is to be commended. I look forward to 
working with my colleagues on that effort. 


EXHIBIT 1 

DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY, 

Washington, DC, December 1, 2011. 

Hon. CARL LEVIN 

Chairman, Committee on Armed Services, U.S. 
Senate, Washington, DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN LEVIN: I am writing to address 
amendment 1414 to S. 1867, the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012, regarding the imposition of sanctions 
on foreign financial institutions that 
conduct business with the Central Bank of 
Iran (CBI). 

The Obama Administration’s determination 
to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear 
weapons is unwavering. We are resolved to 
build and sustain as much pressure as necessary 
to bring Iran to meet its international 
obligations and address the international 
community’s grave concerns with 
its nuclear program. I know that you and 
your colleagues in the Senate share this 
commitment. 

We understand that this amendment was 
offered in this spirit. However, I am writing 
to express the Administration’s strong opposition 
to this amendment because, in its current 
form, it threatens to undermine the effective, 
carefully phased, and sustainable approach 
we have undertaken to build strong 
international pressure against Iran. In addition, 
the amendment would potentially yield 
a net economic benefit to the Iranian regime. 


We have steadily increased the pressure on 
Iran by tightening sanctions, closing loopholes, 
and encouraging other countries to do 
the same. Congress has been absolutely critical 
in providing some of the tools that we 
have used to accomplish that goal, and we 

are seeing genuine results. The collaborative 
approach the U.S. has taken with our international 
partners has led many to impose 
sanctions on Iran that were not even contemplated 
three years ago, including on 
Iran’s energy sector. 

Iran’s greatest economic resource is its oil 
exports. Sales of crude oil line the regime’s 
pockets, sustain its human rights abuses, 
and feed its nuclear ambitions like no other 
sector of the Iranian economy. We are committed 
to doing as much as possible to reduce 
Iran’s oil revenue while concurrently 
working to stabilize global oil markets. 
Today, the United States does not permit 
the import of Iranian crude. Other countries 
have already begun to reduce their consumption 
of Iranian crude and the Administration 
is working hard to discourage anyone from 
taking advantage of the responsible policies 
of these countries. Our closest allies are seriously 
considering curtailing their own crude 
purchases altogether in the near future and 
we are doing everything possible to encourage 
them to make the right decision. 

However, as currently conceived, this 
amendment threatens severe sanctions 
against any commercial bank or central 
bank if they engage in certain transactions 
with the CBI. This could negatively affect 
many of our closest allies and largest trading 
partners. Rather than motivating these 
countries to join us in increasing pressure on 
Iran, they are more likely to resent our actions 
and resist following our lead—a consequence 
that would serve the Iranians more 
than it harms them. Further, there is a substantial 
likelihood that this amendment, 
particularly if passed into law at this time 
and in its current form, could have the opposite 
effect from what is intended and increase 
the Iranian regime’s revenue, literally 
fueling their suspect nuclear ambitions. The 
Administration is prepared at your convenience 
to share the details of our analysis on 
this point, in a classified briefing. 

The Obama Administration strongly supports 
increasing the pressure on Iran significantly, 
including through properly designed 
and well-targeted sanctions against the CBI. 
The Administration has several legislative 
proposals to both enhance and expand the 
Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, 
and Divestment Act (CISADA) and 
to strike at the CBI that we would like to 
discuss with you and your colleagues. We intend 
to work with our partners to achieve 
the objectives of this amendment, but in a 
fashion that we believe will have a greater 
and more sustainable impact on Iran. We ask 
that you continue to work with us on ways 
to improve this amendment and to consider 
other, more immediate and more effective 
steps that we can take to accomplish our 
shared goals while we work with our partners 
to bring about the effects this amendment 
is intended to achieve. 

Sincerely, 

TIMOTHY F. GEITHNER. 

Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts. Mr. 
President, I rise today to protect the 
families of our men and women in uniform. 
While these brave members of 
our community put their lives on the 
line to protect our freedoms abroad, 
courts here are using their service 
against them when making child custody 
determinations. 

Although I did not submit my 
amendment due to concern expressed 
by the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, 
it is important that the committee 
take up this issue to ensure 
that servicemembers have a uniform 
standard of protection when deter


mining the best interests of their children. 


Servicemembers risk their lives in 
support of the contingency operations 
that keep our Nation safe. The amendment 
prohibits courts from permanently 
altering custody orders during a 
parent’s deployment, and requires pre-
deployment custody to be reinstated 
unless that is not in the best interest 
of the child. 

This language of my amendment has 
enjoyed widespread support in the 
House for the past five years and was 
recently endorsed by the Department 
of Defense. Earlier this year Secretary 
Gates stated that he wanted to work 
with Congress to pursue the creation of 
a Federal uniform standard. In his letter 
of support dated February 15th, 
2011, Secretary dates stated: ‘‘I have 
been giving this matter a lot of 
thought and believe we should change 
our position to one where we are willing 
to consider whether appropriate 
legislation can be crafted that provides 
servicemembers with a federal uniform 
standard of protection.’’ 

Our men and women in uniform sacrifice 
a great deal to serve our country. 
We owe it to them to provide uniform 
legal standards regarding child custody. 
Servicemembers should never be 
in the position of having to choose between 
their country and their family. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, tonight the 
Senate will vote overwhelmingly to 
support our men and women in uniform, 
including the more than 1,100 Nevadans 
serving overseas, as they continue 
to put their lives on the line. I 
congratulate Senators LEVIN and 
MCCAIN for their stewardship of this 
bill and for working through several 
difficult issues. 

There is still work to be done in conference 
to perfect parts of this bill, including 
the provisions dealing with 
military detainees and efforts to improve 
key elements of TRICARE. 

I am pleased that today an overwhelming, 
bipartisan majority agreed 
that protecting our national security is 
more important than partisan politics. 
Today we came together to support our 
troops, and ensured that this Nation 
does everything in its power to keep 
America safe from those who would do 
us harm. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I yield back the 1 
minute of time remaining. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on the engrossment and 
third reading of the bill. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
for a third reading and was read the 
third time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There 
will now be 2 minutes of debate equally 
divided on the bill, as amended. 

The Senator from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, we are 
going to be making a unanimous consent 
request. I am not even going to 
use my 1 minute on this other than to 
say thanks to everybody who has been 
so heavily involved, which is just about 
everybody in this Senate. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8137 

I want to particularly thank Senator 
MCCAIN. His staff and my staff have 
been utterly incredible. We have had 
hundreds of amendments we had to get 
through. We have done the best we can, 
and I want to tell my friends this so we 
can prepare a path for a unanimous 
consent agreement. It is not prepared 
yet, so I cannot read it, but it is going 
to be something like this. For those 
amendments which were germane, not 
because of modification, but were germane— 


Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Will the 
Senator from Michigan yield? I don’t 
think we disposed of the Udall amendment. 


Mr. LEVIN. I believe we did. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Udall amendment was agreed to. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Reluctantly. 

Mr. LEVIN. Let me describe what 
this is about so we can be thinking 
about it before it is offered. There were 
71 amendments, approximately, which 
were cleared. We spoke about those before. 
If anyone had an objection, they 
were not cleared. So by definition there 
is no objection on the substance of 
these amendments. However, there is 
objection for other reasons, one of 
them being that if an amendment was 
modified to make it germane, there 
would be an objection on that basis. 

So what Senator MCCAIN and I are 
talking about—and we will put it in a 
unanimous consent proposal and then 
you all can decide if you want to agree 
to this—is that we would work—we 
pass a bill tonight and do all the other 
things we need to do because that has 
to be done. We have to get to conference. 


In the next couple of days Senator 
MCCAIN and I, working with the Parliamentarian, 
would go through the 71 
amendments, or whatever the number 
is. The Parliamentarian would then advise 
us as to which of those amendments 
is germane and were germane— 
and these are all cleared amendments. 
And for that group, whatever the number 
is, that we are informed by the Parliamentarian 
is germane and were germane, 
we would then put in a bill 
which would be introduced next week. 
If we can get that done, then the unanimous 
consent request would have that 
bill introduced, read a third time, and 
passed. That would be the most we 
could ask for. 

It would seem to me if we could pass 
this tonight, we could do the same 
thing with a bill—providing Senator 
MCCAIN and I agree after talking to the 
Parliamentarian—that the only 
amendments that would be in that bill 
would be amendments which were germane. 


How do we get that bill into the conference 
report? We have not figured 
that out yet, but we are working on 
that piece as well. At least we can get 
the bill passed so we can go to conference 
and show the Senate passed 
these X number of amendments. This is 
the best we could do. It is the cleanest 
we could do. The Parliamentarian did 

not like the different idea that we proposed, 
and I don’t blame him and her, 
but that is what we are going to be offering 
in a few minutes. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I have nothing more to 
add. I wish to vote. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Texas. 

Mr. CORNYN. If I may be permitted 
to thank the distinguished chairman 
for that offer. It is unclear to me how 
it will actually be executed—and all of 
this could have been avoided, from my 
perspective, if a simple unanimous consent 
request had been allowed to modify 
an amendment that I had that was 
not germane to make it germane so we 
could have a simple up-or-down vote, 
something that was in the nature of a 
technical correction, which I would 
think as a matter of custom and courtesy 
would be allowed. But apparently 
that is not the way things are operating. 


All of these convulsions are being engaged 
in simply to avoid an objection 
to a unanimous consent request to 
modify an amendment to make it germane. 
It could all be avoided and we 
could have taken care of this in 10 or 15 
minutes. I don’t understand if the distinguished 
chairman is actually making 
that unanimous consent request at 
this time or is merely explaining what 
his intentions are. I will try to work 
with him, but I am not yet sure this is 
going to work as he hopes it will. My 
objection will remain that any amendment 
that was not germane when filed 
but could be made germane by modification, 
as mine could, would not be 
permitted to be in this managers’ package 
or passed by unanimous consent. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. It sounds simplistic, 
and the hour is late and we need to 
vote, but the fact is there were 382 
amendments that were submitted. 
There were hundreds of amendments 
that were waiting, and the fact is that 
initially the Cornyn amendment was 
not agreed to, so it is a little more 
complicated than that. There were literally 
400 or 500 amendments that were 
filed, and we had to at some point cut 
off the process. For next year’s bill we 
will try to get a situation where it is 
far more inclusive and far more informative. 
When you are dealing with 
500 amendments, I know that each is 
important, but there is no way you are 
going to be able to get through the authorization 
bill with that many amendments 
that are filed, and that is just a 
fact. We are doing the best we can to 
accommodate the Senator from Texas 
and the Senator from Oklahoma and 
every other Senator who didn’t get 
their amendment voted on. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that upon passage 
of S. 1867, the Armed Services Committee 
be discharged from further consideration 
of H.R. 1540 and the Senate 
proceed to its consideration; that all 

after the enacting clause be stricken 
and the text of S. 1867, as amended, and 
passed by the Senate, be inserted in 
lieu thereof; that H.R. 1540, as amended, 
be read a third time, passed, and 
the motion to reconsider be laid upon 
the table; that the Senate insist on its 
amendment, request a conference with 
the House on the disagreeing votes of 
the two Houses; and the Chair be authorized 
to appoint conferees on the 
part of the Senate, with the Armed 
Services Committee appointed as conferees; 
that no points of order be considered 
waived by virtue of this agreement; 
and all with no intervening action 
or debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. LEVIN. I thank everybody and I 
thank the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill 
having been read the third time, the 
question is, Shall the bill, as amended, 
pass? 

Mr. MCCAIN. I ask for the yeas and 
nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk called 

the roll. 
The result was announced—yeas 93, 
nays 7, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 218 Leg.] 

YEAS—93 
Akaka Feinstein Menendez 
Alexander Franken Mikulski 
Ayotte Gillibrand Moran 
Barrasso Graham Murkowski 
Baucus Grassley Murray 
Begich Hagan Nelson (NE) 
Bennet Hatch Nelson (FL) 
Bingaman Heller Portman 
Blumenthal Hoeven Pryor 
Blunt Hutchison Reed 
Boozman Inhofe Reid 
Boxer Inouye Risch 
Brown (MA) Isakson Roberts 
Brown (OH) Johanns Rockefeller 
Burr Johnson (SD) Rubio 
Cantwell Johnson (WI) Schumer 
Cardin Kerry Sessions 
Carper Kirk Shaheen 
Casey Klobuchar Shelby 
Chambliss Kohl Snowe 
Coats Kyl Stabenow 
Cochran Landrieu Tester 
Collins Lautenberg Thune 
Conrad Leahy Toomey 
Coons Levin Udall (CO) 
Corker Lieberman Udall (NM) 
Cornyn Lugar Vitter 
Crapo Manchin Warner 
DeMint McCain Webb 
Durbin McCaskill Whitehouse 
Enzi McConnell Wicker 
NAYS—7 
Coburn Merkley Wyden 
Harkin Paul 
Lee Sanders 

The bill (S. 1867), as amended, was 
passed. 

(The text of the bill will be printed in 
a future edition of the RECORD.) 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, as a 
Senator, I have no greater responsibility 
than to work to ensure the security 
of the United States, and I believe 
the military should have all the tools 
they need to keep our Nation safe. I 


S8138 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

support the vast majority of the Defense 
authorization bill. However, because 
I believe we can protect our national 
security without infringing on 
critical constitutional values, I could 
not support this bill. The bill fails to 
clarify that under no circumstance can 
an American citizen be detained indefinitely 
without trial. And it mandates 
for the first time that suspects arrested 
in the United States will be detained 
by the military rather than domestic 
and civilian law enforcement, 
who since 9/11 have successfully convicted 
in civilian courts over 400 terrorists. 
Finally, the bill would make it 
more difficult to close the detention 
center at Guantanamo Bay, for which I 
have long fought because the detention 
facility is a stain on our honor and a 
recruiting tool for terrorists around 
the world. 

Not only do these provisions violate 
the core values upon which our freedom 
rests, but they won’t make us 
safer. The Pentagon, CIA Director 
Petraeus, Intelligence Director Clapper, 
and FBI Director Mueller all said 
these provisions will needlessly hurt, 
rather than help, our national security. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
UDALL of New Mexico). The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I will be 
very brief for obvious reasons. But this 
is a golden moment for us. The proud 
tradition of the Senate Armed Services 
Committee has been maintained every 
year since 1961 and continues with the 
Senate’s passage of the 50th consecutive 
national defense authorization 
bill. It always takes a huge amount of 
work to get a bill of this magnitude 
done. It could not happen without the 
support of all the Senators on the committee. 
I will not thank each and every 
one—the subcommittee chairs, the 
ranking members, our staff, the floor 
staff here, who do extraordinary work. 
But the bipartisanship of this committee 
dominates again, and we hope 
that flavor will continue to dominate 
forever in the committee and hope it 
will permeate this Senate. 

We always have to work long and 
hard to pass this bill and no two of 
these bills are alike. But it’s worth 
every bit of effort we put into it because 
it is for our security, for our 
troops, and for their families. I thank 
all Senators for their roles in keeping 
our tradition going. 

Our committee’s bipartisanship also 
makes this moment possible. I am 
proud to serve with Senator MCCAIN 
and grateful for his partnership and 
friendship. I also want to thank our 
very dedicated and capable Senate 
floor staff on both sides of the aisle— 
Gary Myrick, Trish Engle, Tim Mitchell, 
and Meredith Mellody on the 
Democratic side and David Schiappa, 
Laura Dove, Ashley Messick, and Patrick 
Kilcur on the Republican side. 
They have all helped us get this bill 
across the finish line and we are very 
grateful to them and all others here on 
the floor and in both cloakrooms. 

Finally, I thank all our committee 
staff members for their extraordinary 
drive and many personal sacrifices to 
get this bill done. Led by Rick 
DeBobes, our committee’s staff director; 
Peter Levine, our general counsel; 
and Dave Morriss, our minority staff 
director, our staff really has given 
their all to get this bill passed. So to 
all of you and to all your families, 
thank you for your hard work. Take a 
few minutes to celebrate this moment 
and then put all your talents to work 
in conference with the House so we can 
bring a conference report back to the 
Senate before the holidays. 

Mr. President, they all deserve recognition 
and, as a tribute to their professionalism 
and as a further expression 
of our gratitude, I ask unanimous 
consent that all staff members’ names 
be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the list was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

Richard D. DeBobes, Staff Director; David 

M. Morriss, Minority Staff Director; Adam J. 
Barker, Professional Staff Member; June M. 
Borawski, Printing and Documents Clerk; 
Leah C. Brewer, Nominations and Hearings 
Clerk; Christian D. Brose, Professional Staff 
Member; Joseph M. Bryan, Professional Staff 
Member; Pablo E. Carrillo, Minority Investigative 
Counsel; Jonathan D. Clark, Counsel; 
Ilona R. Cohen, Counsel; Christine E. 
Cowart, Chief Clerk; Jonathan S. Epstein, 
Counsel; Gabriella E. Fahrer, Counsel; Richard 
W. Fieldhouse, Professional Staff Member; 
Creighton Greene, Professional Staff 
Member. 
Ozge Guzelsu, Counsel; John W. Heath, Jr., 
Minority Investigative Counsel; Gary J. 
Howard, Systems Administrator; Paul C. 
Hutton IV, Professional Staff Member; Jessica 
L. Kingston, Research Assistant; Jennifer 
R. Knowles, Staff Assistant; Michael J. 
Kuiken, Professional Staff Member; Kathleen 
A. Kulenkampff, Staff Assistant; Mary 

J. Kyle, Legislative Clerk; Gerald J. Leeling, 
Counsel; Daniel A. Lerner, Professional Staff 
Member; Peter K. Levine, General Counsel; 
Gregory R. Lilly, Executive Assistant for the 
Minority; Hannah I. Lloyd, Staff Assistant; 
Mariah K. McNamara, Staff Assistant. 
Jason W. Maroney, Counsel; Thomas K. 
McConnell, Professional Staff Member; William 
G. P. Monahan, Counsel; Lucian L. Niemeyer, 
Professional Staff Member; Michael 

J. Noblet, Professional Staff Member; Bryan 
D. Parker, Minority Investigative Counsel; 
Christopher J. Paul, Professional Staff Member; 
Cindy Pearson, Assistant Chief Clerk 
and Security Manager; Roy F. Phillips, Professional 
Staff Member; John H. Quirk V, 
Professional Staff Member; Robie I. Samanta 
Roy, Professional Staff Member; Brian F. 
Sebold, Staff Assistant; Russell L. Shaffer, 
Counsel; Michael J. Sistak, Research Assistant; 
Travis E. Smith, Special Assistant; William 
K. Sutey, Professional Staff Member; 
Diana G. Tabler, Professional Staff Member; 
Mary Louise Wagner, Professional Staff 
Member; Barry C. Walker, Security Officer; 
Richard F. Walsh, Minority Counsel; Bradley 
S. Watson, Staff Assistant; Breon N. Wells, 
Staff Assistant. 
Mr. LEVIN. To end my thanks—I do 
not see Senator MCCAIN here. I think 
he had to leave for a few minutes. 

He is here. Let me personally thank 
him. I thought Senator MCCAIN had to 
leave. 

I put in some thank-yous here on behalf 
of the committee, and I just want 

to tell the Senator how tremendous it 
is to work with him and how this tradition 
of bipartisanship in our committee 
has been maintained. The Senator is a 
very major part of the reason for that 
happening, and I thank him. 

Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the chairman. 
One of the things I look back on with 
great nostalgia and appreciation is the 
relationship we have developed over 
many years. I must say that we have 
had spirited discussions from time to 
time, but they have been educational, 
enlightening, and entertaining. I thank 
the Senator for his leadership. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the next two votes be 10 minutes 
in duration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 

objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. REID. As the order that is now 
before the Senate indicates, I have the 
ability to designate who will be the 
speakers. We have 1 minute on one and 
1 minute on the other. Those 2 minutes 
will be used by the senior Senator from 
Pennsylvania, Mr. CASEY. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Armed Services 
Committee is discharged from further 
consideration of H.R. 1540 and the Senate 
will proceed to its consideration; 
all after the enacting clause is stricken 
and the text of S. 1867, as amended, is 
inserted in lieu thereof; the bill, as 
amended, is considered read a third 
time and passed, and the motion to reconsider 
is made and laid upon the 
table. 

The Senate insists on its amendment, 
and requests a conference with the 
House on the disagreeing votes of the 
two Houses, and the Chair appoints Mr. 
LEVIN, Mr. LIEBERMAN, Mr. REED, Mr. 
AKAKA, Mr. NELSON of Nebraska, Mr. 
WEBB, Mrs. MCCASKILL, Mr. UDALL of 
Colorado, Mrs. HAGAN, Mr. BEGICH, Mr. 
MANCHIN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, 
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MCCAIN, 
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. CHAMBLISS, 
Mr. WICKER, Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts, 
Mr. PORTMAN, Ms. AYOTTE, 
Ms. COLLINS, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. CORNYN, 
and Mr. VITTER conferees on the part of 
the Senate. 

f 

MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUT ACT OF 
2011—MOTION TO PROCEED 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, there is 2 minutes 
equally divided prior to a vote on the 
motion to proceed to S. 1917. 

The Senator from Pennsylvania. 

Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, this Middle 
Class Tax Cut Act is very simple. It 
does two things for employers and also 
helps employees. 

Last year, the Senate came together 
in a bipartisan bill. We passed a tax bill 
that, among other things, reduced payroll 
taxes for employees. This legislation 
expands that. Instead of just saying 
we are going to have a reduction of 
2 percent of the payroll tax, this legislation 
cuts it in half. So you are cutting 
the payroll tax in half. That is 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8139 

take-home pay, $1,500 in the pockets of 
the average working family in America. 


Secondly, it allows us to provide a 
cut as well for businesses, cutting in 
half the payroll tax for businesses. It is 
good public policy. It will create lots of 
jobs at a time when the American people 
are telling us, with one voice, they 
want us to do one thing here: create 
jobs or create the conditions for job 
creation so small businesses can hire. 
At the same time, they want us to 
come together in a bipartisan way. 

I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator’s time has expired. 

Who yields time in opposition? 

The Senator from South Dakota. 

Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, there are 
a lot of Republicans here who agree 
with one of the basic principles in the 
Democratic bill; that is, there is no 
reason why people ought to suffer even 
more than they already are from the 
President’s failure to turn this job crisis 
around. 

What the Republicans have proposed 
is an alternative to this bill that ensures 
that no one sees a tax hike this 
year. The biggest difference is that the 
Republican proposal ensures that no 
one’s taxes get raised in a down economy. 


There is simply no reason that preventing 
a tax hike in this bad economy 
needs to be paid for by raising taxes on 
the very employers whom we are 
counting on to help jolt this economy 
back to life, which is exactly what the 
Democrats have put forward. So the 
Republican proposal would ensure that 
no one sees a tax increase next year. It 
avoids the gratuitous hit on job creators, 
and, even better, our plan reduces 
the Federal deficit by more than 
$111 billion. 

This is a dramatic expansion of this 
particular provision, which we cannot 
afford when we already have a $15 trillion 
debt. There is a right way and 
wrong way to do this. This is the wrong 
way in the Democratic proposal. The 
Republican proposal is the right way. 

I urge our colleagues to vote against 
this bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The time 
has expired. 

Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts. I ask 
for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The question is on agreeing to the 
motion. Under the previous order, 60 
votes are required for adoption. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

The result was announced—yeas 51, 
nays 49, as follows: 

[Rollcall Vote No. 219 Leg.] 

YEAS—51 
Akaka Blumenthal Carper 
Baucus Boxer Casey 
Begich Brown (OH) Collins 
Bennet Cantwell Conrad 
Bingaman Cardin Coons 

Durbin Lautenberg Reed 
Feinstein Leahy Reid 
Franken Levin Rockefeller 
Gillibrand Lieberman Schumer 
Hagan McCaskill Shaheen 
Harkin Menendez Stabenow 
Inouye Merkley Udall (CO) 
Johnson (SD) Mikulski Udall (NM) 
Kerry Murray Warner 
Klobuchar Nelson (NE) Webb 
Kohl Nelson (FL) Whitehouse 
Landrieu Pryor Wyden 
NAYS—49 
Alexander Grassley Murkowski 
Ayotte Hatch Paul 
Barrasso Heller Portman 
Blunt Hoeven Risch 
Boozman Hutchison Roberts 
Brown (MA) Inhofe Rubio 
Burr 
Chambliss 
Coats 
Coburn 
Cochran 
Corker 
Cornyn 
Crapo 
DeMint 
Isakson 
Johanns 
Johnson (WI) 
Kirk 
Kyl 
Lee 
Lugar 
Manchin 
McCain 
Sanders 
Sessions 
Shelby 
Snowe 
Tester 
Thune 
Toomey 
Vitter 
Enzi McConnell Wicker 
Graham Moran 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order requiring 60 votes 
for the adoption of this motion to proceed, 
the motion is rejected. 

f 

TEMPORARY TAX HOLIDAY AND 

GOVERNMENT REDUCTION ACT— 

MOTION TO PROCEED 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, there is 2 minutes 
of debate equally divided on the motion 
to proceed to S. 1931. 

The Senator from Nevada. 

Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, the Senate 
today has an opportunity to put 
aside some of the partisan differences 
and come together and do something 
that will benefit all Americans. The 
legislation I propose is a solution, and 
I support solutions which Republicans, 
Democrats, and Independents can all 
support. 

By supporting my legislation and imposing 
tax increases on employers, 
Congress can also preserve opportunity 
for job growth in the future. Increasing 
taxes on small businesses will not help 
my State overcome the highest unemployment 
rate in the Nation. By asking 
millionaires and billionaires to pay 
higher premiums for government 
health care, my proposal asks the richest 
Americans to do more, just like my 
colleagues on the other side of the aisle 
ask that they should. 

Lastly, this proposal is the only one 
that has a chance of passing the House 
of Representatives and be signed into 
law. I urge all of my colleagues to support 
this piece of legislation and this 
effort to help Americans already struggling 
to make ends meet. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Pennsylvania. 

Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, the problem 
with this proposal—and I hope we 
are reaching the point where we are actually 
coming together in a bipartisan 
way—is that it does not help small 
business. What we should be doing is 
cutting the payroll tax in half for em


ployees and cutting it in half for employers 
so we can help small businesses. 


This bill does not do that. All it does 
is take the existing cut in the payroll 
tax and keep that in place. 

We like that part of it. We should expand 
the tax cut for workers and also 
have a separate cut in the payroll tax 
for employers, so 160 million workers 
and lots of businesses can get the benefit 
of this payroll tax cut to put 
money in people’s pockets, grow the 
economy, and move the economy forward. 
I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the motion. 

Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, I ask 
for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 

sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

Under the previous order, 60 votes are 

required to adopt the motion to pro


ceed. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 

call the roll. 

Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the 
Senator from Massachusetts (Mr. 
KERRY) is necessarily absent. 

Mr. KYL. The following Senator is 
necessarily absent: the Senator from 
Arizona (Mr. MCCAIN). 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber desiring 
to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 20, 
nays 78, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 220 Leg.] 

YEAS—20 

Ayotte Heller Portman 
Barrasso Hoeven Risch 
Brown (MA) Hutchison Rubio 
Collins Lugar Snowe 
Crapo McConnell 

Vitter 
Enzi Murkowski 

Wicker 

Grassley Paul 

NAYS—78 

Akaka Feinstein Merkley 
Alexander Franken Mikulski 
Baucus Gillibrand Moran 
Begich Graham Murray 
Bennet Hagan Nelson (NE) 
Bingaman Harkin Nelson (FL) 
Blumenthal Hatch Pryor 
Blunt Inhofe Reed 
Boozman Inouye Reid 
Boxer Isakson Roberts 
Brown (OH) Johanns Rockefeller 
Burr Johnson (SD) Sanders 
Cantwell Johnson (WI) Schumer 
Cardin Kirk Sessions 
Carper Klobuchar Shaheen 
Casey Kohl Shelby 
Chambliss Kyl Stabenow 
Coats Landrieu Tester 
Coburn Lautenberg Thune 
Cochran Leahy Toomey 
Conrad Lee Udall (CO) 
Coons Levin Udall (NM) 
Corker Lieberman Warner 
Cornyn Manchin Webb 
DeMint McCaskill Whitehouse 
Durbin Menendez Wyden 

NOT VOTING—2 

Kerry McCain 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
COONS). Under the previous order requiring 
60 votes for the adoption of this 
motion, the motion is rejected. 


S8140 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

VOTE EXPLANATION 

S Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I was 
necessarily absent for the cloture vote 
on the motion to proceed to legislation 
to provide civilian payroll tax relief, to 
reduce the Federal budget deficit, and 
for other purposes, S. 1931. If I were 
able to attend today’s session, I would 
have opposed cloture on this bill.S 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that we move to a period 
of morning business, with Senators 
allowed to speak up to 10 minutes 
each. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

EXECUTIVE SESSION 

NOMINATION OF CAITLIN JOAN 
HALLIGAN TO BE UNITED 
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR 
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
CIRCUIT 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I move to 
proceed to executive session to consider 
Calendar No. 43, and I send a cloture 
motion to the desk. In fact, it is 
at the desk. 

CLOTURE MOTION 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The cloture 
motion having been presented 
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the 
clerk to read the motion. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 
CLOTURE MOTION 
We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance 
with the provisions of rule XXII of the 
Standing Rules of the Senate, hereby move 
to bring to a close debate on the nomination 
of Caitlin Joan Halligan, of New York, to be 
United States Circuit Judge for the District 
of Columbia Circuit. 
Harry Reid, Patrick J. Leahy, Charles E. 
Schumer, Christopher A. Coons, Amy 
Klobuchar, Al Franken, Richard 
Blumenthal, Sheldon Whitehouse, 
Richard J. Durbin, Dianne Feinstein, 
Herb Kohl, Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Tom 
Udall, Ron Wyden, Robert P. Casey, 
Jr., Sherrod Brown, Jeanne Shaheen. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that on Tuesday, December 
6, 2011, at 11 a.m., the Senate 
proceed to executive session to consider 
Calendar No. 43; that there be 1 
hour for debate, equally divided in the 
usual form prior to the cloture vote; 
further, that the mandatory quorum 
under rule XXII be waived. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

LEGISLATIVE SESSION 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I now ask 
unanimous consent to resume legislative 
session. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from Kansas. 

PAYROLL TAX HOLIDAY 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, just a 
few moments ago we cast several votes 
in regard to the so-called payroll tax 
holiday. I opposed both the Republican 
amendment and the Democratic 
amendment. 

There were significant differences between 
these two versions of this legislation; 
in part, the differences at least 
included the way that the provisions 
were paid for. While I may support the 
pay-fors, I objected to what the pay-
fors are paying for. 

I support freezing the pay of Members 
of Congress, the elimination of 
certain benefits to millionaires, and reducing 
the Federal workforce. But 
wouldn’t we be better using the proceeds 
of these reductions in spending to 
reduce the debt and deficit rather than 
a short-term change that reduces the 
revenues going to the Social Security 
and Medicare trust funds? When are we 
going to admit we are broke? 

I am reminded of a plan approved by 
Congress just several years ago where 
we borrowed money to give citizens a 
$600 rebate, all in the name of a stimulus. 
We wanted to stimulate the economy 
and, in my view, what we did was 
we stimulated little and increased the 
debt a lot. 

Many of us have expressed support 
for the concepts contained in the 
Bowles-Simpson deficit reduction plan. 
Their recommendations are very important 
and we have paid a lot of attention 
to them and expressed our desire 
to proceed in that way. Many 
times we have said that. But the legislation 
we just voted on uses many of 
their suggested reductions in spending, 
not for deficit reduction but for another 
stimulus plan. The Bowles-Simpson 
plan has been hijacked once again 
in the name of stimulating the economy. 


These proposals also undermine the 
foundation of Social Security. We are 
reducing the payments into the trust 
fund. We should leave the trust fund 
alone and cut spending and use those 
savings to pay down our annual deficits 
and live within our means. Once again, 
we are putting off difficult decisions 
and leaving it up to our children and 
grandchildren to pay for our irresponsibility. 


Finally, let me, once again, on this 
floor make the case for certainty in 
our Tax Code. Congress is tinkering tonight 
with the Tax Code, creating 
greater uncertainty. In almost every 
conversation I have with a business 
owner, they ask for certainty in the 
Tax Code and certainty in the regulatory 
environment. But instead, tonight 
we are changing or attempting to 
change the Tax Code one more time, 
for a short period of time, claiming 
some benefit for doing so. Instead, we 
should focus on long-term tax policy 
and a Tax Code that is simpler and certain. 
Certainty is something that will 
create jobs. 

I expect there to be some criticism of 
the votes I just cast, and I can hear the 

campaign sound bites. But we have to 
get beyond the next election and get to 
the next generation. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Oregon. 

f 

DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION 
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, tonight, 
I voted against final passage of 
the Defense authorization bill, and I 
rise now to explain why I voted against 
it and the considerable concerns I have 
about the vast expansion of the powers 
of detention of American citizens that 
were contained in that bill. 
These provisions related to the detention 
of American citizens—without 
the standard rights of the fifth and 
sixth amendment—have been an object 
of intense debate on the floor of the 
Senate over the last several days. 
As a Senator who has now been here 
3 years, I can say unequivocally that 
this debate was extremely valuable. 
Folks came from both parties on both 
sides of this issue and shared their insights, 
both from their life experiences, 
from their scholarly knowledge of the 
law, and certainly from their philosophy, 
and I commend all who participated 
in that debate. I listened to a 
great deal of that debate on both sides. 
I thought this was extraordinarily important; 
issues surrounding our Bill of 
Rights and the rights of American citizens, 
protection from the abuse of 
power. 
Some came to this floor and said that 
essentially the detention provisions in 
this bill simply clarify existing law and 
will enhance our national security, and 
they did so with sincere hearts and 
sharp minds. Others came, equally sincere, 
equally learned, and argued the 
opposite side; that the detention provisions 
in this bill constitute a devastating 
circumvention of the fifth 
amendment right to due process and 
the sixth amendment right to a speedy 
trial by impartial jury, as well as a 
sixth amendment right to confront the 
witnesses against him or her. Maybe it 
is useful to take a look at what the 
fifth and sixth amendments actually 
say. 
One of the last clauses of the fifth 
amendment notes that: 
No person shall be deprived of life, liberty, 
or property without due process of law. 
I think we all grow up in this country 
absolutely believing in this fundamental 
value that the government cannot 
take from you your life, your liberty 
or your property without the process 
of law. 
The sixth amendment notes that, in 
prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy 
the right to a speedy and public trial— 
and I emphasize public trial—by an impartial 
jury of the state. It goes on to 
note that the accused shall be able to 
confront the witnesses against him and 
to have the assistance of counsel. So 
these basic issues of speedy and public 
trial, an impartial jury, the assistance 
of counsel, and the ability to confront 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8141 

the witnesses against you, all of these 
are contained in the sixth amendment 
and all relevant to this debate over detention. 


Most of this conversation is about a 
section of the bill called section 1031, 
subtitle D, and it is referenced subtitle 
D, ‘‘Detainee Matters.’’ I will just read 
the title of the section to give a sense 
of what this is all about. 

Section 1031. Affirmation of authority of 
the Armed Forces of the United States to detain 
covered persons pursuant to the authorization 
of the use of military force. 

It uses this fancy word ‘‘covered persons,’’ 
and it is what is referred to in 
everyday speech as enemy combatants. 
So section 1031 is about the ability of 
the Armed Forces to detain enemy 
combatants. 

The reason this is framed this way is 
that there is a historical exception 
under constitutional findings of the 
Supreme Court to amendment five and 
amendment six of the Constitution. 
That exception is that if an individual 
is fighting on the side of the enemy 
against the United States, they do not 
have the same rights because they are 
now an enemy combatant in time of 
war, and they can be detained for the 
duration of that conflict. This was adjudicated 
in World War II over individuals 
who assisted with sabotage in New 
York, and it was found that the standard 
rights of speedy public trial, trial 
by jury, right to counsel do not apply if 
you are an enemy combatant. Instead, 
you are put into the framework of a 
war setting to be treated as a member 
of the opposing army. 

So this exception has historically 
been extremely narrow. You are on the 
battlefield or you are directly working 
as a member of the enemy force 
against the United States. It should be 
extremely narrow, and it should be 
substantial hurdles for the State to be 
able to simply claim that you are an 
enemy combatant and thereby strip 
you of your fifth and sixth amendment 
rights. 

But what we have in this bill, in section 
1031, is not this narrow set of provisions 
based on the historical understanding 
of an enemy combatant. Instead, 
we have a definition that says ‘‘a 
person who was a part or substantially 
supported al-Qaida, the Taliban, or associated 
forces, engaged in hostilities 
against the U.S. or coalition partners, 
including any person who has committed 
a belligerent act or has directly 
supported such hostilities in aid of 
enemy forces.’’ 

On first reading, it may sound as if 
that individual is directly involved in 
combat, but listen to the words embedded 
in this. First of all, it says ‘‘a part 
of,’’ with no conception of what ‘‘a part 
of’’ means. Did you write one sympathetic 
e-mail in your lifetime? Does 
that make you ‘‘a part of’’? We have no 
standard here. 

‘‘Substantially supported’’ is understood 
to mean material support, but no 
contingency for intent. If you donated 
money to a charity and that charity 

used it to support Taliban activities 
somewhere in the world or some other 
group that had an association with the 
Taliban, you have substantially supported, 
under this conversation. 

Then it says ‘‘the U.S. or its coalition 
partners.’’ Who are these coalition 
partners? What is the definition of 
that? A few weeks ago, you might have 
noticed in the news that there were a 
lot of protests going on in Bahrain. We 
have a military facility in Bahrain. Is 
Bahrain a coalition partner since we 
utilize a partnership with them to supply 
our forces in the Middle East? Yes, 
probably so, because there is no definition 
of ‘‘coalition partner.’’ With individuals 
who were standing up for 
human rights and got into a battle 
with police in a public square, they are 
engaging in a belligerent act against a 
coalition partner. 

I hope you can start to see that the 
standard understanding that has been 
constitutionally established over time 
is completely taken apart in this simple 
paragraph. That should be of grave 
concern to all Americans who care 
about our constitutional rights to a 
fair hearing. 

What happens when the government 
suspects you have done something? I 
want to take you to a case in Oregon. 
We had a case regarding an individual 
named Brandon Mayfield. Brandon 
Mayfield was born in Kansas. Brandon 
Mayfield got his law degree in Topeka, 
KS. Brandon Mayfield is an Army veteran. 
Brandon Mayfield is married with 
three children and lives with family in 
a Topeka suburb. 

Brandon Mayfield is a Muslim convert, 
and in 2004 FBI agents raided his 
law office, his home, and his family 
farm to collect evidence, believing he 
was a terror mastermind behind the 
Madrid bombings. The reason why is an 
FBI agent concluded that a partial fingerprint 
matched Brandon Mayfield’s 
fingerprint. Under this framework, the 
government now labels him an enemy 
combatant, and what right does Brandon 
Mayfield have to contest this? Basically, 
no rights. The law provides 
only that there will be a hearing; that 
the rules of the hearing will be set by 
the executive branch—by the President, 
if you will; that the attorney will 
be assigned by the executive branch; 
that the rules of evidence will be determined 
by the executive branch; that 
this hearing will occur sometime—but 
when? We don’t know. There is no right 
to a speedy trial, there is no commitment 
that it will be public; in other 
words, no protections from the force of 
the State whatsoever—completely the 
opposite. 

This gateway around the fifth and 
sixth amendments is very loosely defined 
rather than tightly defined. The 
entire process by which an individual 
might try to say ‘‘You are wrong, that 
was not me, I was not there’’ is extraordinarily 
without powers for the 
defendant. 

I find that outrageous because once 
that hearing occurs, possibly in secret 

without an attorney that the individual 
would like to employ, without 
rights to evidence, without an ability 
to confront the witnesses against him 
or her—without any of these rights, 
that person can now be locked away 
forever under this law. There is no 
right to appeal, no right to contest, 
and therefore this completely works 
against the principles we hold dear. 
Those principles were set up—the fifth 
amendment and sixth amendments 
were set up to defend us against the 
overreach of an executive branch. Yet 
tonight we have stripped away those 
protections. 

A lot of the conversation over the 
last few days has noted that there was 
a historical gate through which you did 
not have the fifth and sixth amendment 
but also recognized how narrow 
that was. What we have done today 
changes that. 

I hope this continues to receive substantial 
attention. I would have hoped 
there would be hearings about this phenomenal 
change in U.S. law adopted tonight 
because this sort of thing should 
not be done lightly. It should not be 
placed at the last second into a Defense 
authorization bill without extensive 
consideration, extensive testimony by 
experts on all sides of this issue. 

There is another feature of this bill 
that I think deserves attention, and 
that is that it creates a presumption 
for certain types of crimes to be tried 
in military tribunals rather than in civilian 
courts. Many of my colleagues 
are much more familiar with this than 
I am, but they have come to the floor 
and noted that 300 individuals who 
have been accused of terrorist-related 
crimes have been tried in civilian 
courts and found guilty, versus 6 in 
military courts. They have noted that 
because the FBI is immersed in the 
process of getting evidence out of individuals, 
they are masters at it, which 
helps to explain these 300 convictions 
versus the 6 in military courts. But the 
law tonight creates a presumption that 
they can be tried in a military court 
under an argument that several of my 
colleagues have made that simply the 
military is better at it. But there is 
not one shred of evidence brought that 
the military is better and lots of evidence 
about the sophisticated, experienced, 
systematic, and successful efforts 
of the FBI. 

Mr. President, I would like to conclude 
by summarizing that all that we 
hold dear as Americans in this Constitution 
about our fair rights as citizens 
has been trampled on tonight. 
This has happened twice before in this 
Chamber, and the Supreme Court has 
thrown it out twice before. I hope they 
will find a case that this will put before 
the Court again because it is the responsibility 
of the Court to keep taking 
us back to this document, this Constitution, 
when we waver from the 
course it lays out. There should not be 
a situation that the government can 
simply assert that the President, no 
matter what President it is—this 


S8142 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

President or any future President, 
whether it be President Bush, whether 
it be President Obama, whether it be 
the next President of the United States 
or one of five Presidencies into the future—
they should not be able to say: 
You, Joe American, I am calling you 
an enemy combatant. I am locking you 
up. I am assigning your defender—your 
court attorney if you will. I am deciding 
the rules of evidence. I am deciding 
if it is going to be secret. And after I 
conclude that there is enough evidence 
because of a partial fingerprint, I am 
locking you up forever, and there is not 
a damned thing you can do about it. 

Brandon Mayfield was locked up, and 
he might have been locked up forever if 
this law had been in place. But the FBI 
made a mistake. The FBI completely 
botched the fingerprint comparison. It 
was Spain that brought it to our attention. 
Spain kept saying: America, you 
have the wrong guy. America, you have 
the wrong fingerprint. And it was 
Spain that found the right match, and 
it was finally our own system that 
said: Yes, we made a mistake, and we 
are setting Brandon Mayfield free. But 
under what was done tonight, he may 
never have seen the light of day outside 
of his prison. That is not right. It 
is not, absolutely not a contributor to 
the security of this country to strip 
away fair rights of due process, to summon 
the evidence, to confront your accusers 
and make sure that a just decision 
occurs. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

f 

RECOGNIZING WORLD AIDS DAY 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today is 
World AIDS Day, a time for us to reflect 
on one of the worst plagues the 
world has experienced. This year also 
marks the 30th anniversary of the first 
appearance of the disease in the United 
States. 

For three decades this preventable 
disease has devastated families and 
communities around the world. It has 
killed over 25 million people. But there 
has been a strong global response from 
the research community, governments, 
health workers, and patient advocates 
to fight this disease and save lives. 
This battle has yielded notable victories, 
and I am proud of the leadership 
the United States has demonstrated in 
the fight against AIDS. 

The number of newly infected people 
in the world is steadily declining. Successful 
antiretroviral treatments have 
saved 2.5 million lives in developing 
countries. Advancements have been 
made in HIV testing and prevention, 
and biomedical innovations have created 
powerful drugs that can transform 
AIDS from a death sentence into a 
more manageable chronic disease. Most 
recently, promising tests in gene therapies 
and vaccines are giving researchers 
renewed hope for a way to prevent 
the spread of HIV. Some scientists are 
becoming optimistic about the possibility 
of a cure. 

Despite this considerable progress, 
however, an estimated 34 million peo


ple in the world are still suffering from 
AIDS—5 million more than in 2002. 
Only about half of them have access to 
ongoing medical treatment that is essential 
to making HIV/AIDS a manageable 
disease. 

Today President Obama announced 
two new initiatives that will enable us 
to build on our successful efforts to 
combat HIV/AIDS here in America. 
First, the United States will commit 
$15 million to the Ryan White program, 
which supports HIV clinics around the 
country. In addition, we will commit 
$35 million to State AIDS drug assistance 
programs. 

I commend the President and his administration 
on these critical new 
commitments. They represent the next 
step in America’s first-ever National 
HIV/AIDS Strategy, which the President 
introduced in 2010. They remind 
us that AIDS doesn’t just affect people 
in developing countries—1.2 million 
people are currently living with HIV/ 
AIDS in the United States, and over 
600,000 people here have died from this 
deadly virus. 

Thirty years into this epidemic, the 
burden of the disease in America continues 
to be disproportionately borne 
by gay and bisexual men and people of 
color. While African Americans represent 
12 percent of the U.S. population, 
they account for almost half of 
all people living with HIV and half of 
new infections each year. 

In the State of Illinois, over 37,000 
people have HIV or AIDS. Eighty-three 
percent of those people make their 
homes in Chicago. All of these lives depend 
upon continued Federal commitment 
to investment in research and 
treatments. 

There is hope. Organizations such as 
AIDS Foundation Chicago—the umbrella 
group for HIV/AIDS groups 
working in Chicago—are dedicated to 
eliminating the disease in the United 
States. The ONE Campaign is a grassroots 
organization that works closely 
with African leaders and activists to 
stop the spread of preventable diseases 
such as HIV/AIDS. These two groups 
are examples of the many groups of 
people of conscience who are working 
to make HIV/AIDS history. The promising 
new biomedical research in gene 
therapies and vaccines gives me hope 
that we can someday eliminate AIDS 
and in the meantime improve the lives 
of those who are affected by it both 
here and abroad. But these important 
programs depend upon the Federal 
Government’s will and ability to fund 
them. Unfortunately, these programs 
are at risk. 

The U.N. recently released a progress 
report on the global response to AIDS. 
It said: 

Financial pressures on both domestic and 
foreign assistance budgets are threatening 
the impressive progress to date. Recent data 
indicating that HIV funding is declining is a 
deeply troubling trend that must be reversed 
for the international community to meet its 
commitments on HIV. 

The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, 
and Malaria—the inter


national financing institution that invests 
the world’s money into fighting 
these deadly diseases—has recently announced 
that the decline in funds is 
putting the fund in a tough spot. It 
can’t award any new grants until 2014. 

As Congress debates the deficit, we 
should remember that the fight against 
AIDS has always been a bipartisan effort. 
It was under the administration of 
President George W. Bush that 
PEPFAR—now the Tom Lantos and 
Henry J. Hyde U.S. Global Leadership 
against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria Act—was created. PEPFAR 
and other notable programs continue 
to be strengthened under the Obama 
administration. Today our President 
reminded us of this historical bipartisan 
support. He said: 

At a time when so much in Washington divides 
us, the fight against this disease has 
united us across parties and across presidents. 
And it shows that we can do big things 
when Republicans and Democrats put their 
common humanity before politics. 

We need to cut the deficit, but let’s 
be smart about it. The fact is that 
every dollar we cut from HIV/AIDS research 
and treatment this year means 
additional funding will be required the 
next year and the next. But this is not 
just about saving taxpayer dollars, as 
important as that is. Most of all, this 
is about saving lives. Every dollar not 
funded this year will exact a horrible 
toll. Men, women, and children will die 
who otherwise could have been saved. 
People who would have lived longer, 
healthier lives will have to rely on 
overly burdened programs such as 
Medicare and Medicaid just to survive. 
We must not allow that to happen. 

Several years ago, I visited a program 
in Uganda for women who were 
dying of AIDS. We sat on the porch, 
and the women showed me scrapbooks 
they were making. They were gathering 
together photos, notes, and other 
bits of memorabilia about their lives so 
that their children would have some 
way to remember them after they died. 
Their children, playing in the yard, had 
already lost one parent and were now 
about to be orphaned. As I sat with 
those mothers, all of Uganda began to 
feel like a terminal ward of a hospital—
an entire nation waiting to die. 
That is not true anymore. Today, because 
of discoveries by scientists and 
the determination of people of conscience, 
there is hope in Uganda and 
other desperately poor nations that 
have been hit hard by the HIV/AIDS 
pandemic. 

There is also hope here at home. The 
United States continues to demonstrate 
its leadership in eliminating 
HIV/AIDS, but we cannot allow our efforts 
to fail for lack of funding and support. 
The elimination of HIV/AIDS is 
one of our most important commitments 
to the people of this country and 
the world, and we ought to keep that 
promise. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8143 

REMEMBERING BISHOP ODIS 
FLOYD 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, just as a 
building needs a foundation, every 
community needs pillars—people who 
provide strength, inspiration, guidance, 
and leadership, people to rally around 
in tough times. Today, the city of 
Flint, MI, is missing one of its pillars. 

Bishop Odis Floyd of New Jerusalem 
Full Gospel Baptist Church died this 
week at the age of 71 after a long illness. 
For more than four decades, he 
was the spiritual leader of the church 
he helped his grandfather found. At an 
imposing 6-foot-6, with a powerful 
preaching and singing voice, he became 
known around the country for his stirring 
sermons and appeared on a number 
of gospel music albums. Whether in 
quiet conversation with a church member 
or in powerful preaching from the 
pulpit, he was a spiritual giant. 

His faith taught him to reach out beyond 
his church, not just with spiritual 
guidance but to lend a hand to those in 
need. The church’s charitable and outreach 
efforts under his leadership have 
had an enormous impact. They include 
programs to provide a safe and welcoming 
place for children; educational 
efforts; assistance to those who need 
medical care, food, and clothing; counseling 
and social work services, and 
much more. 

Bishop Floyd also was a valued adviser 
to business and community leaders 
in Flint, in Michigan, and beyond. I 
was fortunate to visit with him on 
many occasions, and I valued those visits 
for his knowledge of the community 
and the quality of his counsel. His love 
and concern for Flint ran deep, and no 
matter the challenge, he was always at 
the forefront of those looking for solutions. 
His commitment to his community 
was profound and provided a shining 
example to others. 

Whether it was in preaching the gospel 
he felt so deeply or in reaching out 
to help others, one word sums up the 
gift Bishop Floyd brought to those 
around him: hope. ‘‘People need hope,’’ 
he once told an interviewer, ‘‘and 
that’s always what I want to give 
them.’’ 

His loss has deprived the community 
he loved of a strong and steady pillar. 
It now falls to all those who care about 
Flint to take up where he left off and 
to continue his work to improve the 
city and lives of its citizens. 

Many will miss him, but none more 
than the family he loved: his wife and 
partner, Brenda; son Anthony; daughters, 
Nikki and Toyia, who served admirably 
as an intern in my office; and 
five grandchildren. Barbara and I send 
our condolences to them, to the members 
of New Jerusalem Full Gospel 
Baptist Church, and to the thousands 
who have, in ways great and small, 
been touched by Bishop Floyd’s 
strength, generosity, and faith. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO ANDY SWAPP 
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, this past 
August I had the opportunity to visit 

Beaver County, Utah, where I met an 
educator who is working tirelessly to 
prepare our Nation’s youth for success 
in our transformative economy. This 
rural area of southwest Utah is home 
to my State’s major energy initiatives, 
including the largest wind farm in 
Utah. 

In 2001 a local shop teacher, Andy 
Swapp, observed that Milford, UT could 
capitalize on the powerful winds in the 
area. Inspiring his students to learn 
about renewable energy, the class applied 
to Utah’s anemometer loan program 
to erect a 20 meter meteorological 
tower. As the students collected 
and analyzed the wind data, they attracted 
the attention of a wind prospector 
named Curtis Whittaker. Mr. 
Whittaker was impressed with the preliminary 
data but more so with the 
dedication, enthusiasm and accomplishments 
of eighth grade students. 
He sent a 50 meter tower to Milford 
High School for Mr. Swapp and students 
to construct in the wind-swept 
desert. Mr. Swapp used the real world 
project to teach students about wind 
turbines and power outputs, inspiring 
students to apply their classroom lessons 
to developing solutions for affordable, 
abundant energy. As the commercial 
wind farm developed, Mr. Swapp’s 
classes were continually relied upon for 
data collection while receiving training 
in wind farm maintenance operations. 
Over the last decade, Mr. 
Swapp’s students participated in all 
phases of completing Utah’s largest 
commercial wind farm. 

Mr. Swapp’s dedication to fostering 
student learning and success is not 
limited to wind power. His classes at 
Milford High School won a Rocky 
Mountain Power ‘‘Bluesky’’ grant to 
install a 10 kilowatt array of solar panels 
on a dual axis tracker on the front 
lawn of the school, and a roof top 
mounted solar array. The students 
were allowed to work with the contractor, 
helping install the $125,000 system. 
The students are now monitoring 
the energy production to compare the 
dual axis tracker with the standard 
technology. His classes also participate 
in national electric race car construction 
contests. 

To broaden the education of his students, 
Mr. Swapp organized the Milford 
Renewable Energy Fair. With support 
from South West Applied Technology 
College, the fair has grown to include 
secondary schools from all over the 
State and major vendors in the industry. 
Milford High School is also home 
to the Southwest Renewable Energy 
Center, which Mr. Swapp helped devise 
to promote the energy-rich area of Beaver 
County and Southwest Utah. It is a 
collaboration of secondary schools, 
technical colleges, 4-year universities, 
State-wide economic advancement districts, 
research and development partnerships 
and technology commercialization 
firms. This center connects 
students to jobs, internships, and 
scholarships. 

Mr. Swapp is an outstanding example 
of educators bringing learning to life 

and helping students envision a sustainable 
future. Mr. Swapp’s students 
have enrolled in energy and engineering 
programs at Southern Utah University 
and Southwest Applied Technology 
College. They have secured 
high-skill, high paying jobs in their 
hometown. Their paths have been inspired 
by the curiosity, creativity and 
dedication of their teacher. 

Prior to becoming an educator, Mr. 
Swapp served our country as a career 
infantry Sergeant in the U.S. Army. 
Following his service, he returned to 
Utah to offer rural students the very 
best in education, to expand their horizons, 
and to foster a positive attitude 
for their future. Mr. Swapp has been an 
example to his students by completing 
an Associate of Science, AS, from Dixie 
State College, a Bachelor of Science 
from Southern Utah University, and a 
Master of Science from Utah State 
University. 

Mr. President, I was really impressed 
with what I experienced in meeting 
Andy. I wanted to highlight the important, 
innovative work of a successful 
educator engaged in leading our Nation 
into the future. 

f 

WORLD AIDS DAY 
Mr. NELSON of Florida. Mr. President, 
musicians Bono and Alicia Keys 
are in Washington, DC, today to meet 
with Presidents Obama, Clinton, and 
Bush about what is next in the global 
battle against AIDS. They note that we 
are reaching a tipping point on combating 
HIV/AIDS worldwide, which is 
why they and many others, including 
myself, believe continued U.S. leadership 
is critical. 
It is fitting that this gathering is 
taking place today—World AIDS Day. 
We all should remember that HIV/AIDS 
has claimed the lives of more than 
550,000 Americans so far, while 1.1 million 
others are living with the disease. 
Florida has been hit particularly 
hard: about 100,000 people are living 
with HIV/AIDS. Florida has the longest 
waiting list of low-income residents 
waiting for assistance with the high 
cost of lifesaving medications. More 
than 3,000 Floridians are on that list; 
and, alarmingly, the number could 
grow as the State considers cutting 
more than 1,600 who already are in the 
government-backed program. 
Federal, State, and local governments 
must understandably tighten 
their belts. But focusing on such short-
term savings is horribly shortsighted. 
For several reasons, these cuts will 
only lead to higher costs to taxpayers 
in the long run—cases will become 
more difficult to manage, transmission 
rates are likely to increase, and patients 
will more frequently need expensive 
care in emergency rooms and hospitals. 
We must also remain committed to 
the goals of the President’s Emergency 
Plan for AIDS Relief globally. Among 
the goals are to prevent more than 12 
million new HIV infections and provide 


S8144 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

care for more than 12 million people, health coverage after returning to express my appreciation to Amy Black 
including 5 million orphans and chil-work, and a continuation of Medicare for her hard work as an intern in my 
dren around the world. coverage for individuals who are work-Washington, DC, office. I recognize her 
f ing. efforts and contributions to my office 

REMEMBERING DR. SUSAN M. 
DANIELS 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I wish to 
pay tribute to a much respected and 
beloved leader in America’s disability 
community, the late Dr. Susan Daniels. 


Dr. Daniels acquired her disability at 
a very young age. Though she spent 
much of her early years in rehabilitation 
institutes and hospitals, her parents 
advocated for her full inclusion in 
school and in the life of her local community. 
As a consequence, Susan attended 
regular elementary and secondary 
schools. She went on to graduate 
summa cum laude from Marquette 
University, and to earn her master’s 
degree at Mississippi State University 
and her Ph.D. from the University of 
North Carolina. And I would note that 
she achieved these things before the 
days of accessible campuses. 

While still in her twenties, Dr. Daniels 
served as chair of the Department 
of Rehabilitation Counseling at Louisiana 
State University Medical Center. 
There, she developed an innovative 
program to train individuals to work 
directly in community-based settings 
with people with developmental disabilities. 
This program became a core 
element in Louisiana’s efforts to deinstitutionalize 
people with disabilities. 

Throughout her adult life, Dr. Daniels 
was a passionate advocate for people 
with disabilities. She served as Associate 
Commissioner of the Rehabilitation 
Services Administration in the 

U.S. Department of Education, and as 
Associate Commissioner of the Administration 
on Developmental Disabilities, 
ADD, in the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services. While at 
ADD, she developed the Home of Your 
Own Program to assist people with developmental 
disabilities in their quest 
to become homeowners in their communities. 
It is one of Dr. Daniels’ living 
legacies that this Home of Your 
Own Program is now operating in 27 
States. 
Perhaps Dr. Daniels’ greatest accomplishment 
was her leadership in passing 
the Ticket to Work and Work Incentive 
Improvement Act of 1999. Appointed 
by President Clinton to serve 
as Deputy Commissioner for Disability 
and Income Security Programs at the 
Social Security Administration, she 
worked tirelessly to lay the groundwork 
for this legislation. The Ticket to 
Work Act created employment incentives 
and healthcare provisions for 
workers with disabilities, and removed 
many of the systemic barriers that 
often required citizens with disabilities 
to make a stark choice between working 
or retaining their health coverage. 
Two of the most important provisions 
of this legislation are the authorization 
for a State Medicaid buy-in program 
to allow individuals to maintain 

Dr. Daniels was also very active in 
the fight for disability rights internationally. 
She addressed many conferences 
and research forums in Africa, 
Europe, and Asia. And she advised governments 
on the best ways to set up social 
insurance programs for individuals 
with disabilities. She served as president 
of the U.S. International Council 
on Rehabilitation, and was Rehabilitation 
International’s deputy vice president. 
In 1998, she played a lead role in 
convening the International Women 
with Disabilities Leadership Forum. 

Dr. Daniels was the recipient of 
many awards for her work, including 
the prestigious Henry B. Betts Award, 
which honors individuals who have 
made transformative differences in the 
lives of people with disabilities. 

Dr. Daniels played leadership roles in 
a wide range of national and international 
organizations, but she also 
worked for change at the individual 
level, mentoring and sponsoring countless 
young men and women with disabilities 
both in the U.S. and abroad. 

Susan’s husband, John Watson, and 
many other family members, friends, 
and colleagues will gather for a memorial 
service in her honor at the National 
Press Club here in Washington 
on December 4. I will be with them in 
spirit as they celebrate a determined 
advocate and a truly bright light, a 
woman who was and is an inspiration 
to people with disabilities around the 
world. 

f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

TRIBUTE TO HALEY BARTON 
S Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I 
would like to take the opportunity to 
express my appreciation to Haley Barton 
for her hard work as an intern in 
my Washington, DC, office. I recognize 
her efforts and contributions to my office 
as well as to the State of Wyoming. 
Haley is a native of Wyoming and 
graduated from Lander Valley High 
School. She attends the University of 
Wyoming, where she is majoring in political 
science and history. Throughout 
her internship, she has demonstrated a 
strong work ethic which has made her 
an invaluable asset to our office. The 
quality of her work is reflected in her 
great efforts over the last several 
months. 
I want to thank Haley for the dedication 
she has shown while working for 
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to 
have her as part of our team. I know 
she will have continued success with 
all of her future endeavors. I wish her 
all my best on her next journey.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO AMY BLACK 
S Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I 
would like to take the opportunity to 

as well as to the State of Wyoming. 

Amy is a native of Wyoming and 
graduated from Kelly Walsh High 
School. She attends the University of 
Wyoming, where she is majoring in political 
science. Throughout her internship, 
she has demonstrated a strong 
work ethic which has made her an invaluable 
asset to our office. The quality 
of her work is reflected in her great 
efforts over the last several months. 

I want to thank Amy for the dedication 
she has shown while working for 
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to 
have her as part of our team. I know 
she will have continued success with 
all of her future endeavors. I wish her 
all my best on her next journey.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO KAITLYNN GLOVER 

S Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I 
would like to take the opportunity to 
express my appreciation to Kaitlynn 
Glover for her hard work as an intern 
in my Washington, DC, office. I recognize 
her efforts and contributions to 
my office as well as to the State of Wyoming. 


Kaitlynn is a native of Wyoming and 
graduated from Natrona County High 
School. She attends the University of 
Wyoming, where she is majoring in agriculture 
communications. Throughout 
her internship, she has demonstrated a 
strong work ethic which has made her 
an invaluable asset to our office. The 
quality of her work is reflected in her 
great efforts over the last several 
months. 

I want to thank Kaitlynn for the 
dedication she has shown while working 
for me and my staff. It was a pleasure 
to have her as part of our team. I 
know she will have continued success 
with all of her future endeavors. I wish 
her all my best on her next journey.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO MANDI MOSHER 

S Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I 
would like to take the opportunity to 
express my appreciation to Mandi 
Mosher for her hard work as an intern 
in my Casper office. I recognize her efforts 
and contributions to my office as 
well as to the State of Wyoming. 

Mandi is a native of Wyoming and 
graduated from Glenrock High School. 
She attends the University of Wyoming 
where she is majoring in social work. 
She has demonstrated a strong work 
ethic which has made her an invaluable 
asset to our office. The quality of her 
work is reflected in her great efforts 
over the time she has been with us. 

I want to thank Mandi for the dedication 
she has shown while working for 
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to 
have her as part of our team. I know 
she will have continued success with 
all of her future endeavors. I wish her 
all my best on her next journey.S 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8145 

TRIBUTE TO RIO SMITH 

S Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I 
would like to take the opportunity to 
express my appreciation to Rio Smith 
for his hard work as an intern in the 

U.S. Senate Committee on Indian Affairs. 
I recognize his efforts and contributions 
to my office as well as to the 
State of Wyoming. 
Rio is a native of Wyoming and graduated 
from Cheyenne Central High 
School. He attends Stonehill College in 
Massachusetts where he is majoring in 
business administration. Throughout 
his internship, he has demonstrated a 
strong work ethic which has made him 
an invaluable asset to our office. The 
quality of his work is reflected in his 
great efforts over the time he has been 
with us. 

I want to thank Rio for the dedication 
he has shown while working for 
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to 
have him as part of our team. I know 
he will have continued success with all 
of his future endeavors. I wish him all 
my best on his next journey.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO KALEIGH WILLIAMS 
S Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I 
would like to take the opportunity to 
express my appreciation to Kaleigh 
Williams for her hard work as an intern 
in my Cheyenne office. I recognize 
her efforts and contributions to my office 
as well as to the State of Wyoming. 
Kaleigh is a native of Wyoming and 
graduated from Cheyenne East High 
School. She attends the University of 
Wyoming where she is majoring in political 
science. She has demonstrated a 
strong work ethic which has made her 
an invaluable asset to our office. The 
quality of her work is reflected in her 
great efforts over the last several 
months. 
I want to thank Kaleigh for the dedication 
she has shown while working for 
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to 
have her as part of our team. I know 
she will have continued success with 
all of her future endeavors. I wish her 
all my best on her next journey.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO PEASE GREETERS 
S Ms. AYOTTE. Mr. President, today I 
wish to honor the memory of Charles 
Nichols II, a World War II veteran who 
helped start the Pease Greeters—a New 
Hampshire-based volunteer group that 
honors the brave U.S. service members 
who touch down at Portsmouth’s Pease 
International Airport. 

A decorated marine who represented 
the very best of America’s ‘‘greatest 
generation’’, Mr. Nichols understood 
the critical importance of showing support 
for our troops. Thanks to the 
Pease Greeters, service men and 
women returning from, and traveling 
to, Iraq, Afghanistan, and other deployments 
have arrived at Pease and 
found smiling faces and a warm welcome—
along with good food and a 
phone to call home. 

As a cofounder of the Pease Greeters, 
Mr. Nichols helped launch a very special 
Seacoast tradition that sets the 
standard for how we ought to recognize 
our service members. I join citizens 
across New Hampshire and Maine in expressing 
my gratitude for Mr. Nichols’ 
service to our country, his commitment 
to supporting America’s troops, 
and his contributions to the life of the 
Seacoast Region.S 

f 

MARKING THE RETIREMENT OF 

BOB CONNERS 
S Mr. BROWN. Mr. President. I rise 
today to honor Bob Conners, the retiring 
long-time voice on radio for thousands 
of Ohioans in Central Ohio, who 
broadcasted his final show on WTVN on 
November 30, 2011. 

Bob and I have not always agreed on 
the issues, but he has always been the 
consummate professional. He is fair 
and dignified in discussions ever since 
he took to the airwaves back in 1964. 
And he is always armed with a quick 
wit. I spoke with Bob earlier this week. 
He told me that during his retirement 
he plans to learn a foreign language. 
When I asked which one, he said he 
wanted to master English first. That 
endearing sense of humor earned him 
the trust of listeners across Central 
Ohio. And as those who have listened 
to him over the years know, he has not 
only mastered English, he has mastered 
morning radio. 

Growing up in St Marys, PA, Bob 
first wanted to become a radio actor, 
inspired by the Lone Ranger and encouraged 
by his father. He got his start 
on the airwaves when he was in high 
school, earning $45 per month as a 
radio deejay. After graduating from 
high school, Bob worked in Erie, Buffalo, 
San Diego, and Pittsburgh. He 
served our nation and volunteered for 
the Army in 1956. 

By 1964, he joined WTVN in Central 
Ohio. Bob cemented his loyal following 
in the afternoons transitioning from 
music to a talk radio format. Some 
memorable stories of his time on air 
relate to his beloved Ohio State Buckeyes 
football team, led at the time by 
the famed Woody Hayes. 

‘‘The Morning Monarch,’’ as he would 
be known while hosting the Bob 
Conners Show beginning in 1978, he 
brought in more listeners and would 
eventually range 33 years, six U.S. 
presidents, and five Ohio State football 
coaches. And as much as he enriched 
the lives of his listeners, he also served 
his community away from the microphone, 
volunteering with the Boys and 
Girls Clubs of Columbus and the Charity 
Newsies. 

Bob Conners had the ear of his listeners 
because they could trust him, 
whether they agreed or disagreed with 
him. It is that admirable trait we will 
miss with his retirement. But it is that 
endearing quality that’s earned him 
this retirement and no more 3 a.m. 
wake-up calls. 

Bob, I wish you and Linda all the 
best in your retirement. Thank you for 

all that you have done for your listeners 
and for our great State.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO ED STRICKFADEN 
S Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I rise 
today to recognize and pay tribute to 
an outstanding public servant, Ed 
Strickfaden. Today, the Idaho State 
Police will be naming a building after 
Ed, who served as the director of the 
Idaho State Police and was a 35-year 
veteran of the department. He is very 
deserving of this honor, and I congratulate 
him on this special day. 
Ed Strickfaden graduated from Council 
High School, located in a small 
rural town in southwestern Idaho. He 
honorably served in the U.S. Air Force 
before beginning his career with the 
Idaho State Police. In 1967, he was 
hired as a port of entry officer, and 
from there he worked his way up the 
ranks, serving in almost every region 
of the State. 
In 1980, he was promoted from a patrolman 
in the Lewiston area to a sergeant 
in Twin Falls. By 1984, he was 
district commander in Idaho Falls, 
then moving to the district commander 
position in Coeur d’Alene the following 
year. 
He served in the headquarters office 
beginning in 1991, first as a major in 
charge of field operations, then as a 
deputy superintendent of the Idaho 
State Police. He was appointed ISP superintendent 
by Gov. Phil Batt and 
served 4 years in that position prior to 
his appointment as director of the Department 
of Law Enforcement by Gov. 
Dirk Kempthorne in January 1999. 
Colonel Strickfaden undertook a 
major reorganization of the Idaho 
State Police, streamlining its functions 
and enhancing training throughout 
the department. He even initiated 
the name change to Idaho State Police, 
effective July 1, 2000. 
With his years of service, rising 
through the ranks and serving in all 
parts of Idaho, Colonel Strickfaden understood 
more than most what was 
needed and how to do it. He was a man 
of uncompromising integrity and had 
the utmost respect of those he led and 
the respect of the state’s elected officials. 
Today, the Idaho State Police and 
the people of Idaho honor this humble 
man by putting his name on the building 
at ISP headquarters. It is a fitting 
tribute to a great leader and a wonderful 
human being. We are all very grateful 
for the many years of exemplary 
service Colonel Ed Strickfaden has provided 
to our great State. 
I would be remiss if I did not also 
mention Colonel Strickfaden’s wonderful 
family and especially his wife Barbara 
for her strong support throughout 
Ed’s career. Together, they have served 
the people of Idaho with great distinction.
S 

f 

MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 
Messages from the President of the 
United States were communicated to 


S8146 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

the Senate by Mr. Pate, one of his sec-EC–4115. A communication from the Direc-port of a rule entitled ‘‘Public Sales’’ 
retaries. 

tor of the Regulatory Management Division, (RIN1004–AD74) received during recess of the 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-Senate in the Office of the President of the 

f 

ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-Senate on August 11, 2011; to the Committee 

EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED 

As in executive session the Presiding 
Officer laid before the Senate messages 
from the President of the United 
States submitting sundry nominations 
and a withdrawal which were referred 
to the appropriate committees. 

(The nominations received today are 
printed at the end of the Senate proceedings.) 


f 

MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE 

At 1:36 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, 
announced that the House has passed 
the following bill, in which it requests 
the concurrence of the Senate: 

H.R. 3094. An act to amend the National 
Labor Relations Act with respect to representation 
hearings and the timing of elections 
of labor organizations under that Act. 
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

At 6:13 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the Speaker has signed 
the following enrolled bill: 

H.R. 394. An act to amend title 28, United 
States Code, to clarify the jurisdiction of the 
Federal courts, and for other purposes. 
The enrolled bill was subsequently 
signed by the President pro tempore 
(Mr. INOUYE). 

f 

MEASURES PLACED ON THE 
CALENDAR 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were read the second time, and 
placed on the calendar: 

S. 1930. A bill to prohibit earmarks. 
S. 1931. A bill to provide civilian payroll 
tax relief, to reduce the Federal budget deficit, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 1932. A bill to require the Secretary of 
State to act on a permit for the Keystone XL 
pipeline. 
S.J. Res. 30. Joint resolution extending the 
cooling-off period under section 10 of the 
Railway Labor Act with respect to the dispute 
referred to in Executive Order No. 13586 
of October 6, 2011. 
S.J. Res. 31. Joint resolution applying certain 
conditions to the dispute referred to in 
Executive Order 13586 of October 6, 2011, between 
the enumerated freight rail carriers, 
common carriers by rail in interstate commerce, 
and certain of their employees represented 
by labor organizations that have 
not agreed to extend the cooling-off period 
under section 10 of the Railway Labor Act 
beyond 12:01 a.m. on December 6, 2011. 
S.J. Res. 32. Joint resolution to provide for 
the resolution of the outstanding issues in 
the current railway labor-management dispute. 
f 

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
and were referred as indicated: 

titled ‘‘Fenamidone; Pesticide Tolerances’’ 
(FRL No. 9325–4) received during adjournment 
of the Senate in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 22, 2011; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–4116. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Prohexadione Calcium; Pesticide Tolerances’’ 
(FRL No. 9326–4) received during 
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 22, 
2011; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–4117. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Polyethylene glycol; Tolerance Exemption’’ 
(FRL No. 8892–1) received during 
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 22, 
2011; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–4118. A communication from the Acting 
Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and 
Readiness), transmitting a report on the approved 
retirement of Admiral Patrick M. 
Walsh, United States Navy, and his advancement 
to the grade of admiral on the retired 
list; to the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–4119. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense (Legislative Affairs), 
transmitting a legislative proposal 
relative to the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2012; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–4120. A communication from the Associate 
General Counsel for Legislation and 
Regulations, Office of Housing, Department 
of Housing and Urban Development, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Federal Housing Administration 
(FHA) Appraiser Roster: Appraiser Qualifications 
for Placement on the FHA Appraiser 
Roster’’ (RIN2502–AI96) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
30, 2011; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–4121. A communication from the Chief 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, Department of Homeland Security, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Final Flood Elevation Determinations’’ 
((44 CFR Part 67)(Docket No. 
FEMA–2011–0002)) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 29, 
2011; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–4122. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a six-month periodic report on 
the national emergency with respect to the 
stabilization of Iraq that was declared in Executive 
Order 13303 of May 22, 2003; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–4123. A communication from the Division 
Chief of Regulatory Affairs, Bureau of 
Land Management, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Geothermal Resource 
Leasing and Geothermal Resources Unit 
Agreements’’ (RIN1004–AD86) received during 
recess of the Senate in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on August 11, 2011; to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–4124. A communication from the Division 
Chief of Regulatory Affairs, Bureau of 
Land Management, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-

on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–4125. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air 
Quality Implementation Plans; West Virginia 
and Ohio; Determinations of Attainment 
of the 1997 Annual Fine Particle Standard 
for the Parkersburg-Marietta and Wheeling 
Nonattainment Areas’’ (FRL No. 9498–7) 
received in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 29, 2011; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–4126. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air 
Quality Implementation Plans; Louisiana; 
Revisions to Control Volatile Organic Compound 
Emissions for Surface Coatings and 
Graphic Arts’’ (FRL No. 9496–8) received in 
the Office of the President of the Senate on 
November 29, 2011; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–4127. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Implementation 
Plans and Designation of Areas 
for Air Quality Planning; Louisiana; Baton 
Rouge Area: Redesignation to Attainment 
for the 1997 8-Hour Ozone Standard’’ (FRL 
No. 9498–2) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 29, 2011; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–4128. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Revisions to the California State Implementation 
Plan, Placer County Air Pollution 
Control District’’ (FRL No. 9493–2) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 29, 2011; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–4129. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse 
Gases’’ (FRL No. 9493–9) received during adjournment 
of the Senate in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 22, 
2011; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–4130. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Implementation 
Plans and Designation of Areas 
for Air Quality Planning Purposes; North 
Carolina: Redesignation of the Hickory-Mor-
ganton-Lenoir 1997 Annual Fine Particulate 
Matter Nonattainment Area to Attainment’’ 
(FRL No. 9493–5) received during adjournment 
of the Senate in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 22, 2011; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–4131. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Implementation 
Plans and Designation of Areas 
for Air Quality Planning Purposes; North 
Carolina: Redesignation of the Greensboro– 
Winston-Salem–High Point 1997 Annual Fine 
Particulate Matter Nonattainment Area to 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8147 

Attainment’’ (FRL No. 9493–6) received during 
adjournment of the Senate in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
22, 2011; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–4132. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Implementation 
Plans; Texas; Revisions to the 
New Source Review (NSR) State Implementation 
Plan (SIP); General Definitions; Definition 
of Modification of Existing Facility’’ 
(FRL No. 9489–8) received during adjournment 
of the Senate in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 22, 2011; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–4133. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air 
Quality Implementation Plans; West Virginia; 
Determination of Clean Data for the 
2006 Fine Particulate Standard for the 
Charleston Area’’ (FRL No. 9494–2) received 
during adjournment of the Senate in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
22, 2011; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–4134. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air 
Quality Implementation Plans; Delaware; 
Amendments to the Control of Volatile Organic 
Compound Emissions from Offset Lithographic 
Printing and Letterpress Printing’’ 
(FRL No. 9493–1) received during adjournment 
of the Senate in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 22, 2011; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–4135. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air 
Quality Implementation Plans; Virginia; Update 
to Materials Incorporated by Reference’’ 
(FRL No. 9490–3) received during adjournment 
of the Senate in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 22, 
2011; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–4136. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Oil Pollution Prevention; Spill Prevention, 
Control, and Countermeasure 
(SPCC) Rule—Compliance Date Amendment 
for Farms’’ (FRL No. 9494–8) received during 
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 22, 
2011; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–4137. A communication from the Director 
of Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘List of 
Approved Spent Fuel Storage Casks: 
MAGNASTOR System, Revision 2’’ (RIN3150– 
AI91) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 29, 2011; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–4138. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Proposed Method of 
Accounting for OID on a Pool of Credit Card 
Receivables’’ (Notice 2011–99) received in the 
Office of the President of the Senate on No


vember 30, 2011; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–4139. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Examination of returns 
and claims for refund, credit, or abatement; 
determination of correct tax liability’’ 
(Rev. Proc. 2011–58) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 30, 
2011; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–4140. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Examination of returns 
and claims for refund, credit, or abatement; 
determination of correct tax liability’’ 
(Rev. Proc. 2011–57) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 28, 
2011; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–4141. A communication from the Federal 
Register Liaison Officer, Alcohol and 
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval 
of Grape Variety Names for American 
Wines’’ (RIN1513–AA42) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
30, 2011; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–4142. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs, 
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant 
to the Arms Export Control Act, the certification 
of a proposed technical assistance 
agreement to include the export of defense 
articles, including, technical data, and defense 
services to support the Proton integration 
and launch of the Inmarsat 5 Series F1, 
F2, and F3 Commercial Communication Satellites 
from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in 
Kazakhstan in the amount of $50,000,000 or 
more; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–4143. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs, 
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant 
to the Arms Export Control Act, the certification 
of a proposed amendment to a technical 
assistance agreement to include the export 
of defense articles, including, technical 
data, and defense services to the Secretaria 
de la Defensa Nacional, for a radar system 
for the Surveillance and Control of the Mexican 
Airspace program the amount of 
$50,000,000 or more; to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations. 

EC–4144. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs, 
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant 
to the Arms Export Control Act, the certification 
of a proposed amendment to a technical 
assistance agreement to include the export 
of defense articles, including, technical 
data, and defense services to the United 
Kingdom and France for the delivery and 
support of fourteen Mk6 Chinook helicopters 
to the United Kingdom Ministry of Defense 
in the amount of $100,000,000 or more; to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–4145. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs, 
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant 
to the Arms Export Control Act, the certification 
of a proposed manufacturing license 
agreement to include the export of defense 
articles, including, technical data, and defense 
services to the United Kingdom for the 
design, development and manufacture of upgrades 
to the Brimstone Weapon System for 
several United States allies in Europe in the 
amount of $50,000,000 or more; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–4146. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs, 
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant 
to the Arms Export Control Act, the certifi


cation of a proposed amendment to a manufacturing 
license agreement to include the 
export of defense articles, including, technical 
data, and defense services to the United 
Kingdom and India for the manufacturing 
and maintenance of AC and DC electrical 
power generating systems, motors, motor 
drive systems, and system control units utilized 
on military aircraft and ground vehicles 
for users in 63 countries in the amount 
of $50,000,000 or more; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 

EC–4147. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs, 
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant 
to the Arms Export Control Act, the certification 
of a proposed amendment to a manufacturing 
license agreement to include the 
export of defense articles, including, technical 
data, and defense services for the manufacture 
and sales of AN/APG–63(V)1 radar 
system retrofit kits for sale and delivery to 
the Japanese Air Self Defense Force in the 
amount of $100,000,000 or more; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–4148. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations and Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Animal Food Labeling; Declaration 
of Certifiable Color Additives’’ 
(Docket No. FDA–2009–N–0025) received in the 
Office of the President of the Senate on November 
30, 2011; to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–4149. A communication from the Secretary 
of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Race to 
the Top Fund Phase 3’’ (RIN1894–AA01) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 28, 2011; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–4150. A communication from the Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer, Farm Credit 
Administration, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the Administration’s Semiannual Report 
of the Inspector General and the Semiannual 
Management Report on the Status of 
Audits for the period from April 1, 2011 
through September 30, 2011; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–4151. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
Commission’s fiscal year 2011 Agency Financial 
Report; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4152. A communication from the Budget 
Officer, Office of the Treasurer, National 
Gallery of Art, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the financial statements for the National 
Gallery of Art for the year ended September 
30, 2011 and the auditor’s report 
thereon; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4153. A communication from the Secretary 
of Labor, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the Semiannual Report of the Office of 
Inspector General of the Department of 
Labor for the period from April 1, 2011 
through September 30, 2011; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–4154. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Personnel Management, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Semiannual 
Report of the Inspector General for the period 
from April 1, 2011 through September 30, 
2011; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4155. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 19–228 ‘‘Jubilee Housing Residential 
Rental Project Real Property Tax Exemption 
Clarification Temporary Act of 


S8148 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

2011’’; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4156. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 19–234 ‘‘Cooperative Housing Association 
Economic Interest Recordation 
Tax Temporary Amendment Act of 2011’’; to 
the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4157. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 19–235 ‘‘Real Property Tax Appeals 
Commission Establishment Clarification 
Temporary Amendment Act of 2011’’; to 
the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4158. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 19–236 ‘‘Criminal Penalty for Unregistered 
Motorist Repeal Temporary 
Amendment Act of 2011’’; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 


EC–4159. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 19–237 ‘‘The Washington Ballet 
Equitable Real Property Tax Relief Act of 
2011’’; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4160. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 19–238 ‘‘Vault Tax Clarification 
Amendment Act of 2011’’; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 


EC–4161. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Council of the District of Columbia, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
on D.C. Act 19–239 ‘‘Arthur Capper/ 
Carrollsburg Public Improvements Revenue 
Bonds Amendment Act of 2011’’; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–4162. A communication from the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Department of 
Health and Human Service’s Semiannual Report 
of the Inspector General for the period 
from April 1, 2011 through September 30, 2011; 
to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4163. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Personnel Management, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Semi-Annual 
Report of the Inspector General for the period 
from April 1, 2011 through September 30, 
2011 and the Management Response for the 
period ending September 30, 2011; to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–4164. A communication from the Secretary 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the Department of Energy’s Semiannual 
Report of the Inspector General for the period 
from April 1, 2011 to September 30, 2011; 
to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4165. A communication from the Administrator 
of the Agency for International 
Development (USAID), transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the Semi-Annual Report of the 
Inspector General for the period from April 
1, 2011 through September 30, 2011; to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–4166. A communication from the Acting 
Chief Executive Officer, Corporation for National 
and Community Service, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Semi-Annual Report 
of the Inspector General and the Corporation 
for National and Community Service’s 
Report on Final Action for the period 
from April 1, 2011 through September 30, 2011; 

to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–4167. A communication from the Chairman, 
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
Board’s fiscal year 2011 Performance and Accountability 
Report; to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 


EC–4168. A communication from the Chairman, 
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Commission’s 
Performance and Accountability Report 
for fiscal year 2011; to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 


EC–4169. A communication from the Federal 
Register Liaison Officer, Alcohol and 
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Expansions 
of the Russian River Valley and Northern 
Sonoma Viticultural Areas’’ (RIN1513– 
AB57) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 30, 2011; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 

EC–4170. A communication from the Federal 
Register Liaison Officer, Alcohol and 
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establishment 
of the Pine Mountain-Cloverdale Peak 
Viticultural Area’’ (RIN1513–AB4) received in 
the Office of the President of the Senate on 
November 30, 2011; to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 

f 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES 

The following reports of committees 
were submitted: 

By Mr. KERRY, from the Committee on 
Foreign Relations, with an amendment in 
the nature of a substitute and an amendment 
to the title and with an amended preamble: 

S. Res. 227. A resolution calling for the protection 
of the Mekong River Basin and increased 
United States support for delaying 
the construction of mainstream dams along 
the Mekong River. 
By Mr. KERRY, from the Committee on 
Foreign Relations, without amendment and 
with an amended preamble: 

S. Res. 316. A resolution expressing the 
sense of the Senate regarding Tunisia’s 
peaceful Jasmine Revolution. 
By Mr. LEAHY, from the Committee on 
the Judiciary, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute: 

S. 671. A bill to authorize the United States 
Marshals Service to issue administrative 
subpoenas in investigations relating to unregistered 
sex offenders. 
By Mr. LEAHY, from the Committee on 
the Judiciary, without amendment: 

S. 1792. A bill to clarify the authority of 
the United States Marshal Service to assist 
other Federal, State, and local law enforcement 
agencies in the investigation of cases 
involving sex offenders and missing children. 
f 

EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF COMMITTEE 

The following executive reports of 
nominations were submitted: 

By Mr. LEAHY for the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 

Jacqueline H. Nguyen, of California, to be 
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth 
Circuit. 

Gregg Jeffrey Costa, of Texas, to be United 
States District Judge for the Southern District 
of Texas. 

David Campos Guaderrama, of Texas, to be 
United States District Judge for the Western 
District of Texas. 

(Nominations without an asterisk 
were reported with the recommendation 
that they be confirmed.) 

f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Mr. 

TOOMEY, Mr. WARNER, and Mr. 

CRAPO): 

S. 1933. A bill to increase American job creation 
and economic growth by improving access 
to the public capital markets for emerging 
growth companies; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 
By Mr. HELLER: 

S. 1934. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to repeal certain communications 
taxes, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Finance. 
By Mrs. HAGAN (for herself, Ms. COLLINS, 
Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. KIRK, and Mr. 
AKAKA): 

S. 1935. A bill to require the Secretary of 
the Treasury to mint coins in recognition 
and celebration of the 75th anniversary of 
the establishment of the March of Dimes 
Foundation; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 
By Mr. JOHNSON of Wisconsin (for 
himself, Mrs. HUTCHISON, Mr. WICKER, 
Mr. RISCH, Mr. COBURN, Mr. SESSIONS, 
Mr. DEMINT, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. ENZI, Mr. 
CORNYN, Mr. LEE, Mr. PAUL, Mr. BARRASSO, 
Ms. AYOTTE, and Mr. MCCAIN): 

S. 1936. A bill to adopt the seven immediate 
reforms recommended by the National 
Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform 
to reduce spending and make the Federal 
government more efficient; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 
By Mr. BROWN of Ohio (for himself 
and Ms. SNOWE): 

S. 1937. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to extend the nonbusiness 
energy property credit to include the insulation 
component of insulated siding; to the 
Committee on Finance. 
By Ms. SNOWE: 

S. 1938. A bill to amend chapter 6 of title 5, 
United States Code (commonly known as the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act), to ensure complete 
analysis of potential impacts on small 
entities of rules, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and 
Mr. WARNER): 

S. 1939. A bill to amend title 23, United 
States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
Transportation to require that broadband 
conduits be installed as part of certain highway 
construction projects, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 
f 

SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND 
SENATE RESOLUTIONS 

The following concurrent resolutions 
and Senate resolutions were read, and 
referred (or acted upon), as indicated: 

By Mr. RUBIO: 

S. Res. 342. A resolution honoring the life 
and legacy of Laura Pollan; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL: 

S. Con. Res. 33. A concurrent resolution reorganizing 
the need to improve physical access 
to many federally funded facilities for 

December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8149 

all people of the United States, particularly 
people with disabilities; to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 491 

At the request of Mr. PRYOR, the 
name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 491, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to recognize the 
service in the reserve components of 
the Armed Forces of certain persons by 
honoring them with status as veterans 
under law, and for other purposes. 

S. 506 
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the 
name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 506, a bill to amend the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 to address and take action to prevent 
bullying and harassment of students. 
S. 606 
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the 
name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Mr. VITTER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 606, a bill to amend the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to improve 
the priority review voucher incentive 
program relating to tropical 
and rare pediatric diseases. 
S. 672 
At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. HARKIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 672, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend and 
modify the railroad track maintenance 
credit. 
S. 678 
At the request of Mr. KOHL, the name 
of the Senator from California (Mrs. 
FEINSTEIN) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 678, a bill to increase the penalties 
for economic espionage. 
S. 797 
At the request of Ms. MIKULSKI, the 
name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 797, a bill to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide 
more effective remedies to victims of 
discrimination in the payment of 
wages on the basis of sex, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 810 

At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the 
name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 810, a bill to prohibit the conducting 
of invasive research on great 
apes, and for other purposes. 

S. 834 
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the 
names of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. UDALL), the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. MERKLEY) and the Senator from 
Rhode Island (Mr. REED) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 834, a bill to amend the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 to improve 
education and prevention related 
to campus sexual violence, domestic violence, 
dating violence, and stalking. 

S. 881 

At the request of Ms. LANDRIEU, the 
name of the Senator from North Carolina 
(Mr. BURR) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 881, a bill to amend the Consumer 
Credit Protection Act to assure 
meaningful disclosures of the terms of 
rental-purchase agreements, including 
disclosures of all costs to consumers 
under such agreements, to provide substantive 
rights to consumers under 
such agreements, and for other purposes. 


S. 1122 

At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the 
name of the Senator from Louisiana 
(Ms. LANDRIEU) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1122, a bill to amend title 23, 
United States Code, to establish standards 
limiting the amounts of arsenic 
and lead contained in glass beads used 
in pavement markings. 

S. 1214 

At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND, 
the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1214, a bill to amend title 10, 
United States Code, regarding restrictions 
on the use of Department of Defense 
funds and facilities for abortions. 

S. 1358 

At the request of Mr. TESTER, the 
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
BEGICH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1358, a bill to amend the Family and 
Medical Leave Act of 1993 to provide 
leave because of the death of a son or 
daughter. 

S. 1440 

At the request of Mr. BENNET, the 
name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1440, a bill to reduce preterm 
labor and delivery and the risk of pregnancy-
related deaths and complications 
due to pregnancy, and to reduce 
infant mortality caused by prematurity. 


S. 1538 

At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the 
name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1538, a bill to provide for a time-
out on certain regulations, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 1544 

At the request of Mr. TESTER, the 
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
CRAPO) and the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1544, a bill to amend 
the Securities Act of 1933 to require the 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
to exempt a certain class of securities 
from such Act. 

S. 1578 

At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the 
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
HARKIN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1578, a bill to amend the Safe Drinking 
Water Act with respect to consumer 
confidence reports by community 

water systems. 
S. 1733 
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the 
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 

HARKIN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1733, a bill to establish the Commission 
on the Review of the Overseas Military 

Facility Structure of the United 
States. 
S. 1738 

At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the 
name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 1738, a bill to rescind the 3.8 percent 
tax on the investment income of the 
American people and to promote job 
creation and small businesses. 
S. 1747 

At the request of Mrs. HAGAN, the 
name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. BROWN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1747, a bill to amend the 
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to 
modify provisions relating to the exemption 
for computer systems analysts, 
computer programmers, software 
engineers, or other similarly skilled 
workers. 

S. 1753 

At the request of Mr. KIRK, the name 
of the Senator from Maryland (Ms. MIKULSKI) 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1753, a bill to require operators of 
Internet websites that provide access 
to international travel services and 
market overseas vacation destinations 
to provide on such websites information 
to consumers regarding the potential 
health and safety risks associated 
with traveling to such vacation destinations, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 1792 

At the request of Mr. LEAHY, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1792, a bill to clarify the authority of 
the United States Marshal Service to 
assist other Federal, State, and local 
law enforcement agencies in the investigation 
of cases involving sex offenders 
and missing children. 

At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE, 
the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a 
cosponsor of S. 1792, supra. 

S. 1798 

At the request of Mr. UDALL of New 
Mexico, the name of the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) was added as 
a cosponsor of S. 1798, a bill to direct 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish 
an open burn pit registry to ensure 
that members of the Armed 
Forces who may have been exposed to 
toxic chemicals and fumes caused by 
open burn pits while deployed to Afghanistan 
or Iraq receive information 
regarding such exposure, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 1816 

At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. HARKIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1816, a bill to amend title 23, 
United States Code, to modify a provision 
relating to minimum penalties for 
repeat offenders for driving while intoxicated 
or driving under the influence. 


S. 1866 
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the 
names of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 


S8150 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

BEGICH) and the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. WICKER) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1866, a bill to provide incentives 
for economic growth, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 1871 

At the request of Mr. BROWN of Massachusetts, 
the name of the Senator 
from Nebraska (Mr. JOHANNS) was 
added as a cosponsor of S. 1871, a bill to 
prohibit commodities and securities 
trading based on nonpublic information 
relating to Congress, to require additional 
reporting by Members and employees 
of Congress of securities transactions, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 1876 

At the request of Mr. BROWN of Ohio, 
the name of the Senator from Iowa 
(Mr. HARKIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1876, a bill to require the establishment 
of a Consumer Price Index for 
Elderly Consumers to compute cost-of-
living increases for Social Security 
benefits under title II of the Social Security 
Act. 

S. 1886 

At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1886, a bill to prevent 
trafficking in counterfeit drugs. 

S. 1894 

At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the 
name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1894, a bill to deter terrorism, 
provide justice for victims, and 
for other purposes. 

S. 1900 

At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1900, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to preserve access 
to urban Medicare-dependent hospitals. 

S. 1903 

At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND, 
the name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. JOHANNS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1903, a bill to prohibit commodities 
and securities trading based 
on nonpublic information relating to 
Congress, to require additional reporting 
by Members and employees of Congress 
of securities transactions, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 1917 

At the request of Mr. CASEY, the 
name of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. JOHNSON) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1917, a bill to create jobs 
by providing payroll tax relief for middle 
class families and businesses, and 
for other purposes. 

S. 1929 

At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL, 
the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. BOXER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1929, a bill to require the 
Secretary of the Treasury to mint 

coins in commemoration of Mark 
Twain. 
S. 1930 

At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the 
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 

RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1930, a bill to prohibit earmarks. 

S. 1932 

At the request of Mr. LUGAR, the 
name of the Senator from New Hampshire 
(Ms. AYOTTE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1932, a bill to require the 
Secretary of State to act on a permit 
for the Keystone XL pipeline. 

AMENDMENT NO. 980 
At the request of Mr. WEBB, the 
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
PORTMAN), the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. THUNE), the Senator from 
Nebraska (Mr. JOHANNS), the Senator 
from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE), the Senator 
from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI) and 
the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. ENZI) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 980 intended to be proposed to 

H.R. 2354, a bill making appropriations 
for energy and water development and 
related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2012, and for other 
purposes. 
AMENDMENT NO. 1024 
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the 
names of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. CASEY) and the Senator 
from Indiana (Mr. COATS) were added as 
cosponsors of amendment No. 1024 intended 
to be proposed to H.R. 2354, a 
bill making appropriations for energy 
and water development and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2012, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1114 
At the request of Mr. BEGICH, the 
name of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1114 proposed to S. 
1867, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1120 
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the 
name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1120 proposed to 

S. 1867, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 
AMENDMENT NO. 1125 
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the 
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. WYDEN) were added as cosponsors 
of amendment No. 1125 proposed to S. 
1867, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1126 

At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the 
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr. 
LEE), the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Oregon 
(Mr. WYDEN) were added as cosponsors 
of amendment No. 1126 proposed to S. 
1867, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1145 

At the request of Mr. TESTER, the 
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
HARKIN) was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 1145 intended to be proposed 
to S. 1867, an original bill to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 
2012 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of 
the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such 
fiscal year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1152 

At the request of Mr. PRYOR, the 
name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1152 proposed to S. 
1867, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1182 

At the request of Mr. SESSIONS, the 
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr. 
WEBB) was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 1182 proposed to S. 
1867, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1202 

At the request of Mr. UDALL of New 
Mexico, the names of the Senator from 
Iowa (Mr. HARKIN), the Senator from 
Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) and the Senator 
from West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) 
were added as cosponsors of amendment 
No. 1202 proposed to S. 1867, an 
original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

At the request of Mr. BINGAMAN, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 1202 proposed to S. 
1867, supra. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1206 
At the request of Mrs. BOXER, the 
name of the Senator from Michigan 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8151 

(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1206 proposed to 

S. 1867, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 
AMENDMENT NO. 1225 

At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the 
name of the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1225 intended to be 
proposed to S. 1867, an original bill to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2012 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of 
the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such 
fiscal year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1257 

At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the 
names of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. MURRAY) and the Senator from 
New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 1257 
proposed to S. 1867, an original bill to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2012 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of 
the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such 
fiscal year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1294 

At the request of Mr. REED, the name 
of the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. 
WHITEHOUSE) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1294 proposed to S. 
1867, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1401 

At the request of Mr. CORKER, the 
name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. LIEBERMAN) was added as a cosponsor 
of amendment No. 1401 intended 
to be proposed to S. 1867, an 
original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1414 

At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the 
names of the Senator from Rhode Island 
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE), the Senator 
from Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN), the Senator 
from Arkansas (Mr. PRYOR), the Senator 
from Minnesota (Mr. FRANKEN), 
the Senator from New Mexico (Mr. 
UDALL), the Senator from Virginia (Mr. 
WARNER), the Senator from Texas (Mr. 
CORNYN), the Senator from Colorado 
(Mr. BENNET), the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mr. WICKER), the Senator from 

Colorado (Mr. UDALL), the Senator 
from California (Mrs. BOXER) and the 
Senator from Missouri (Mrs. MCCASKILL) 
were added as cosponsors of 
amendment No. 1414 proposed to S. 
1867, an original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for 
military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 1414 proposed to S. 
1867, supra. 

At the request of Ms. AYOTTE, her 
name was added as a cosponsor of 
amendment No. 1414 proposed to S. 
1867, supra. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1451 

At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the 
names of the Senator from Arizona 
(Mr. KYL), the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. KIRK) and the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. LIEBERMAN) were added 
as cosponsors of amendment No. 1451 
intended to be proposed to S. 1867, an 
original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

f 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mrs. HAGAN (for herself, Ms. 
COLLINS, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. 
KIRK, and Mr. AKAKA): 

S. 1935. A bill to require the Secretary 
of the Treasury to mint coins in 
recognition and celebration of the 75th 
anniversary of the establishment of the 
March of Dimes Foundation; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 
Mrs. HAGAN. Mr. President, today I 
am proud to introduce the March of 
Dimes Commemorative Coin Act. 

For almost 75 years, the March of 
Dimes has fought to combat and prevent 
diseases that strike our youngest 
children, while also supporting mothers-
to-be and families with infants in 
intensive care. The March of Dimes 
was founded in 1938 by President 
Franklin Roosevelt as the National 
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, at a 
time when polio was on the rise. The 
Foundation established a polio patient 
aid program and funded research for 
vaccines developed by Jonas Salk, MD, 
and Albert Sabin, MD. These vaccines 
effectively ended epidemic polio in the 
United States. 

Today one in 33 babies born in the 
United States is affected by a birth defect, 
and tragically, more than 5,500 infants 
die every year because of a birth 
defect. Moreover, an additional 500,000 
children are diagnosed with developmental 
disabilities each year. 

Almost 13 percent of babies born in 
America are born prematurely—an in


crease of 36 percent since the early 
1980s. In 2003, the March of Dimes took 
on the cause of reducing the number of 
infants who are born prematurely. And 
thanks to the great work of the March 
of Dimes and others, after three decades 
of increase, the pre-term birth 
rate has now dropped for the third year 
in a row. 

You would be hard pressed to find 
someone today who doesn’t have a 
friend, a family member, a neighbor or 
a coworker who’s had a baby born prematurely 
or born with some kind of 
birth defect. A month ago, I had the 
pleasure of meeting the 2011 March of 
Dimes National Ambassador: Lauren 
Fleming, and her parents, Nikki and 
Densel from Marvin, NC. Lauren was 
born three and a half months early and 
weighed just 2 pounds, 1 ounce. She 
spent the first 5 months of her life in 
the intensive care unit, being treated 
for respiratory distress and undergoing 
multiple surgeries. In part, because of 
the research and support provided by 
the March of Dimes, Lauren is now an 
adorable, vivacious 7-year old, and a 
hero to young children and their families 
throughout the country. 

Although some progress has been 
made over the past several decades on 
reducing and preventing birth defects 
and prematurity, we need organizations 
such as the March of Dimes to 
continue to push for more research, 
more innovation and more prevention 
efforts. 

The March of Dimes makes a difference. 
By investing millions of dollars 
to study premature births, birth 
defects, and infant mortality, including 
$5.6 million in North Carolina over the 
past 5 years, the March of Dimes is 
helping to ensure that we can reduce 
these occurrences. 

But we can do more. That is why 
today I am introducing the March of 
Dimes Commemorative Coin Act of 
2011. This bill would mint coins in recognition 
and celebration of the March 
of Dimes’ 75 anniversary in 2014. Proceeds 
from the commemorative coin 
will be used to support the March of 
Dimes’ Prematurity Campaign, an intensive 
multi-year campaign to raise 
awareness among health professionals 
and the general public and find the 
causes of prematurity. 

Not only will the Commemorative 
Coin raise awareness of the March of 
Dimes’ efforts, but it will also help 
raise more funding for their efforts. I 
cannot think of a more appropriate 
way to honor the March of Dimes than 
to mint actual ‘‘dimes’’ celebrating 
their work. 

I want to thank my Republican colleague, 
Senator SUSAN COLLINS, as well 
as Senators SCHUMER, KIRK, and AKAKA 
for joining me in cosponsoring this 
measure. 

I urge my other colleagues to join us 
in supporting this important bill. 

By Ms. SNOWE: 

S. 1938. A bill to amend chapter 6 of 
title 5, United States Code (commonly 

S8152 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

known as the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act), to ensure complete analysis of potential 
impacts on small entities of 
rules, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 

Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I rise 
today to introduce the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act of 2011. 
Originally introduced in the House by 
Representative LAMAR SMITH of Texas, 
this targeted regulatory reform bill 
would amend the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act, RFA, the seminal legislation 
enacted in 1980 that requires Federal 
agencies to consider the cost and 
impact of proposed regulations on 
small businesses if such regulation 
would significantly affect a substantial 
number of small entities. 

As a steadfast proponent for regulatory 
reform, I have been deeply troubled 
by this chamber’s unwillingness to 
act on an issue so critical to our Nation’s 
job creators. In stark contrast, 
our House counterparts are poised to 
pass this legislation, offering relief to 
our Nation’s small business job creators. 
I encourage my colleagues in the 
Senate to seize this opportunity and 
support this legislation. 

If anyone believes this is a solution 
in need of a problem, there is ample 
evidence to the contrary. In fact, an 
October 24 Gallup poll of American 
small business owners revealed that 
the number one problem they face is 
‘‘complying with government regulations.’’ 
What I find increasingly frustrating 
is that although small businesses 
repeatedly express their concerns, 
the Senate continues to sit idly 
by, failing to take serious action! 

At a time when unemployment 
stands at an unacceptable nine percent, 
and small businesses are struggling to 
create jobs, the imperative to focus our 
attention on regulatory reform 
couldn’t be clearer. Unfortunately, 
small businesses, which historically 
create two-thirds of all new jobs, face 
an unequal federal regulatory burden. 
A September 2010, study commissioned 
by the Small Business Administration, 
SBA, Office of Advocacy found that 
small firms with fewer than 20 employees 
bear a disproportionate burden in 
complying with federal regulations. 
They pay an annual regulatory cost of 
$10,585 per employee, which is 36 percent 
higher than the regulatory cost 
facing larger firms. 

This must change, and the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act of 
2011 aims to do just that. This bill reforms 
the flawed rulemaking process to 
ensure that federal agencies consider 
small business impact before a rule is 
promulgated, not after. For example, 
one provision of this legislation would 
expand the small business review panel 
process to apply to all agencies. These 
panels currently only apply to the Environmental 
Protection Agency, EPA, 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, 
OSHA, and, thanks to an 
amendment that I included in the Wall 
Street Reform legislation, the new 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 
CFPB. These panels have worked 
well at EPA and OSHA since 1996. Why 
not apply this stipulation to every Federal 
agency, so small businesses are 
considered at the forefront of the rule-
making process? 

Another provision would require 
agencies to consider foreseeable ‘‘indirect’’ 
economic effects when determining 
whether a rule will have a significant 
impact on a substantial number 
of small businesses. Currently, only 
‘‘direct’’ economic impacts are considered 
in the analysis. The RFA has already 
saved billions for small businesses 
by forcing government regulators 
to address the direct impact of 
proposed rules on small firms. If billions 
of dollars can be saved by filtering 
out overly cumbersome or duplicative 
direct regulatory mandates upon 
small business while improving workplace 
safety and environmental conditions, 
even more can be saved by filtering 
out unnecessary or burdensome 
costs to those small businesses indirectly 
impacted by regulation. 

This type of commonsense reform is 
why the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act enjoys the support of 
more than 150 small business advocacy 
organizations, including the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce and the National 
Federation of Independent Business, 
NFIB. 

President Obama himself has identified 
government regulations as harmful 
to job creation. In a January 18 
Wall Street Journal op-ed, he wrote 
that, ‘‘[s]ometimes, those rules have 
gotten out of balance, placing unreasonable 
burdens on business—burdens 
that have stifled innovation and have 
had a chilling effect on growth and 
jobs.’’ More recently, my friend, former 
Democratic Senator Blanche Lincoln, 
partnered with NFIB President Dan 
Danner to write an open letter to 
President Obama calling for sensible 
regulatory reform. 

Winston Churchill once said, ‘‘If you 
have 10,000 regulations, you destroy all 
respect for the law!’’ And certainly, 
looking at the expanding universe of 
rules waiting on the horizon, and the 
vast labyrinth of existing ones, we 
should ponder how business can dedicate 
any time and resources to their 
principal mission of creating products, 
offering services, innovating and growing. 


Consider that, since President Obama 
took office, his administration has approved 
613 Federal rules, 129 of which 
have an economic impact topping $100 
million. In fact, the President’s health 
reform legislation alone mandates 41 
separate rulemakings, at least 100 additional 
regulatory guidance documents, 
and 129 reports, according to the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce. How can our 
Nation’s small businesses compete in a 
global economy when Washington, DC 
agencies continue to saddle them with 
overwhelming regulatory burdens year 
after year? How can entrepreneurs 
grow their companies when the regu


latory environment dissuades them 
from investing in new equipment or 
hiring additional workers? 

While members of both parties are 
now calling for small business regulatory 
reform, the United States Senate 
remains regrettably disengaged. I 
urge my colleagues to change course 
and put the interest of small business, 
our Nation’s economic engines, ahead 
of petty politics at a time when more 
than 14 million Americans are unemployed 
and have been so for the longest 
time since World War II. 

The days of working together to craft 
innovative solutions for the good of the 
American people do not have to be 
over. It is well beyond time for this 
body to pass small business regulatory 
reform and I urge my colleagues to 
support this critical legislation. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the text of the bill and a letter 
of support be printed in the 
RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

S. 1938 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as 
the ‘‘Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011’’. 
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
of this Act is as follows: 
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. 
Sec. 2. Clarification and expansion of rules 

covered by the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act. 
Sec. 3. Expansion of report of regulatory 
agenda. 
Sec. 4. Requirements providing for more detailed 
analyses. 

Sec. 5. Repeal of waiver and delay authority; 
Additional powers of the Chief 
Counsel for Advocacy. 

Sec. 6. Procedures for gathering comments. 
Sec. 7. Periodic review of rules. 
Sec. 8. Judicial review of compliance with 

the requirements of the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act available 
after publication of the final 
rule. 

Sec. 9. Jurisdiction of court of appeals over 
rules implementing the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act. 

Sec. 10. Clerical amendments. 
Sec. 11. Agency preparation of guides. 

SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION AND EXPANSION OF 
RULES COVERED BY THE REGULATORY 
FLEXIBILITY ACT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (2) of section 
601 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
to read as follows: 
‘‘(2) RULE.—The term ‘rule’ has the meaning 
given such term in section 551(4) of this 
title, except that such term does not include 
a rule of particular (and not general) applicability 
relating to rates, wages, corporate 
or financial structures or reorganizations 
thereof, prices, facilities, appliances, services, 
or allowances therefor or to valuations, 
costs or accounting, or practices relating to 
such rates, wages, structures, prices, appliances, 
services, or allowances.’’. 

(b) INCLUSION OF RULES WITH INDIRECT EFFECTS.—
Section 601 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph: 
‘‘(9) ECONOMIC IMPACT.—The term ‘economic 
impact’ means, with respect to a proposed 
or final rule— 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8153 

‘‘(A) any direct economic effect on small 
entities of such rule; and 

‘‘(B) any indirect economic effect on small 
entities that is reasonably foreseeable and 
results from such rule (without regard to 
whether small entities will be directly regulated 
by the rule).’’. 

(c) INCLUSION OF RULES WITH BENEFICIAL 
EFFECTS.— 
(1) INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
Subsection (c) of section 603 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by striking 
the first sentence and inserting ‘‘Each initial 
regulatory flexibility analysis shall also contain 
a detailed description of alternatives to 
the proposed rule which minimize any adverse 
significant economic impact or maximize 
any beneficial significant economic impact 
on small entities.’’. 
(2) FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
Section 604(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended, in the first paragraph designated 
as paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘minimize 
the significant economic impact’’ and 
inserting ‘‘minimize the adverse significant 
economic impact or maximize the beneficial 
significant economic impact’’. 
(d) INCLUSION OF RULES AFFECTING TRIBAL 
ORGANIZATIONS.—Paragraph (5) of section 601 
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ‘‘or special districts’’ and inserting 
‘‘special districts, or tribal organizations (as 
defined in section 4(l) of the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act 
(25 U.S.C. 450b(l)))’’. 
(e) INCLUSION OF LAND MANAGEMENT PLANS 
AND FORMAL RULE MAKING.— 
(1) INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
Subsection (a) of section 603 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended in the first 
sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘or’’ after ‘‘proposed rule,’’; 
and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘or publishes a revision or 
amendment to a land management plan,’’ 
after ‘‘United States,’’. 
(2) FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
Subsection (a) of section 604 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended, in the first 
sentence— 
(A) by striking ‘‘or’’ after ‘‘proposed rule-
making,’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘or adopts a revision or 
amendment to a land management plan,’’ 
after ‘‘section 603(a),’’. 
(3) LAND MANAGEMENT PLAN DEFINED.—Section 
601 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(10) LAND MANAGEMENT PLAN.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘land management 
plan’ means— 

‘‘(i) any plan developed by the Secretary of 
Agriculture under section 6 of the Forest and 
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning 
Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604); and 

‘‘(ii) any plan developed by the Secretary 
of Interior under section 202 of the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1712). 

‘‘(B) REVISION.—The term ‘revision’, when 
used with respect to a land management 
plan, means any change to a land management 
plan which— 

‘‘(i) in the case of a plan described in subparagraph 
(A)(i), is made under section 6(f)(5) 
of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
1604(f)(5)); or 

‘‘(ii) in the case of a plan described in subparagraph 
(A)(ii), is made under section 
1610.5–6 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations 
(or any successor regulation). 

‘‘(C) AMENDMENT.—The term ‘amendment’, 
when used with respect to a land management 
plan, means any change to a land management 
plan which— 

‘‘(i) in the case of a plan described in subparagraph 
(A)(i), is made under section 6(f)(4) 
of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources 
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 
1604(f)(4)) and with respect to which the Secretary 
of Agriculture prepares a statement 
described in section 102(2)(C) of the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4332(2)(C)); or 

‘‘(ii) in the case of a plan described in subparagraph 
(A)(ii), is made under section 
1610.5–5 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations 
(or any successor regulation) and with 
respect to which the Secretary of the Interior 
prepares a statement described in section 
102(2)(C) of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)).’’. 

(f) INCLUSION OF CERTAIN INTERPRETIVE 
RULES INVOLVING THE INTERNAL REVENUE 
LAWS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section 
603 of title 5, United States Code, is amended 
by striking the period at the end and inserting 
‘‘or a recordkeeping requirement, and 
without regard to whether such requirement 
is imposed by statute or regulation.’’. 
(2) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—Paragraph 
(7) of section 601 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(7) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—The 
term ‘collection of information’ has the 
meaning given such term in section 3502(3) of 
title 44.’’. 

(3) RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENT.—Paragraph 
(8) of section 601 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(8) RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENT.—The 
term ‘recordkeeping requirement’ has the 
meaning given such term in section 3502(13) 
of title 44.’’. 

(g) DEFINITION OF SMALL ORGANIZATION.— 
Paragraph (4) of section 601 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(4) SMALL ORGANIZATION.— 

‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘small organization’ 
means any not-for-profit enterprise 
that, as of the issuance of the notice of proposed 
rulemaking— 

‘‘(i) in the case of an enterprise which is 
described by a classification code of the 
North American Industrial Classification 
System, does not exceed the size standard established 
by the Administrator of the Small 
Business Administration pursuant to section 
3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632) for 
small business concerns described by such 
classification code; and 

‘‘(ii) in the case of any other enterprise, 
has a net worth that does not exceed 
$7,000,000 and has not more than 500 employees. 


‘‘(B) LOCAL LABOR ORGANIZATIONS.—In the 
case of any local labor organization, subparagraph 
(A) shall be applied without regard 
to any national or international organization 
of which such local labor organization 
is a part. 

‘‘(C) AGENCY DEFINITIONS.—Subparagraphs 

(A) and (B) shall not apply to the extent that 
an agency, after consultation with the Office 
of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration 
and after opportunity for public comment, 
establishes one or more definitions for 
such term which are appropriate to the activities 
of the agency and publishes such 
definitions in the Federal Register.’’. 
SEC. 3. EXPANSION OF REPORT OF REGULATORY 
AGENDA. 

Section 602 of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘, and’’ at 
the end and inserting a semicolon; 
(B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
(4); and 
(C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following: 
‘‘(3) a brief description of the sector of the 
North American Industrial Classification 
System that is primarily affected by any 
rule which the agency expects to propose or 
promulgate which is likely to have a significant 
economic impact on a substantial number 
of small entities; and’’; and 

(2) in subsection (c), to read as follows: 
‘‘(c) Not later than 3 days after the date on 
which an agency publishes a regulatory flexibility 
agenda in the Federal Register under 
subsection (a), the agency shall prominently 
display a plain language summary of the information 
contained in the regulatory flexibility 
agenda on the website of the agency. 
The Office of Advocacy of the Small Business 
Administration shall compile and prominently 
display plain language summaries of 
each regulatory flexibility agenda published 
under subsection (a) on the website of the Office 
of Advocacy, not later than 3 days after 
the date on which the agency publishes the 
regulatory flexibility agenda the Federal 
Register.’’. 

SEC. 4. REQUIREMENTS PROVIDING FOR MORE 
DETAILED ANALYSES. 

(a) INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.—
Subsection (b) of section 603 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(b) Each initial regulatory flexibility 
analysis required under this section shall 
contain a detailed statement— 

‘‘(1) describing the reasons why action by 
the agency is being considered; 

‘‘(2) describing the objectives of, and legal 
basis for, the proposed rule; 

‘‘(3) estimating the number and type of 
small entities to which the proposed rule 
will apply; 

‘‘(4) describing the projected reporting, 
recordkeeping, and other compliance requirements 
of the proposed rule, including 
an estimate of the classes of small entities 
which will be subject to the requirement and 
the type of professional skills necessary for 
preparation of the report and record; 

‘‘(5) describing all relevant Federal rules 
which may duplicate, overlap, or conflict 
with the proposed rule, or the reasons why 
such a description could not be provided; 

‘‘(6) estimating the additional cumulative 
economic impact of the proposed rule on 
small entities beyond that already imposed 
on the class of small entities by the agency 
or why such an estimate is not available; and 

‘‘(7) describing any disproportionate economic 
impact on small entities or a specific 
class of small entities.’’. 

(b) FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 604(a) of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended— 
(A) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘an explanation’’ 
and inserting ‘‘a detailed explanation’’; 
(B) in each of paragraphs (4), (5), and the 
first paragraph designated as paragraph (6), 
by inserting ‘‘detailed’’ before ‘‘description’’; 
and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(7) a description any disproportionate 
economic impact on small entities or a specific 
class of small entities.’’. 

(2) INCLUSION OF RESPONSE TO COMMENTS ON 
CERTIFICATION OF PROPOSED RULE.—Paragraph 
(2) of section 604(a) of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘(or 
certification of the proposed rule under section 
605(b))’’ after ‘‘initial regulatory flexibility 
analysis’’. 
(3) PUBLICATION OF ANALYSIS ON WEBSITE.— 
Subsection (b) of section 604 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(b) The agency shall make copies of the 
final regulatory flexibility analysis available 
to the public, including by making the entire 
analysis available on the website of the 


S8154 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

agency, and shall publish in the Federal Register 
the final regulatory flexibility analysis, 
or a summary thereof which includes the 
telephone number, mailing address, and link 
to the website where the complete analysis 
may be obtained.’’. 

(c) CROSS-REFERENCES TO OTHER ANALYSES.—
Subsection (a) of section 605 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(a) A Federal agency shall be treated as 
satisfying any requirement regarding the 
content of an agenda or regulatory flexibility 
analysis under section 602, 603, or 604, 
if such agency provides in such agenda or 
analysis a cross-reference to the specific portion 
of another agenda or analysis which is 
required by any other law and which satisfies 
such requirement.’’. 

(d) CERTIFICATIONS.—Subsection (b) of section 
605 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended, in the second sentence, by striking 
‘‘statement providing the factual’’ and inserting 
‘‘detailed statement providing the 
factual and legal’’. 
(e) QUANTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—Section 
607 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘§ 607. Quantification requirements 

‘‘In complying with sections 603 and 604, an 
agency shall provide— 

‘‘(1) a quantifiable or numerical description 
of the effects of the proposed or final 
rule and alternatives to the proposed or final 
rule; or 

‘‘(2) a more general descriptive statement 
and a detailed statement explaining why 
quantification is not practicable or reliable.’’. 
SEC. 5. REPEAL OF WAIVER AND DELAY AUTHOR


ITY; ADDITIONAL POWERS OF THE 

CHIEF COUNSEL FOR ADVOCACY. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 608 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows: 
‘‘§ 608. Additional powers of Chief Counsel for 
Advocacy 

‘‘(a)(1) Not later than 270 days after the 
date of the enactment of the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act of 2011, the 
Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small 
Business Administration shall, after opportunity 
for notice and comment under section 
553, issue rules governing agency compliance 
with this chapter. The Chief Counsel may 
modify or amend such rules after notice and 
comment under section 553. This chapter 
(other than this subsection) shall not apply 
with respect to the issuance, modification, 
or amendment of rules under this paragraph. 

‘‘(2) An agency shall not issue rules which 
supplement the rules issued under subsection 

(a) unless such agency has first consulted 
with the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the 
Small Business Administration to ensure 
that such supplemental rules comply with 
this chapter and the rules issued under paragraph 
(1). 
‘‘(b) Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the 
Small Business Administration may intervene 
in any agency adjudication (unless such 
agency is authorized to impose a fine or penalty 
under such adjudication), and may inform 
the agency of the impact that any decision 
on the record may have on small entities. 
The Chief Counsel shall not initiate an 
appeal with respect to any adjudication in 
which the Chief Counsel intervenes under 
this subsection. 

‘‘(c) The Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the 
Small Business Administration may file 
comments in response to any agency notice 
requesting comment, regardless of whether 
the agency is required to file a general notice 
of proposed rulemaking under section 
553.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
611(a) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘608(b),’’; 
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘608(b),’’; 
and 
(3) in paragraph (3)— 
(A) by striking subparagraph (B); and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(3)(A) A small entity’’ and 
inserting the following: 
‘‘(3) A small entity’’. 

SEC. 6. PROCEDURES FOR GATHERING COMMENTS. 


Section 609 of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended by striking subsection (b) and all 
that follows through the end of the section 
and inserting the following: 

‘‘(b)(1) Prior to publication of any proposed 
rule described in subsection (e), the agency 
making such rule shall notify the Chief 
Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business 
Administration and provide the Chief Counsel 
for Advocacy with— 

‘‘(A) all materials prepared or utilized by 
the agency in making the proposed rule, including 
the draft of the proposed rule, except 
as provided in paragraph (2); and 

‘‘(B) information on the potential adverse 
and beneficial economic impacts of the proposed 
rule on small entities and the type of 
small entities that might be affected. 

‘‘(2) An agency may provide a summary of 
any draft if the rule— 

‘‘(A) relates to the internal revenue laws of 
the United States; or 

‘‘(B) is proposed by an independent regulatory 
agency (as defined in section 3502(5) of 
title 44). 

‘‘(c) Not later than 15 days after the receipt 
of materials and information under 
subsection (b), the Chief Counsel for Advocacy 
of the Small Business Administration 
shall— 

‘‘(1) identify small entities or representatives 
of small entities or a combination of 
both for the purpose of obtaining advice, 
input, and recommendations from those persons 
about the potential economic impacts 
of the proposed rule and the compliance of 
the agency with section 603; and 

‘‘(2) convene a review panel consisting of 
an employee from the Office of Advocacy of 
the Small Business Administration, an employee 
from the agency making the rule, and 
in the case of an agency other than an independent 
regulatory agency (as defined in section 
3502(5) of title 44), an employee from the 
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs 
of the Office of Management and Budget to 
review the materials and information provided 
to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of 
the Small Business Administration under 
subsection (b). 

‘‘(d)(1) Not later than 60 days after the review 
panel described in subsection (c)(2) is 
convened, the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of 
the Small Business Administration shall, 
after consultation with the members of such 
panel, submit a report to the agency and, in 
the case of an agency other than an independent 
regulatory agency (as defined in section 
3502(5) of title 44), the Office of Information 
and Regulatory Affairs of the Office of 
Management and Budget. 

‘‘(2) Such report shall include an assessment 
of the economic impact of the proposed 
rule on small entities, including an assessment 
of the proposed rule’s impact on the 
cost that small entities pay for energy, and 
a discussion of any alternatives that will 
minimize adverse significant economic impacts 
or maximize beneficial significant economic 
impacts on small entities. 

‘‘(3) Such report shall become part of the 
rulemaking record. In the publication of the 
proposed rule, the agency shall explain what 
actions, if any, the agency took in response 
to such report. 

‘‘(e) A proposed rule is described by this 
subsection if the Administrator of the Office 
of Information and Regulatory Affairs of the 
Office of Management and Budget, the head 
of the agency (or the delegatee of the head of 
the agency), or an independent regulatory 
agency determines that the proposed rule is 
likely to result in— 

‘‘(1) an annual effect on the economy of 
$100,000,000 or more; 

‘‘(2) a major increase in costs or prices for 
consumers, individual industries, Federal, 
State, or local governments, tribal organizations, 
or geographic regions; 

‘‘(3) significant adverse effects on competition, 
employment, investment, productivity, 
innovation, or on the ability of United 
States-based enterprises to compete with 
foreign-based enterprises in domestic and export 
markets; or 

‘‘(4) a significant economic impact on a 
substantial number of small entities. 

‘‘(f) Upon application by the agency, the 
Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small 
Business Administration may waive the requirements 
of subsections (b) through (e) if 
the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small 
Business Administration determines that 
compliance with the requirements of such 
subsections are impracticable, unnecessary, 
or contrary to the public interest.’’. 
SEC. 7. PERIODIC REVIEW OF RULES. 

Section 610 of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows: 

‘‘§ 610. Periodic review of rules 

‘‘(a) Not later than 180 days after the enactment 
of the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements 
Act of 2011, each agency shall 
publish in the Federal Register and make 
available on the website of the agency a plan 
for the periodic review of rules issued by the 
agency which the head of the agency determines 
have a significant economic impact on 
a substantial number of small entities. Such 
determination shall be made without regard 
to whether the agency performed an analysis 
under section 604. The purpose of the review 
shall be to determine whether such rules 
should be continued without change, or 
should be amended or rescinded, consistent 
with the stated objectives of applicable statutes, 
to minimize any adverse significant 
economic impacts or maximize any beneficial 
significant economic impacts on a substantial 
number of small entities. Such plan 
may be amended by the agency at any time 
by publishing the revision in the Federal 
Register and subsequently making the 
amended plan available on the website of the 
agency. 

‘‘(b) The plan shall provide for the review 
of all such agency rules existing on the date 
of the enactment of the Regulatory Flexibility 
Improvements Act of 2011 within 10 
years of the date of publication of the plan in 
the Federal Register and for review of rules 
adopted after the date of enactment of the 
Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 
2011 within 10 years after the publication of 
the final rule in the Federal Register. If the 
head of the agency determines that completion 
of the review of existing rules is not feasible 
by the established date, the head of the 
agency shall so certify in a statement published 
in the Federal Register and may extend 
the review for not longer than 2 years 
after publication of notice of extension in 
the Federal Register. Such certification and 
notice shall be sent to the Chief Counsel for 
Advocacy of the Small Business Administration 
and the Congress. 

‘‘(c) The plan shall include a section that 
details how an agency will conduct outreach 
to and meaningfully include small entities 
for the purposes of carrying out this section. 
The agency shall include in this section a 
plan for how the agency will contact small 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8155 

entities and gather their input on existing 
agency rules. 

‘‘(d) Each agency shall annually submit a 
report regarding the results of its review 
pursuant to such plan to the Congress, the 
Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small 
Business Administration, and, in the case of 
agencies other than independent regulatory 
agencies (as defined in section 3502(5) of title 

44) to the Administrator of the Office of Information 
and Regulatory Affairs of the Office 
of Management and Budget. Such report 
shall include the identification of any rule 
with respect to which the head of the agency 
made a determination described in paragraph 
(5) or (6) of subsection (e) and a detailed 
explanation of the reasons for such determination. 
‘‘(e) In reviewing a rule pursuant to subsections 
(a) through (d), the agency shall 
amend or rescind the rule to minimize any 
adverse significant economic impact on a 
substantial number of small entities or disproportionate 
economic impact on a specific 
class of small entities, or maximize any beneficial 
significant economic impact of the 
rule on a substantial number of small entities 
to the greatest extent possible, consistent 
with the stated objectives of applicable 
statutes. In amending or rescinding the 
rule, the agency shall consider the following 
factors: 

‘‘(1) The continued need for the rule. 

‘‘(2) The nature of complaints received by 
the agency from small entities concerning 
the rule. 

‘‘(3) Comments by the Regulatory Enforcement 
Ombudsman and the Chief Counsel for 
Advocacy of the Small Business Administration. 


‘‘(4) The complexity of the rule. 

‘‘(5) The extent to which the rule overlaps, 
duplicates, or conflicts with other Federal 
rules and, unless the head of the agency determines 
it to be infeasible, State, territorial, 
and local rules. 

‘‘(6) The contribution of the rule to the cumulative 
economic impact of all Federal 
rules on the class of small entities affected 
by the rule, unless the head of the agency determines 
that such calculations cannot be 
made and reports that determination in the 
annual report required under subsection (d). 

‘‘(7) The length of time since the rule has 
been evaluated or the degree to which technology, 
economic conditions, or other factors 
have changed in the area affected by the 
rule. 

‘‘(f) The agency shall publish in the Federal 
Register and on the website of the agency 
a list of rules to be reviewed pursuant to 
such plan. Such publication shall include a 
brief description of the rule, the reason why 
the agency determined that the rule has a 
significant economic impact on a substantial 
number of small entities (without regard to 
whether it had prepared a final regulatory 
flexibility analysis for the rule), and request 
comments from the public, the Chief Counsel 
for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration, 
and the Regulatory Enforcement 
Ombudsman concerning the enforcement of 
the rule.’’. 

SEC. 8. JUDICIAL REVIEW OF COMPLIANCE WITH 
THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE REGULATORY 
FLEXIBILITY ACT AVAILABLE 
AFTER PUBLICATION OF THE 
FINAL RULE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section 
611(a) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ‘‘final agency action’’ 
and inserting ‘‘such rule’’. 
(b) JURISDICTION.—Paragraph (2) of section 
611(a) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ‘‘(or which would have 
such jurisdiction if publication of the final 
rule constituted final agency action)’’ after 
‘‘provision of law,’’. 
(c) TIME FOR BRINGING ACTION.—Paragraph 
(3) of section 611(a) of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended— 
(1) by striking ‘‘final agency action’’ and 
inserting ‘‘publication of the final rule’’; and 
(2) by inserting ‘‘, in the case of a rule for 
which the date of final agency action is the 
same date as the publication of the final 
rule,’’ after ‘‘except that’’. 
(d) INTERVENTION BY CHIEF COUNSEL FOR 
ADVOCACY.—Subsection (b) of section 612 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
before the first period ‘‘or agency 
compliance with section 601, 603, 604, 605(b), 
609, or 610’’. 
SEC. 9. JURISDICTION OF COURT OF APPEALS 
OVER RULES IMPLEMENTING THE 
REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2342 of title 28, 
United States Code, is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘and’’ at 
the end; 
(2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following 
new paragraph: 
‘‘(8) all final rules under section 608(a) of 
title 5.’’. 

(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Paragraph 
(3) of section 2341 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended— 
(1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph: 
‘‘(F) the Office of Advocacy of the Small 
Business Administration, when the final rule 
is under section 608(a) of title 5.’’. 

(c) AUTHORIZATION TO INTERVENE AND COMMENT 
ON AGENCY COMPLIANCE WITH ADMINISTRATIVE 
PROCEDURE.—Subsection (b) of section 
612 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ‘‘chapter 5, and chapter 
7,’’ after ‘‘this chapter,’’. 
SEC. 10. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS. 


(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 601 of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1)— 
(A) by striking the semicolon at the end 
and inserting a period; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(1) the term’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(1) AGENCY.—The term’’; 

(2) in paragraph (3)— 
(A) by striking the semicolon at the end 
and inserting a period; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(3) the term’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(3) SMALL BUSINESS.—The term’’; 

(3) in paragraph (5)— 
(A) by striking the semicolon at the end 
and inserting a period; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(5) the term’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(5) SMALL GOVERNMENTAL JURISDICTION.— 
The term’’; and 

(4) in paragraph (6)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a period; 
and 
(B) by striking ‘‘(6) the term’’ and inserting 
the following: 
‘‘(6) SMALL ENTITY.—The term’’. 

(b) SECTION 605.—The heading of section 605 
of title 5, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘§ 605. Incorporations by reference and certifications’’. 


(c) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sections 
for chapter 6 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended— 
(1) by striking the item relating to section 
605 and inserting the following new item: 
‘‘605. Incorporations by reference and certifications.’’; 


(2) by striking the item relating to section 
607 and inserting the following new item: 
‘‘607. Quantification requirements.’’; and 

(3) by striking the item relating to section 
608 and inserting the following: 
‘‘608. Additional powers of Chief Counsel for 
Advocacy.’’. 

(d) OTHER AMENDMENTS.—Chapter 6 of title 
5, United States Code, is amended— 
(1) in section 603, by striking subsection 
(d); and 
(2) in section 604(a) by striking the second 
paragraph designated as paragraph (6). 
SEC. 11. AGENCY PREPARATION OF GUIDES. 

Section 212(a)(5) the Small Business Regulatory 
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 (5 

U.S.C. 601 note) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(5) AGENCY PREPARATION OF GUIDES.—The 
agency shall, in its sole discretion, taking 
into account the subject matter of the rule 
and the language of relevant statutes, ensure 
that the guide is written using sufficiently 
plain language likely to be understood by affected 
small entities. Agencies may prepare 
separate guides covering groups or classes of 
similarly affected small entities and may cooperate 
with associations of small entities to 
distribute such guides. In developing guides, 
agencies shall solicit input from affected 
small entities or associations of affected 
small entities. An agency may prepare 
guides and apply this section with respect to 
a rule or a group of related rules.’’. 

SEPTEMBER 21, 2011. 

Re Business Letter on H.R. 527, the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act of 
2011 

MEMBERS OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: 
We are writing to express our 
support for H.R. 527, the Regulatory Flexibility 
Improvements Act of 2011, and to ask 
you to cosponsor this legislation, if you have 
not done so already. The legislation improves 
the regulatory process by strengthening 
agency analysis of a rule’s impact on 
small businesses. 

Small businesses are the backbone of our 
nation’s economy, and their ability to operate 
efficiently and free of unnecessary regulatory 
burdens is critical for our country’s 
economic recovery. Research from a 2010 
study released by the Small Business Administration 
(SBA) Office of Advocacy illustrates 
that the small business community is 
disproportionately affected by burdensome 
federal regulations. This legislation addresses 
that small business challenge directly. 

H.R. 527 gives the SBA Office of Advocacy 
additional authorities and requires the office 
to establish standards for conducting a ‘‘regulatory 
flexibility analysis’’ during the rule-
making process. It improves transparency 
and ensures that agencies thoughtfully consider 
the impact of regulations on small 
businesses. 
The legislation would also improve the accuracy 
of benefit-cost analysis by requiring 
agencies to consider the indirect impact of 
regulations on small business. 

Finally, the legislation’s provisions on 
periodic review of rules are in line with 
President Obama’s Executive Order 13563, 
which requires agencies to conduct a retrospective 
analysis of existing rules to identify 
and modify rules in need of reform. 

The legislation strengthens the regulatory 
process and builds upon the intent of Congress 
when the Regulatory Flexibility Act 
was originally enacted in 1980. 


S8156 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

Thank you for your support of small business 
and we urge you to cosponsor the Regulatory 
Flexibility Improvements Act of 2011, 
H.R. 527. 

Sincerely, 

Alabama Restaurant Association; American 
Architectural Manufacturers Association; 
American Beverage Association; American 
Coatings Association; American Composites 
Manufacturers Association; American 
Council of Engineering Companies; 
American Farm Bureau Federation; American 
Fiber Manufacturers Association; 
American Foundry Society; American Home 
Furnishings Alliance; American Hotel & 
Lodging Association; American Institute for 
International Steel; American Nursery and 
Landscape Association; American 
Sportfishing Association; American Trucking 
Associations; AR State Chamber of Commerce/
Associated Industries of AR; Arizona 
Nursery Association; Arkansas Hospitality 
Association; Associated Builders & Contractors, 
Inc.; Associated General Contractors of 
America; Associated Industries of Massachusetts; 
Association For Hose and Accessories 
Distribution; Association of Washington 
Business Brick Industry Association; Business 
Council of Alabama; Business Council of 
New York State; California Manufacturers & 
Technology Association; California Restaurant 
Association; Carpet and Rug Institute; 
Colorado Association of Commerce & 
Industry; Colorado Restaurant Association; 
Connecticut Restaurant Association; Edison 
Electric Institute; European-American Business 
Council; Florida Restaurant & Lodging 
Association; Food Marketing Institute; 
Forging Industry Association; Georgia Restaurant 
Association; Golf Course Superintendents 
Association of America; Greeting 
Card Association; Hearth, Patio & Barbecue 
Association; Idaho Lodging & Restaurant Association; 
Idaho Retailers Association; Illinois 
Manufacturers’ Association; Illinois Retail 
Merchants Association; Independent 
Electrical Contractors, Inc.; Independent Lubricant 
Manufacturers Association; Indiana 
Chamber of Commerce; Indiana Hotel & 
Lodging Association; Indiana Manufacturers 
Association; Industrial Fasteners Institute; 
Industrial Minerals Association—North 
America; Interlocking Concrete Pavement 
Institute; International Council of Shopping 
Centers; International Sign Association; 
Iowa Restaurant Association; IPC—Association 
Connecting Electronics Industries; Kansas 
Restaurant & Hospitality Association; 
Kentucky Restaurant Association; Kentucky 
Retail Federation; Kitchen Cabinet Manufacturers 
Association; Louisiana Association of 
Business and Industry; Louisiana Restaurant 
Association; Louisiana Retailers Association; 
Maine Merchants Association; Maine 
Restaurant Association; Manufacturers Association 
of Florida; Maryland Retailers Association; 
Maryland Retailers Association; 
Massachusetts Restaurant Association; 
Michigan Restaurant Association; Minnesota 
Restaurant Association; Minnesota Retailers 
Association; Mississippi Hospitality and Restaurant 
Association; Missouri Association of 
Manufacturers; Montana Chamber of Commerce; 
Montana Restaurant Association; 
Montana Retail Association; Motor and 
Equipment Manufacturers Association; National 
Association for the Self-Employed; 
National Association of Convenience Stores; 
National Association of Home Builders; National 
Association of Manufacturers; National 
Association of REALTORS; National 
Association of the Remodeling Industry; National 
Automatic Merchandising Association; 
National Black Chamber of Commerce; 
National Club Association; National Community 
Pharmacists Association; National 
Council of Chain Restaurants; National Federation 
of Independent Business; National 

Grocers Association; National Lumber and 
Building Material Dealers Association; National 
Marine Manufacturers Association; 
National On-site Testing Associates; National 
Restaurant Association; National Retail 
Federation; National Roofing Contractors 
Association; National Shooting Sports 
Foundation; Nebraska Chamber of Commerce 
& Industry; Nevada Manufacturers Association; 
Nevada Restaurant Association; 
New Mexico Restaurant Association; Non-
Ferrous Founders’ Society; North American 
Association of Food Equipment Manufacturers; 
North American Die Casting Association; 
North Dakota Hospitality Association; 
Northeast Pennsylvania Manufacturers and 
Employers Association; NPES The Association 
for Suppliers of Printing, Publishing 
and Converting Technologies; Ohio Restaurant 
Association; Oklahoma Restaurant 
Association; Oregon Restaurant and Lodging 
Association; Pennsylvania Manufacturers’ 
Association; Pennsylvania Restaurant Association; 
Pennsylvania Retailers Association; 
Plumbing-Heating-Cooling Contractors—National 
Association; Precision Machined 
Products Association; Printing Industries of 
America; Puerto Rico Manufacturers Association; 
Resilient Floor Covering Institute; 
Restaurant Association of Maryland; Retailers 
Association of Massachusetts; Rhode Island 
Hospitality Association; Security Industry 
Association; Small Business & Entrepreneurship 
Council; Snack Food Association; 
Society of American Florists; Society 
of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates; 
Society of Glass & Ceramic Decorators Products; 
South Carolina Hospitality Association; 
South Dakota Retailers Association; 
Southeastern Lumber Manufacturers Association; 
Specialty Equipment Market Association; 
SPI: The Plastics Industry Trade Association; 
Tennessee Hospitality Association; 
Texas Association of Business; Texas 
Restaurant Association; Textile Care Allied 
Trades Association; The Greater El Paso 
Chamber of Commerce; Treated Wood Council; 
Tree Care Industry Association; U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce; U.S. Travel Association; 
Utah Food Industry Association; Utah 
Manufacturers Association; Utah Restaurant 
Association; Utah Retail Merchants Association; 
Ventura County Agricultural Association; 
Virginia Hospitality & Travel Association; 
Washington Restaurant Association; 
Washington Retail Association; West Virginia 
Manufacturers Association; Window & 
Door Manufacturers Association; Wisconsin 
Manufacturers & Commerce; Wisconsin Restaurant 
Association; Wood Machinery Manufacturers 
of America; Wyoming Lodging and 
Restaurant Association. 

f 

SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS 

SENATE RESOLUTION 342—HON


ORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY 

OF LAURA POLLA´ N 

Mr. RUBIO submitted the following 
resolution; which was referred to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations: 

S. RES. 342 
Whereas Laura Polla´n founded the Ladies 
in White (Damas de Blanco) movement to 
protest the mass arrest of peaceful dissidents 
in Cuba; 
Whereas the Ladies in White is composed 
of wives and female relatives of imprisoned 
political prisoners, prisoners of conscience, 
and peaceful dissidents in Cuba; 
Whereas every Sunday, Laura Polla´n led 
the Ladies in White on peaceful marches to 
attend Mass; 

Whereas Laura Polla´n was often subjected 
to physical and verbal assaults during her 
weekly peaceful marches; 

Wheras Laura Polla´n brought international 
attention to the human- and civil-
rights abuses in Cuba; and 

Whereas Laura Polla´n passed away on October 
14, 2011: Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) recognizes and honors Laura Polla´n for 
her peaceful struggle to bring human rights 
and democracy to Cuba; 
(2) honors the bravery of Laura Polla´n and 
her dedication to human and civil rights in 
Cuba; 
(3) offers heartfelt condolences to the family, 
friends, and loved ones of Laura Polla´n; 
and 
(4) expresses hope that in memory of Laura 
Polla´n, peaceful dissidents in Cuba will no 
longer be incarcerated or subjected to 
human-rights abuses. 
f 

SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 
33—REORGANIZING THE 
NEED TO IMPROVE PHYSICAL 
ACCESS TO MANY FEDERALLY 
FUNDED FACILITIES FOR ALL 
PEOPLE OF THE UNITED 
STATES, PARTICULARLY PEOPLE 
WITH DISABILITIES 

Mr. BLUMENTHAL submitted the 
following concurrent resolution; which 
was referred to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: 


S. CON RES. 33 
Whereas in 2009, 12 percent of all people in 
the United States reported having some disability; 
Whereas in 2008, 16.9 percent of veterans, 
amounting to more than 13,000,000 people, reported 
having a service-related disability to 
the Department of Veterans Affairs; 
Whereas according to the Current Population 
Survey of the Bureau of the Census, 
the number of people in the United States 
that report having a disability is at a 20-year 
high; 
Whereas the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to insure 
that certain buildings financed with 
Federal funds are so designed and constructed 
as to be accessible to the physically 
handicapped’’, approved August 12, 1968 (42 

U.S.C. 4151 et seq.), referred to in this preamble 
as the ‘‘Architectural Barriers Act of 
1968’’, was enacted to ensure that certain federally 
funded facilities are designed and constructed 
to be accessible to people with disabilities 
and requires that physically handicapped 
persons have ready access to, and use 
of, post offices and other Federal facilities; 
Whereas automatic doors, though not mandated 
by either the Architectural Barriers 
Act of 1968 or the Americans with Disabilities 
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), provide 
a greater degree of self-sufficiency and 
dignity for people with disabilities, and the 
elderly, who may have limited strength to 
open a manual door; 

Whereas a report commissioned by the Architectural 
and Transportation Barriers 
Compliance Board (referred to in this preamble 
as the ‘‘Access Board’’), an independent 
Federal agency created to ensure access 
to federally funded facilities for people 
with disabilities, recommends that all new 
buildings used by the public should have at 
least 1 automated door at an accessible entrance, 
except for small buildings where adding 
such a door may be a financial hardship 
for the building owners; 

Whereas States and municipalities have 
begun to recognize the importance of automatic 
doors in improving accessibility; 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8157 

Whereas the laws of the State of Connecticut 
require automatic doors in certain 
shopping malls and retail businesses, the 
laws of the State of Delaware require an 
automatic door or calling device for newly 
constructed places of accommodation, and 
the laws of the District of Columbia have a 
similar requirement; 

Whereas the Facilities Standards for the 
Public Buildings Service published by the 
General Services Administration requires 
automation of at least 1 exterior door for all 
newly constructed or renovated facilities 
managed by the General Services Administration, 
including post offices; 

Whereas from 2006 to 2011, 71 percent of the 
complaints received by the Access Board regarding 
the Architectural Barriers Act of 
1968 concerned a post office or other facility 
of the United States Postal Service; 

Whereas the United States Postal Service 
employs approximately 596,000 people, making 
it the second-largest civilian employer in 
the United States; 

Whereas approximately 7,000,000 people per 
day visit 1 of the more than 36,400 post offices 
in the United States; and 

Whereas the United States was founded on 
principles of equality and freedom, and these 
principles require that all people, even those 
people with disabilities, are able to engage 
as equal members of society: Now, therefore, 
be it 

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives 
concurring), That Congress— 

(1) recognizes the immense hardships that 
people with disabilities in the United States 
must overcome every day; 
(2) reaffirms its support of the Act entitled 
‘‘An Act to insure that certain buildings financed 
with Federal funds are so designed 
and constructed as to be accessible to the 
physically handicapped’’, approved August 
12, 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151 et seq.), commonly 
known as the ‘‘Architectural Barriers Act of 
1968’’ and the Americans with Disabilities 
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), and encourages 
full compliance with such Acts; 
(3) recommends that the United States 
Postal Service and Federal agencies install 
power-assisted doors at post offices and 
other federally funded facilities, as applicable, 
to ensure equal access for all people of 
the United States; and 
(4) pledges to continue to work to identify 
and remove the barriers that prevent all people 
of the United States from having equal 
access to the services provided by the Federal 
Government. 
f 

AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND 
PROPOSED 

SA 1455. Mr. BROWN, of Ohio submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill H.R. 2354, making appropriations 
for energy and water development and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2012, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table. 

SA 1456. Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr. 
LEVIN, and Mr. DURBIN) proposed an amendment 
to the bill S. 1867, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for 
military construction, and for defense activities 
of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such 
fiscal year, and for other purposes. 

SA 1457. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill H.R. 2354, making appropriations 
for energy and water development and related 
agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2012, and for other purposes; which 
was ordered to lie on the table. 

TEXT OF AMENDMENTS 

SA 1455. Mr. BROWN of Ohio submitted 
an amendment intended to be 
proposed by him to the bill H.R. 2354, 
making appropriations for energy and 
water development and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2012, and for other purposes; 
which was ordered to lie on the table; 
as follows: 

On page 47, line 13, strike ‘‘$237,623,000’’ and 
insert ‘‘$227,247,000’’. 

On page 66, line 13, strike ‘‘$58,024,000’’ and 
insert ‘‘$68,400,000’’. 

SA 1456. Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, 
Mr. LEVIN and Mr. DURBIN) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1867, 
to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2012 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities 
of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year, and for other purposes; 
as follows: 

On p. 360, between lines 21 and 22, insert 
the following: 

(e) Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to affect existing law or authorities, 
relating to the detention of United States 
citizens, lawful resident aliens of the United 
States or any other persons who are captured 
or arrested in the United States. 
SA 1457. Mr. GRAHAM submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 2354, making appropriations 
for energy and water development 
and related agencies for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2012, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, add the following: 


SEC. ll. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF SCHEDULE 
FOR DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS-USABLE 
PLUTONIUM AT SAVANNAH 
RIVER SITE. 

Section 4306 of the Atomic Energy Defense 
Act (50 U.S.C. 2566) is amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘2012’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2013’’; 
and 
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘2019’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2020’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (3)— 
(i) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘2012’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2013’’; and 
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘2017’’ 
and inserting ‘‘2018’’; 
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘2012’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2013’’; 
(3) in subsection (c)— 
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
by striking ‘‘2012’’ and inserting ‘‘2013’’; 
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘2014’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2015’’; and 
(C) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘2020’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2021’’; 
(4) in subsection (d)— 
(A) in paragraph (1)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘2014’’ and inserting ‘‘2015’’; 
and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2020’’; 
and 
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘2020’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘2021’’; 
and 
(5) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘2023’’ and 
inserting ‘‘2024’’. 
NOTICES OF HEARINGS 

COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, 
AND PENSIONS 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I wish to 
announce that the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
will meet in open session on 
Thursday, December 8, 2011, at 9:45 a.m. 
in SD–106 to conduct a hearing entitled 
‘‘Tales from the Unemployment Line: 
Barriers Facing the Long-Term Unemployed.’’ 


For further information regarding 
this hearing, please contact the committee 
staff on (202) 224–5441. 

COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL 
RESOURCES 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce for the information 
of the Senate and the public 
that a hearing has been scheduled before 
the Senate Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

The hearing will be held on Thursday, 
December 8, 2011, at 9:30 a.m. in 
room SD–366 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building. 

The purpose of this hearing is to consider 
the nomination of Arunava 
Majumdar, to be Under Secretary of 
Energy. 

Because of the limited time available 
for the hearing, witnesses may testify 
by invitation only. However, those 
wishing to submit written testimony 
for the hearing record should send it to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources, 304 Dirksen Senate Office 
Building, Washington, DC 20510–6150, or 
by email to allisonlseyferth 
@energy.senate.gov. 

For further information, please contact 
Sam Fowler at (202) 224–7571 or Allison 
Seyferth at (202) 224–4905. 

f 

AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO 
MEET 

COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND 
FORESTRY 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry be authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on December 
1, 2011 at 10 a.m. in SD–106. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN 
AFFAIRS 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs, be authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on December 
1, 2011, at 10 a.m., to conduct a 
hearing entitled ‘‘Spurring Job Growth 
Through Capital Formation While Protecting 
Investors.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Foreign Relations be authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on December 1, 2011, at 10 a.m., 


S8158 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2011 

to held a hearing entitled, ‘‘U.S. Strategic 
Objectives Towards Iran.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND 
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs be authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate 
on December 1, 2011, at 2:30 p.m. to conduct 
a hearing entitled ‘‘Insider Trading 
and Congressional Accountability.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Indian Affairs be authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate 
on December 1, 2011, at 2:15 p.m. in 
room 628 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building to conduct a hearing entitled 
‘‘Deficit Reduction and Job Creation: 
Regulatory Reform in Indian Country.’’ 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on the Judiciary be authorized 
to meet during the session of the Senate, 
on December 1, 2011, at 10 a.m., in 
SD–226 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building, to conduct an executive business 
meeting. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON FEDERAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, 
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, FEDERAL 
SERVICES AND INTERNATIONAL SECURITY 


Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs’ Subcommittee on 
Federal Financial Management, Government 
Information, Federal Services, 
and International Security be authorized 
to meet during the session of 
the Senate on December, 1, 2011, at 

10:30 a.m. to conduct a hearing entitled, 
‘‘The financial and Societal Costs 
of Medicating America’s Foster Children.’’ 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that Tiffany Griffin, a 
fellow in Senator BINGAMAN’s office, be 
granted the privilege of the floor during 
today’s session of the Senate. 
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that Roger Yang, a 
member of the staff of Senator 
MERKLEY, be granted the privilege of 
the floor today. 
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERV


ISTS DEBT RELIEF EXTENSION 

ACT OF 2011 

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent the Senate proceed 
to the immediate consideration of H.R. 
2192, which was received from the 
House and is at the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the bill by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 2192) to exempt for an additional 
4-year period, from the application of 
the means-test presumption of abuse under 
chapter 7, qualifying members of reserve 
components of the Armed Forces and members 
of the National Guard who, after September 
11, 2001, are called to active duty or 
to perform a homeland defense activity for 
not less than 90 days. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, in 2008, I 
was proud to join Senator DURBIN in 
support of the National Guard and Reservists 
Debt Relief Act, which President 
Bush signed into law. This last 
week I have been able to arrange on behalf 
of the Senate Judiciary Committee 
for expedited action on the 
bill’s extension, and that the Senate is 
passing unanimously. I commend 
Chairman LAMAR SMITH and the House 
Judiciary Committee for moving this 
legislation, and Representative COHEN, 
the bill’s author, for his leadership and 
attention to the issue. Without this 
measure, the authority we provided to 
help our Guard and Reserve families 
would expire. By taking this action we 
preserve the assistance this authority 
provides. 

It is a privilege to work on behalf of 
the men and women who serve in the 
Vermont National Guard. They have 
and continue to make all Vermonters 
proud. I cannot say enough about the 
men and women who serve in the National 
Guard and Reserve. They and 
their families deserve the full support 
of Congress for the sacrifices they 
make. Especially now, where multiple 
conflicts have demanded even more of 
them, when so many have been called 
into active service, we need to keep 
them foremost in our thoughts. 

Extending the protections of the National 
Guard and Reservists Debt Relief 
Act for another 4 years is the right 
thing to do. The bill the Senate passes 
today will exempt qualifying members 
of the Guard and Reserve from the 
harsh means test imposed in our bankruptcy 
laws a few years ago. As a result 
of Congress’s enactment of a 2005 bankruptcy 
measure, passed at the behest of 
large banks and credit card companies, 
Americans who must make the difficult 
decision to seek the protection of 
the bankruptcy court now face onerous 
requirements to demonstrate that they 
are experiencing sufficient hardship to 
enter chapter 7 bankruptcy. Under the 
National Guard and Reservists Debt 
Relief Extension Act, qualifying members 
of the Guard and Reserve will be 
protected against the burden of this requirement 
for another 4 years. 

In my view, no American, particularly 
in times of such economic hardship, 
should have this burdensome requirement 
of the so-called means test 
imposed upon them. The bankruptcy 
system was established to protect 
Americans and give them a fresh start. 
The 2005 enactment turned the law on 
its head. I opposed this provision in the 
Senate in 2005, and continue to have serious 
misgivings about a policy that 
presumes that Americans facing extreme 
financial hardships are abusing 
the bankruptcy process. 

Passage of the National Guard and 
Reservists Debt Relief Extension Act is 
a step forward toward correcting our 
current policy. 

I also note that passage of this legislation 
is another example of the good 
cooperation that exists between the 
Senate and House Judiciary Committees 
operating across the aisle and 
across the Capitol. Last night, the Senate 
passed H.R. 394, the Federal Courts 
Jurisdiction and Venue Clarification 
Act, a bill sponsored by Chairman 
SMITH to bring clarity to the operation 
of Federal jurisdictional and venue 
statutes, thereby helping to reduce 
wasteful litigation over these issues. 
This bipartisan bill was cosponsored in 
the House by Representatives by HOWARD 
COBLE, ranking member JOHN CONYERS, 
Jr., and HANK JOHNSON of Georgia. 
Companion legislation was introduced 
in the Senate by Senator KLOBUCHAR, 
who chairs the Senate Judiciary 
Committee’s Subcommittee on Administrative 
Oversight and the Courts, 
and was cosponsored by Senator SESSIONS, 
the ranking member on the subcommittee. 


These two bills are just the most recent 
examples of legislation I have 
worked with Chairman SMITH to enact. 
Of course, we worked together to enact 
the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act 
to revitalize our patent laws. We 
worked together on authorizing the extension 
of the term of FBI Director 
Mueller, which required a statutory exception, 
and on reauthorizing the USA 
PATRIOT Act. 

Other examples include H.R. 368, Representative 
HANK JOHNSON’s bill to 
clarify removal provisions for matters 
filed in State courts against Federal 
agencies and officers; H.R. 398, Representative 
LOFGREN’s bill to toll certain 
time periods for those in active 
service to our country; S.1637, Senator 
KLOBUCHAR’s bill to clarify how time is 
calculated under the Federal Rules; 
and H.R. 2944, Chairman SMITH’s bill to 
extend the authority of the U.S. Parole 
Commission. 

In addition to these nine measures, 
we are continuing to work on a number 
of additional bills, including: S. 1639, 
Senator TESTER’s bill to amend the 
American Legion charter; and S. 1541, 
Senator BENNET’s bill to revise the 
Blue Star Mothers’ charter. 

I look forward to our continued collaborative 
relationship. Our successful 
efforts across the aisle and across the 
Capitol show that the partisan gridlock 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S8159 

that has become all too prevalent these 
days does not govern everywhere. 

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the bill be 
read a third time and passed, the motion 
to reconsider be laid upon the 
table, with no intervening action or debate, 
and any statements related to the 
bill be printed in the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The bill (H.R. 2192) was ordered to a 
third reading, was read the third time, 
and passed. 

f 

UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT—
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR 

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that on Monday, 
December 5, 2011, at 4:30 p.m., the Senate 
proceed to executive session to consider 
the following nominations: Calendar 
items Nos. 363, 364, 365, and 406, 
under the previous order. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ORDERS FOR MONDAY, DECEMBER 
5, 2011 

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that when the Senate 
completes its business today, it adjourn 
until 2 p.m. on Monday, Decem


ber 5, 2011; that following the prayer 
and pledge, the Journal of proceedings 
be approved to date, the morning hour 
be deemed expired, the time for the two 
leaders be reserved for their use later 
in the day; that following any leader 
remarks, the Senate be in a period of 
morning business until 4:30 p.m. with 
Senators permitted to speak therein 
for up to 10 minutes each; and that following 
morning business, the Senate 
proceed to executive session under the 
previous order. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

PROGRAM 
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, the 
next rollcall vote will be Monday at 

5:30 p.m. on confirmation of one of the 
judicial nominations. We expect the remaining 
three judges to be confirmed 
by consent. 
As a reminder, cloture was filed on 
the nomination of Caitlin Joan 
Halligan, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for 
the District of Columbia. That cloture 
vote will occur at noon on Tuesday. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY, 
DECEMBER 5, 2011, AT 2 P.M. 
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, if 
there is no further business to come be


fore the Senate, I ask unanimous consent 
that it stand adjourned under the 
previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 9:52 p.m., adjourned until Monday, 
December 5, 2011, at 2 p.m. 

f 

NOMINATIONS 

Executive nominations received by 
the Senate: 

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES 

MARILYN B. TAVENNER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ADMINISTRATOR 
OF THE CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID 
SERVICES, VICE DONALD M. BERWICK, RESIGNED. 

IN THE ARMY 

THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT 
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY 
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624: 

To be lieutenant colonel 

RICHARD M. SCOTT 

f 

WITHDRAWAL 

Executive message transmitted by 
the President to the Senate on December 
1, 2011 withdrawing from further 
Senate consideration the following 
nomination: 

DONALD M. BERWICK, OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO BE ADMINISTRATOR 
OF THE CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND 
MEDICAID SERVICES, VICE MARK B. MCCLELLAN, WHICH 
WAS SENT TO THE SENATE ON JANUARY 26, 2011. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E2145 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

OAKHURST PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 

HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
submit the following Proclamation. 

Whereas, Oakhurst Presbyterian Church 
has been and continues to be a beacon of 
light to our county for the past ninety years; 
and 

Whereas, Pastors Gibson ‘‘Nibs’’ Stroupe 
and Pastor Caroline Leach and the members 
of the and Oakhurst Presbyterian Church family 
today continues to uplift and inspire those 
in our county; 

Whereas, the Oakhurst Presbyterian Church 
family has been and continues to be a place 
where citizens are touched spiritually, mentally 
and physically through outreach ministries and 
community partnership to aid in building up 
our District; and 

Whereas, this remarkable and tenacious 
Church of God has given hope to the hopeless, 
fed the needy and empowered our community 
for the ninety (90) years by preaching 
the gospel and living the gospel; and 

Whereas, Oakhurst has produced many 
spiritual warriors, people of compassion, people 
of great courage, fearless leaders and 
servants to all, but most of all visionaries who 
have shared not only with their Church, but 
with DeKalb County and the world their passion 
to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ; and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia has set aside this 
day to honor and recognize the Oakhurst 
Presbyterian Church family on their 90th Anniversary 
and for their leadership and service to 
our District; 

Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby proclaim September 25, 
2011 as Oakhurst Presbyterian Church Day in 
the 4th Congressional District. 

Proclaimed, this 25th day of September, 
2011. 

f 

WORKFORCE DEMOCRACY AND 
FAIRNESS ACT 

SPEECH OF 

HON. RUSH D. HOLT 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, November 30, 2011 

The House in Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union had under 
consideration the bill (H.R. 3094) to amend 
the National Labor Relations Act with respect 
to representation hearings and the 
timing of elections of labor organizations 
under that Act. 

Mr. HOLT. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong opposition 
to the Election Prevention Act, H.R. 3094. 
As a member of the House Committee on 
Education and Workforce, I voted against this 

fundamentally flawed bill when we considered 
it and I will oppose it again today. 

The majority deceptively named this bill the 
Workplace Democracy and Fairness Act, 
which should tell us all that this bill has nothing 
to do with workplace democracy or fairness. 
If they wanted to deal with those issues 
they would bring to the floor the Employee 
Free Choice Act, which I have long been a cosponsor 
of. 

Today again the Majority is showing the 
American public that the Majority don’t think 
we have a jobs crisis in America, and that getting 
Americans back to work is not their top 
priority. 

Getting the American economy back on 
track and helping to create jobs is my first, 
second and third priority. Unlike the Majority, 
I remain committed to creating jobs immediately 
and expanding educational opportunity 
for all Americans. Unfortunately, my amendment 
to help keep almost 400,000 teachers in 
the classroom was rejected on procedural 
grounds. 

Rather than bringing to the floor legislation 
to help create jobs, we are wasting the time of 
this House attempting to undermine workers 
rights. 

The Election Prevention Act continues an 
assault on the National Labor Relations Board 
(NLRB) and the work it does to uphold the 
rights of workers across our county. This bill 
will NOT help create a single job. Rather, the 
bill would allow employers to delay union organizing 
elections in the hopes of discouraging 
workers from organizing, encourage frivolous 
litigation and manipulate the procedures 
of union elections. 

The NLRB has proposed real changes to restore 
fairness to the union election process 
and reduce unnecessary delays. For example 
the proposed rules would allow the electronic 
filing of petitions, ensure that all parties receive 
timely information about pending matters, 
and allow for the consolidation of all appeals 
into a single post-election appeals process. 
These are sensible changes. Yet, the 
Election Prevention Act would override these 
proposed rules, and make arbitrary delays 
commonplace. 

This bill is one more solution in search of a 
problem. The problem is jobs; the solution is 
Congress taking bold steps to get Americans 
back to work. At a town hall I recently held, no 
one asked me about the NLRB, they asked 
me about jobs and economic growth. 

We should be mindful of why Congress approved 
the National Labor Relations Act 
(NLRA) and established the NLRB in 1935. 
Senator Robert Wagner who wrote the NLRA 
reminded his colleagues that in 1935 ‘‘in the 
highest income bracket, one-tenth of 1 percent 
of the families in the United States were earning 
as much as the 42 percent at the bottom.’’ 
Today’s economic conditions are remarkably 
similar. 

Yet, instead of helping workers organize 
and bargain collectively to help raise wages, 
improve workplace safety and ensure a comfortable 
retirement, the Election Prevention Act 

ignores the economic crisis facing American 
workers and makes the American Dream even 
harder to achieve. 

f 

A TRIBUTE TO CRAIG SAMUEL 

HON. EDOLPHUS TOWNS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Mr. Craig Samuel for his culinary expertise 
that has infused Brooklyn with tastes from 
all over the world while celebrating the roots of 
New York culture. 

Born and raised in Bedford Stuyvesant, 
Brooklyn, Mr. Samuel developed a strong talent 
in visual art, and ultimately attended New 
York City’s Art and Design High School. While 
in high school, his artist’s eye was evidenced 
at home, as he created culinary dishes that 
were not only delicious, but also beautiful to 
look at. Mr. Samuel developed a love for the 
art of cooking at a very early age. 

After High School, Mr. Samuel attended 
Temple University, where he followed his father’s 
wishes and majored in business and economics. 
Early in his college career, Mr. Samuel’s 
father passed away. After that life-altering 
event, he soon found himself at the Philadelphia 
Restaurant School. Never lacking in 
courage, Mr. Samuel decided that he would 
approach the chef/owner of the most revered 
restaurant in Philadelphia, which was also one 
of the most important restaurants in the world 
of haute cuisine, Le Bec Fin. 

His time spent at Le Bec Fin reinforced that 
Craig had the talent, stamina, and discipline to 
compete in the culinary world. After graduating 
at the top of his class in culinary school and 
completing his internship, he headed back to 
New York and ultimately became the executive 
chef at both The Cub Room and City Hall 
Restaurants. During this time Mr. Samuel left 
the U.S. to cook in Spain and in France and 
do a food tour of Italy. After coming back to 
the U.S. he decided it was time to open up a 
venture of his own. 

In 2005, while still executive chef at City 
Hall Restaurant, Mr. Samuel and his good 
friend and sous chef, Ben Grossman teamed 
up to go into the barbecue business in Brooklyn. 
They opened The Smoke Joint in Fort 
Greene in 2006. Since that time, Mr. Samuel 
has opened Peaches Restaurant and Peaches 
HotHouse and has had numerous favorable 
reviews in Time Out, The New York Times, 
New York Magazine, New York Press, the Village 
Voice and many others. The Smoke Joint 
has the unmatched honor of being the only 
Brooklyn based barbecue restaurant featured 
in the world renowned Michelin Guide. 

Mr. Samuel is happily married to Laura. 
They have two children, Tiara, who is currently 
a junior attending The Fashion Institute of 
Technology, and Alana who is in her sophomore 
year at The Saint Paul’s School in Concord, 
NH. 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E2146 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2011 

Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize Mr. 
Craig Samuel for his exceptional foresight in 
the culinary business that has provided Brooklyn 
with tastes from around the country. 

f 

SOUTHEASTERN FEDERAL 
REGIONAL DIRECTORS 

HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
submit the following Proclamation. 

Whereas, the Southeastern Region of the 
United States has many citizens that work to 
make our Region a worthy instrument for 
good; and 

Whereas, President Barack Obama appointed 
five outstanding individuals to serve as 
directors of the Southeastern agencies, 
Cassius Butts, Small Business Administration, 
Gwendolyn Keyes-Fleming, Environmental 
Protection Agency, Edward Jennings, Department 
of Housing and Urban Development, 
Paulette Norvel Lewis, U.S. Department of 
Labor and Carlis V. Williams, Department of 
Health and Human Services, each individual 
being charged to bring community service, 
honor and excellence in government; and 

Whereas, the Southeastern Regional Directors 
are promoting and providing the concept 
of One Community-One Goal by working with 
and for individuals in all walks of life to make 
our Region a place where the needs of the 
people are met; and 

Whereas, these directors give of themselves 
tirelessly and unconditionally to serve our 
community and our nation by providing leadership 
and service; and 

Whereas, the lives of many in our district 
are touched by the leadership and service 
given by these directors; and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia has set aside this 
day to honor and recognize Cassius Butts, 
Gwendolyn Keyes-Fleming, Edward Jennings, 
Paulette Norvel Lewis and Carlis V. Williams 
for their outstanding service to America; 

Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby proclaim October 27, 2011 
as Southeastern Federal Regional Directors 
Day In the 4th Congressional District of Georgia. 


Proclaimed, this 27th day of October, 2011. 

f 

HONORING RICHARD ‘‘RICK’’ 
ROBINSON 

HON. JEFF DENHAM 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
acknowledge and honor Richard (Rick) Robinson, 
Stanislaus County Chief Executive Officer, 
and to thank him for his leadership and 
dedication to the citizens of Stanislaus County. 

Richard (Rick) Robinson was appointed 
Stanislaus County Chief Executive Officer in 
September, 2004. Prior to his appointment in 
Stanislaus County, he had, since 1991, held 
the position of Chief Administrator with 
Tehama County. Rick started his local govern


ment career in 1981 in the Tehama County 
Auditor-Controller’s Office as an Accountant. 
In 1986, he was elected Auditor-Controller and 
ran unopposed for a second four-year term in 
1990. 

Mr. Robinson currently serves on several 
local Committees, including the Community 
Hospice Board of Directors, the Governing 
Board of Doctors Medical Center, Stanislaus 
Workforce Alliance Board of Directors, and the 
Valley First Credit Union Supervisory Committee. 


Rick was recently honored by the Stanislaus 
County Equal Rights Commission as a recipient 
of the 2011 Annual Dale Butler Equal 
Rights Award for exemplary service in equal 
employment opportunity matters and leadership 
in promoting equal rights. 

Faced with severe financial challenges during 
the current economic crisis, Mr. Robinson 
led an effort to develop a multi-year framework 
around which the County Budget functions—a 
strategy which enables the County to address 
both current and future year budget shortfalls 
in a systematic and proactive manner. 

During his career with Stanislaus County, 
Rick led many efforts aimed at strengthening 
the County Health Care safety net, including 
successful initiatives to attain the Federally 
Qualified Health Care Facility Designation in 
the County’s Health Clinic system, a multi-year 
effort to retain the County Residency Program, 
and the sale and transition of the Stanislaus 
Behavioral Health Center to private ownership. 

Mr. Robinson has also led efforts to create 
an Animal Services Joint Powers Agency, construct 
a state-of-the-art Animal Shelter, create 
the new Modesto Regional Fire Authority, 
securitize future tobacco settlement revenues 
in excess of $40 million and establish, with 
board approval, a capital facilities revolving 
loan fund to assist in financing future County 
construction projects, and coordinate the 
County’s 2011 redistricting efforts. 

Rick was an honors graduate of California 
State University, Chico, earning his degree in 
Business Administration with an emphasis in 
Accounting. He is a lifetime selection to Beta 
Gamma Sigma, a national scholastic honor 
society for business graduates. 

As Chief Executive Officer with Stanislaus 
County, under the direction of the Board of 
Supervisors, Mr. Robinson oversees all aspects 
of Stanislaus County government, which 
includes 26 County departments, a $900 million 
operating budget and over 3600 employees. 


Rick has been married to his wife Kathy for 
thirty-seven years. They have four children 
and eight grandchildren. 

Mr. Speaker, please join me in honoring and 
commending Richard (Rick) Robinson, 
Stanislaus County Chief Executive Officer, for 
his numerous years of selfless service to the 
betterment of our community. 

f 

A TRIBUTE TO KESHA TOWNSEL 

HON. EDOLPHUS TOWNS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Kesha Townsel for her devotion to the 
public education and youth in Brooklyn. 

Ms. Townsel is the Assistant Principal of 
Public School 5. She has served in various 

positions since joining the staff of Public 
School 5 in September, 2000. Ms. Townsel 
was a third grade teacher for 5 years, Business 
Manager for 5 years, and is presently an 
assistant Principal. Ms. Townsel began her 
teaching career with a Bachelors of Science 
Degree in Speech Pathology and Audiology 
from Brooklyn College. She then served in 
residence as a Speech Therapist in an Early 
Intervention Center at Downstate Hospital. 

Ms. Townsel was a member of the first cohort 
of the New York City Teaching Fellows. 
Through that program she earned her Master 
Degree in Elementary Education. Although 
being a classroom teacher, Ms. Townsel continued 
to provide speech and language therapy 
services to children in NYC’ s Early Intervention 
Program. Ms. Townsel has served as 
Business Manager and Staff Developer since 
September 2005. During that time Ms. 
Townsel earned her advanced Masters Degree 
in School District Leadership through a 
compact with the UFT and Stony Brook University. 


In her management role, Ms. Townsel has 
provided various services to the children of 
Public School 5. Ms. Townsel collaborated in 
providing programs such as; New York Cares, 
Scholastic Book Fairs, Learning Gardens, 
Club Getaway, Poly-tech University & New 
York University. Ms. Townsel’s collaboration 
with Poly-Tech University and NYU has increased 
the experiences in the Math, Science, 
Engineering and Technology areas for students 
at Public School 5. This collaboration 
helped to form Public School 5’s first LEGO 
Robotics Team. Ms. Townsel, in collaboration 
with the Poly-Tech fellow during the 2010– 
2011 school year; assisted the team in winning 
a First Place trophy for ‘‘Team Work’’ and 
helped them qualify for the NYC competition 
at the Jacobs Javitz Center. 

Ms. Townsel continues to strive for excellence 
for the students of Public School 5. She 
provides speech therapy, volunteers on her 
housing development board, and sings with a 
local community choir, as well as assists with 
various educationally founded organizations 
such as the Caring Educators and the Adelaide 
Sanford Institute. She has also taught 
NYC–DOE Budgeting as a guest speaker for 
the past two semesters at Long Island University. 


Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize Ms. 
Townsel for her unwavering support to education 
and youth in Brooklyn. 

f 

UNJUST IMPRISONMENT OF ALAN 
GROSS 

HON. CHARLES B. RANGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
express my sincere concern over the unjust 
imprisonment of Alan Gross by the Cuban 
government. A true humanitarian, Mr. Gross 
was sentenced in March to 15 years in prison 
for ‘‘acts to undermine the integrity and independence’’ 
of Cuba. 

Before the sentencing earlier this year, Mr. 
Gross had already been imprisoned for two 
years without charge. He was in Cuba as part 
of a USAID contract to provide support to 
members of the Cuban Jewish community 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E2147 

when he was arrested. He was helping to improve 
their access to the internet and to build 
an intranet. Never did any of his actions pose 
a threat or danger to the Cuban government. 
Because of his unethical imprisonment, Mr. 
Gross, who is 62 years old, is declining in 
health and spirit and quick action must be 
taken. 

Mr. Gross is an international development 
specialist and social worker. He has positively 
impacted the lives of people in over 50 countries, 
including the West Bank, Gaza, Iraq, Afghanistan, 
Africa, and Haiti. His work has always 
focused on helping people. 

I join my constituents of the Jewish Community 
Relations Council of New York, Mr. Gross’ 
wife Judy, their two daughters, and my Colleagues 
Senator BEN CARDIN and Congressman 
CHRIS VAN HOLLEN in calling for the 
speedy and unconditional release of Allan 
Gross. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. MIKE ROSS 

OF ARKANSAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. ROSS of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, on 
Wednesday, November 30, 2011, I was not 
present for rollcall vote 869 on passage of 

H.R. 3094, the Workforce Democracy and 
Fairness Act. 
Had I been present for rollcall 869, I would 
have voted ‘‘no.’’ 

f 

A TRIBUTE TO THEOPHINE 
ABAKPORO 

HON. EDOLPHUS TOWNS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Theophine Abakporo for his dynamic 
approach to healthcare in my district of Brooklyn, 
New York. 

Dr. Abakporo, M.D. is the Medical Director/ 
Chairman, Emergency Services of Wyckoff 
Heights Medical Center and an Assistant Professor 
of Emergency Medicine in Clinical Medicine 
at Weill Cornell Medical College/New 
York Presbyterian Hospital. Dr. Abakporo has 
worked with Wyckoff for the last fourteen 
years, and has been instrumental in forging a 
relationship between the community and the 
hospital. He is also an Attending Physician in 
Emergency Medicine at Brookdale University 
Hospital & Medical Center. Dr. Abakporo is 
Board Certified in Internal Medicine, Emergency 
Medicine, and Disaster Medicine. 

While pursuing his medical career Dr. 
Abakporo became deeply involved in the 
health care needs of inner-city communities in 
the United States. Dr. Abakporo worked hard 
and committed himself to participating in 
health outreach and other programs related to 
the well being of the Brooklyn communities 
such as Ocean Hill, Brownsville, East New 
York, BedStuy, Bushwick and Ridgewood 
communities. This strong willingness to help 
and care for people, contributed to his interest 
and focus in the field of Emergency Medicine 
and Pre-Hospital Care. 

Dr. Abakporo is the recipient of a Congressional 
Award of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
and an award in Health Care Excellence 
in Community Service. He is a 
Healthcare Advisor to Congressman 
EDOLPHUS TOWNS, 10th Congressional District, 
New York. He was also appointed Chairman 
of the Health Advisory Council of the 10th 
Congressional District of New Jersey by Congressman 
DONALD PAYNE. 

In response to the increasing need for disaster 
awareness and management, Dr. 
Abakporo has taken further training and certification. 
He is certified by the United States Department 
of Homeland Security in Healthcare 
Leadership and Administrative decision making 
in responses to weapons of mass destruction 
(WMD). He is certified by the United 
States Army in Chemical, Biological, Radiological, 
Nuclear, and Explosive incidents 
(CBRNE). In addition, he is certified by the 
Fire Department of New York (FDNY) in Online—
Medical Control. 

Dr. Abakporo is an accomplished, young 
and dynamic physician, with a distinguished 
track record of working successfully with 
healthcare professionals, government leaders 
and community groups to address health care 
issues. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize 
Dr. Theophine Abakporo for providing an intuitive 
approach to healthcare in his community 
and to our country. 

f 

RECOGNIZING LORETTA KING 

HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON 

OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
ask my colleagues in the House of Representatives 
to join me in recognizing Loretta King, 
a champion for civil rights, a loving wife and 
mother, and a dedicated public servant. 

Today, Loretta is celebrating her retirement 
most recently as the career Deputy Assistant 
Attorney General in the United States Department 
of Justice, Civil Rights Division. In total, 
Loretta has dedicated more than 32 years of 
her life in defense of our Nation and the public 
at large. 

Loretta’s career is one self-sacrifice and 
commitment to protecting the rights of all 
Americans, without regard to race, gender, or 
political affiliation. 

As a career-track civil servant, Loretta epitomizes 
a Justice Department lawyer; Loretta 
did so without seeking the limelight, year after 
year, day in and day out, for all her career. 
Starting as a law clerk while completing her 
studies, Loretta literally rose up the ranks at 
the Justice Department to become the Acting 
Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, the 
government’s chief civil rights advocate. 

After graduating in 1990 from American University, 
Washington College of Law, Loretta 
was chosen by the Justice Department’s Legal 
Honors Program. From 1980 to 1990, Loretta 
served as a line attorney in the Civil Rights Division’s 
Employment Litigation Section, tasked 
with enforcing Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights 
Act. In this post, Loretta led and settled the 
Justice Department’s first sexual harassment 
case as well as its first paternity leave case. 
Over the next 20 years, Loretta worked in both 
the Justice Department’s Civil and Civil Rights 

Divisions. In 1992, Loretta was tapped to 
serve as the Deputy Chief of the Civil Rights 
Division’s Voting Section. In 1994, Loretta was 
elevated to her current role as the Civil Rights 
Division’s Deputy Assistant Attorney General, 
where she has served continuously for 17 
years, except during temporary assignments 
to other senior roles in the Division. Specifically, 
in 2009, Loretta served as her Division’s 
Acting Assistant Attorney General, pending 
confirmation to that post of Thomas Perez. 
From August 2010 through June 2011, Loretta 
led the Civil Rights Division’s Employment Litigation 
Section as its Acting Chief. 

A civil rights legal pioneer, Loretta became 
one of the highest ranking women and persons 
of color to serve in the Justice Department, 
and the first African-American woman to 
hold the positions in the Civil Rights Division 
of Acting Assistant Attorney General and Deputy 
Assistant Attorney General. 

As a Member of Congress representing 
Americans who know all too well the sting of 
injustice, I am here to salute Loretta’s tireless 
work and long service upholding the civil and 
constitutional rights of all Americans. As Robert 
F. Kennedy once said, ‘‘few will have the 
greatness to bend history itself; but each of us 
can work to change a small portion of events, 
and in the total; of all those acts will be written 
the history of this generation.’’ Loretta has 
done just that. 

Again, I ask the House to celebrate Loretta 
as a servant to her family and country as well 
as defender of the civil rights of all people, including 
the residents of the Nation’s capital. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. BRUCE L. BRALEY 

OF IOWA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. BRALEY of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I regret 
missing a floor vote on Wednesday, November 
30, 2011. Had I registered my vote, I 
would have voted: ‘‘No’’ on rollcall No. 869, 
On Final Passage of H.R. 3094—the Workforce 
Democracy and Fairness Act. 

f 

HONORING CHICK–FIL–A 

HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
submit the following Proclamation. 

Whereas, we need businesses to set up 
shop in our community to provide the goods 
and services that are needed in order for our 
citizens to survive and thrive on a day-to-day 
basis; and 

Whereas, in 2001, Mr. Tony Royal opened 
the 1,000th Chick-fil-A restaurant at Turner Hill 
Road here in Lithonia, Georgia to service the 
citizens of DeKalb County, Georgia and nearby 
communities; and 

Whereas, Mr. Royal is the owner and operator 
of the restaurant, he credits all of the success 
to his team: the sales, the community 
outreach, the community partnership, and the 
promotion of scholarships; and 

Whereas, Mr. Royal and the Chick-fil-A 
team at Turner Hill continues to be a resource 


E2148 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2011 

for citizens in DeKalb County and beyond with 
excellent service, providing employment opportunities 
and providing a product that ‘‘keeps 
America moving’’—contributing to the local 
and national economy; and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia is officially honoring, 
recognizing and congratulating Mr. Tony Royal 
and Chick-fil-A at Turner Hill on their tenth 
(10th) anniversary as a business anchor in our 
District; 

Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby proclaim November 1st, 
2011 as Chick-fil-A Day in the 4th Congressional 
District of Georgia. 

Proclaimed, this 1st day of November, 2011. 

f 

HONORING ZELLA GHARAT 

HON. JEFF DENHAM 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize and honor Zella Gharat, who after 
33 years as a member of the Stanislaus 
County Board of Education, has announced 
her plans to retire effective December 13, 
2011. 

A retired legal assistant, Gharat was first 
appointed to the County Board of Education 
on June 6, 1978. Throughout the years, she 
has worked with four county superintendents, 
including Neal Wade, John Allard, Martin Petersen 
and the current superintendent, Tom 
Changnon. She’s seen many changes in education 
since 1978. ‘‘Special education programs 
were fairly new when I started, and I’ve 
watched the Head Start program grow over 
the years,’’ said Gharat. ‘‘I was on the Board 
when we purchased our current Outdoor Education 
site and was there for our first county 
Academic Decathlon and our first Youth Entertainment 
Stage Company performance. I also 
remember the important vote to purchase 
SCOE’s administration building at 1100 H 
Street,’’ she said. 

Stanislaus County Superintendent of 
Schools Tom Changnon praised Gharat for 
her invaluable contributions to the Board. 
‘‘Zella always has the best interest of students 
in mind,’’ said Changnon. ‘‘She is an advocate 
for children and a valuable member of the 
Board. We will miss her.’’ 

‘‘I’ve seen a lot of changes over the past 33 
years, and I’ve also seen opportunities for students 
expand,’’ said Gharat. ‘‘From charter 
schools to specialized academies, there are a 
multitude of programs in place to ensure that 
every student can succeed,’’ she said. ‘‘I’m 
proud of all that we’ve accomplished over the 
years.’’ 

Through its role of long-range policy development 
and other critical functions, the County 
Board works with the Stanislaus County Superintendent 
of Schools and staff to offer the 
most effective education programs and district 
support services. The County Board of Education 
has responsibility for approving the annual 
county office budget, adopting policies 
governing the operation of the Board, acting 
as the appeals board for student expulsions, 
acting as the appeals board for inter-district 
transfers, acting as the appeals board for 
Charter School petitions, establishing the 
County Superintendent’s salary, and may 
serve as the landlord and owner of property. 

The Board also encourages the involvement 
of families and communities and is a vehicle 
for citizen access to communication about 
SCOE’s programs and services. Regular 
meetings of the Stanislaus County Board of 
Education are open to the public and are held 
on the second Tuesday of each month beginning 
at 8:30 a.m. Meetings are generally held 
at the Stanislaus County Office of Education, 
unless otherwise announced. 

Mr. Speaker, please join me in thanking 
Zella Gharat for her 33 years of dedicated 
service as a member of the Stanislaus County 
Board of Education. 

f 

A TRIBUTE TO LCG COMMUNITY 
SERVICES, INC. 

HON. EDOLPHUS TOWNS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. TOWNS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor the LCG Community Services, Inc. for 
its mission to provide client-centered services 
to low-income individuals with one or more 
special needs to constituents in my district of 
Brooklyn, New York. 

LCG Community Services, Inc. (LCG) is a 
501(c)(3) not-for-profit community based organization 
that began operations in 2006. LCG 
offers their services to individuals that have 
special needs, such as homelessness, mental 
illness, and developmental disabilities, the elderly, 
chronic illness, HIV/AIDS, substance 
abuse, and victims of domestic violence. LCG 
serves over 5,000 consumers per year from 
many different nationalities and ethnicities. 

LCG recognizes that a home is the foundation 
necessary to begin addressing other critical 
individual needs. As such, LCG takes particular 
pride in their housing programs. LCG 
provides transitional and permanent housing in 
congregate and scatter-site settings. LCG, 
through its HAC division, also operates a 
group home for orphaned children in Haiti. 
The group home established in December 
2010 is a place for adolescent orphan boys to 
grow up in a safe, supportive environment 
after the earthquake. 

LCG believes that educating consumers is 
the most effective method of advocacy. 
Through health fairs, dinners, and various 
other programs, LCG provides workshops, 
seminars, and educational materials to the 
community at-large. 

LCG has found that integrating celebrity entertainment 
with education can be a very powerful 
tool in reaching out to children and young 
adults. LCG organizes an annual, summer, 
Children’s Health Awareness Day, with famous 
entertainers that are attended by over 
2,500 families. Every Thanksgiving, LCG 
Community Services hosts over 500 seniors 
for Thanksgiving dinner at Boy’s and Girl’s 
High School, in Brooklyn. These are individuals 
who have found themselves alone during 
the Thanksgiving holiday. They also provide 
mental health professionals, and staff from 
medical clinics that speak to the seniors and 
who are available to answer questions. 

LCG also has a comprehensive guardianship 
and court evaluation program, United 
Guardianship Services of New York (UGSNY). 
UGSNY was formed to assist the elderly, 
many of whom are no longer capable of mak


ing their own health and financial decisions. 
UGSNY’s goal is to provide the highest level 
of care, through the use of dedicated legal, financial 
and social service personnel. UGSNY 
works closely with the New York State Court 
system, Adult Protective Services and other 
city and state agencies to provide comprehensive 
assistance with the respect and dignity 
that our elderly deserve. 

Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize LCG 
Community Services, Inc. for their continued 
involvement with the less fortunate. 

f 

IN COMMEMORATION OF TED 

TRAMBLEY’S CYCLING CAREER 

ON HIS 60TH BIRTHDAY 

HON. DENNIS A. CARDOZA 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. CARDOZA. Mr. Speaker, it is with great 
honor that I rise today to recognize a dedicated 
and gifted athlete on his 60th birthday, 
Ted Trambley. 

In commemoration of his birthday, I want to 
honor him and his achievements as an exceptional 
cyclist, culminating this year with a truly 
inspired race to the top of Mount Haleakala in 
Hawaii this summer in record time. 

Born in 1951, Ted Trambley grew up in 
Pleasant Hill, California and graduated College 
Park High School in 1969 and California State 
University, Hayward in 1975 where he was a 
gymnast and avid cyclist. It was in college that 
cycling became one of his true passions in life 
and he began a career in racing that has 
spanned over four decades. 

Ted has belonged to several racing clubs 
over the years, including the Diablo 
Wheelman, Strada Sempre Duro, and his current 
club, Taleo. 

Of the many races he has finished over his 
career, one of his most memorable was the 
Davis Double Century, a 200 mile race in a 
single day. In 1974, early in his career and at 
the height of his competitive peak, he was 
barely edged out of the lead and finished second. 
He continued this race annually for four 
years. 

He also participated in the Death Ride 
through the Sierra Nevada Mountains in California, 
racing 129 miles and climbing over 
15,000 feet of elevation. A race not for the 
faint of heart. 

Since 1986, Ted has been competing in the 
annual Mt. Diablo Mountain Challenge, a 10.8 
mile race climbing 3,249 feet, where he regularly 
finishes among the fastest and at the 
very top of his age group. Drawing between 
800 and 1,100 riders each year, this is one of 
the premier races in the San Francisco Bay 
Area. 

These races are just a sample of his long 
and storied career, but it was this year, in 
2011, at the Cycle to the Sun in Hawaii, on 
the island of Maui, that Ted Trambley truly 
demonstrated the strength and endurance that 
has defined his character for so many years. 

This race is one of the most difficult bike 
races in the world, climbing over 10,000 feet 
of elevation and travelling over 36 miles while 
its gradient sometimes reaches 18%. As a 
comparison, the famed Mont Ventou in the 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E2149 

Tour de France is only a 5,336 foot climb over 

13.6 miles. 
Ted Trambley won his age group with a 
time of 3 hours, 43 minutes, and 39 seconds 
and finished 35th overall. A tremendous 
achievement, he should be proud knowing he 
has conquered the sun. 

He has mentioned retirement from the racing 
circuit, but I truly doubt that he will hang 
up his cleats. It is near impossible to give up 
a lifelong passion. 

Although he has accomplished these amazing 
feats of athletic endurance over four decades 
of training and dedication, he could not 
have done so without the tireless support of 
his wife, Mary Ann, and his two sons, Sean 
and Kyle. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join 
me in honoring a truly remarkable athlete, 
husband, and father, Ted Trambley. 

f 

RECOGNIZING GEORGIA OLIVE 
FARMS 

HON. JACK KINGSTON 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
commend Georgia Olive Farms for successfully 
harvesting the first olive crop in the eastern 
United States in nearly 125 years. 

An Italian vacation inspired Jason Shaw to 
envision olives being grown in, of all places in 
the world, South Georgia. To make his vision 
a reality, he partnered with his brother Sam 
Shaw and cousin Kevin Shaw and the trio 
planted their first olive orchard near Lakeland, 
Georgia in 2008. They later established a cooperative 
association with George Hughes and 
Berrien Sutton of Homerville, Georgia to create 
Georgia Olive Farms. 

Georgia Olive Farms was organized in 2009 
near Lakeland, Georgia to establish and develop 
the innovative agricultural venture of 
mechanical olive harvesting. In September, 
they successfully harvested approximately 
three tons of arbequina olives to be processed 
into high quality extra virgin olive oil. This harvest 
marks a milestone in southern agriculture, 
as this was the first harvest of olives in not 
just the south, but in the entire eastern United 
States since the late 1800s. In addition to harvesting, 
they are a distributor of olive trees 
and offer grower contracts for others who may 
wish to expand this historical venture in order 
to introduce olives as a new viable cash crop 
for southern farmers. 

Georgia Olive Farms’ innovative techniques 
and information sharing have potential implications 
for some of our country’s great problems. 
Georgia Olive Farms has developed a new 
market which will create a new revenue 
source for farmers, create new employment 
opportunities, and expand agricultural innovations 
and inspirations. Moreover, the new market 
for olives will increase the production of 
olive oil made here in America. As such, 
American-made olive oil can finally be a significant 
and healthy alternative to the standard 
cooking oils that are correlated with the high 
rates of obesity and health concerns plaguing 
this country. Georgia Olive Farms now exists 
as a reminder that the innovations and visions 
of small businesses do in fact provide the answers 
to many of our country’s great ques


tions and that we must obligate ourselves to 
supporting them. 

f 

RECOGNIZING THE UNIVERSITY OF 
RICHMOND MEN’S BASKETBALL 
TEAM FOR REACHING THE NCAA 
BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT’S 
SWEET SIXTEEN 

HON. ERIC CANTOR 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. CANTOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize the University of Richmond men’s 
basketball team for a remarkable 2010–2011 
season, which culminated in an Atlantic 10 
Conference Championship as well as a berth 
to the Sweet Sixteen of the NCAA Division I 
Men’s Basketball Tournament. 

The University of Richmond, which is located 
in the heart of Virginia’s Seventh Congressional 
District, boasts a long tradition of 
excellence on the basketball court. Since 
1984, the Richmond Spiders have earned an 
impressive 9 bids to compete in the NCAA 
Tournament and have reached the Sweet Sixteen 
on two of those trips. 

This past March, along with cross-town rival, 
Virginia Commonwealth University, the Spiders 
captivated the entire City of Richmond as 
one of two teams advancing to the Sweet Sixteen—
a feat matched by only two other cities 
since 1980. 

The 2010–2011 season was one full of accomplishments 
for the Spiders—setting a 
school record for number of wins, 29, and 
points scored, 2,577. On several occasions, 
the Spiders defied the odds to beat top-tier 
programs. In November, the Spiders pulled off 
the upset by shocking the then-8th ranked 
Purdue Boilermakers by a score of 65-54. 
After gaining a berth to the NCAA Tournament, 
the Spiders carried their seven game 
win streak into a game against the fifth seed, 
Vanderbilt, and proceeded to knock off the favorite 
in the opening round of the tournament. 

Several Richmond players took home individual 
honors this past season as well. Senior 
guard Kevin Anderson—the 2010 Atlantic 10 
Player of the Year—continued to pile up individual 
accolades, garnering both First-Team 
All-Conference honors as well as being named 
the 2011 A-10 Tournament MVP. Senior forward 
Justin Harper also earned First-Team 
All-Conference honors and subsequently was 
drafted 32nd overall in this past June’s NBA 
Draft. Kevin Smith, a senior forward, also was 
named to the A-10 All-Defensive team. 

The Spider’s success on the basketball 
court should come as no surprise. Led by 
head coach Chris Mooney, the University of 
Richmond has established itself as not only a 
leader in the A-10 but also one of the nation’s 
elite. Mooney’s Spiders have reached the 
NCAA Tournament in back-to-back years, and 
have also finished inside the Top 25 of the 
ESPN/USA Today Coaches poll the past two 
years. The Spiders have shown that they do 
not shy away from competition—having won 
seven of their last ten games against ranked 
opponents. 

Mr. Speaker, please join me in commending 
the Richmond Spiders men’s basketball team, 
Coach Mooney, President Ed Ayers, and the 
entire community at the University of Rich


mond for a spectacular season and I wish 
them well this season. 

f 

IN MEMORY OF PASTOR CHARLES 
HENRY WILLIAMS 

HON. E. SCOTT RIGELL 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. RIGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
enter a statement into the record on behalf of 
my constituent, Reverend Aaron Wheeler: 

‘‘Pastor Charles Henry Williams has been a 
pillar of strength and love to his flock at the 
Morning Star Baptist Church and to the good 
people of the 2nd Congressional District of 
Virginia for more than 40 years. He has labored 
in the vineyard as a pastor and leader 
to all who knew and loved him, and his accomplishments 
are truly remarkable. 

From the moment Dr. Williams was called to 
the ministry in 1967, he embraced feeding the 
poor and seeking the lost for the Lord. 

Pastor Williams served on too numerous 
boards and committees to mention. Some of 
the organizations he served in as a faithful 
member and in leadership positions were the 
Virginia Beach Minister’s Conference, Sharon 
Missionary Association of Suffolk and the 
Tidewater Metro Minister’s Conference. And 
on a lighter note, Pastor Williams was honored 
by the Virginia Beach Afro-American Cultural 
Council as an ‘‘Honorary Cowboy’’ in 1999. 

This man of God was bestowed with an 
Honorary Doctorate Degree from Norfolk Seminary 
in 1997. The former Mayor of Virginia 
Beach acknowledged that December 4, 1994 
was officially, ‘‘Pastor Charles Henry Williams 
Day’’ in the city of Virginia Beach. 

It is evident to all those who interacted with 
Pastor Williams just how much this humble 
man truly loved his family. 

The people of the 2nd Congressional District 
of the State of Virginia give honor to Pastor 
Charles Henry Williams, as his untimely 
leaving is our loss but heaven’s gain. 

The Bible rang true for his service to this 
world in the scripture of 2 Timothy 4:7–8: ‘‘I 
have fought the good fight, I have finished the 
race, I have kept the faith. Finally, there is laid 
up for me the crown of righteousness, which 
the Lord, the righteous Judge will give to me 
on that Day.’’ 

f 

SENIOR VETERANS HOUSING 
ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2011 

HON. MICHAEL R. TURNER 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. TURNER of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, we 
must ensure that the men and women who 
bravely served our country have access to affordable 
housing. My bill, the Senior Veterans 
Housing Assistance Act, seeks to make sure 
that government regulations do not pose an 
impediment to achieving this important goal. 

This issue came to light because of conflicting 
rules and regulations between the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development 
and the Department of Veterans Affairs. In 
Dayton, Ohio, the St. Mary’s Neighborhood 


E2150 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2011 

Development Corporation has been attempting 
for several years to construct senior housing 
on the campus of the Dayton VA Medical Center. 
St. Mary’s was able to obtain an en-
hanced-use lease from the VA to construct the 
housing and also obtained HUD Section 202 
funding to allow for the financing of the construction 
for low-income senior housing. So we 
had VA providing the land and HUD providing 
funding, and both VA and HUD agreeing that 
this would be an excellent project to help 
homeless veterans, provide low-income housing 
for veterans, and respond to the needs of 
seniors in the community. 

However, HUD asserted that St. Mary’s was 
unable to use these critical dollars if the VA 
lease required a specific preference for veterans 
to occupy the proposed facility on the 
VA grounds. The VA rules and regulations require 
that the VA assert and request a preference 
for veterans for housing to be built on 
its campus. 

In the 111th Congress, this body unanimously 
approved and the President enacted 
into law a provision I authored to solve this 
issue. Specifically, the Fiscal Year 2010 appropriations 
measure included a prohibition on 
enforcement of HUD’s restriction against a 
veterans preference. However, this solution 
was only temporary. 

To ensure that these conflicting regulations 
do not present further, long-term obstacles for 
our veterans and seniors, I have introduced 
the Senior Veterans Housing Assistance Act. 
My bill will permanently ensure that organizations 
that seek to provide our senior veterans 
with affordable housing with HUD funds on VA 
property are able to overcome the HUD and 
VA conflicting rules and regulations. Specifically, 
the bill will allow HUD funds to be used 
for supportive housing for the elderly that provide 
preference to veterans if the property is 
or would be located on VA land, or is subject 
to an enhanced-use lease with the VA. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to 
support this important measure. 

f 

WORLD AIDS DAY 

HON. JESSE L. JACKSON, JR. 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in recognition of World AIDS Day, December 
1, 2011, and in support of the more 
than 33 million people worldwide living with 
AIDS, including over one million Americans. 

World AIDS Day began in 1988 to raise 
public awareness for one of the most deadly 
pandemics in history. Since 1981, over 25 million 
people have died from HIV or AIDS related 
illnesses, and in 2008 alone more than 

2.7 million people were newly infected. In the 
United States, more than one million people 
are living with HIV, with one in five of those 
cases currently unaware of their condition. HIV 
disproportionately affects people of color, men 
who have sex with men, and those without access 
to affordable birth control. 
2011 marks 30 years since the discovery of 
the first AIDS cases in the United States. To 
date, the work we’ve done here in the United 
States and abroad has been effective as HIV 
infections worldwide are at their lowest levels 
since 1997. There is much more to be done, 

but I’m proud of the commitment we’ve 
made—research at the National Institutes of 
Health, prevention and education programs at 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
the Ryan White CARE Act, the President’s 
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and 
the Global Fund for AIDS, TB and Malaria— 
and it is my hope that we will continue that 
great work. 

Mr. Speaker, World AIDS Day provides us 
with an occasion to raise awareness about 
HIV prevention measures. With continued 
commitment to public health programs, research, 
early testing and screening, and age 
appropriate sexual education programs, we 
can work together to protect ourselves from 
HIV, and eradicate this disease for good. 

I urge my colleagues to stand with me in 
supporting the Americans and people across 
the globe infected with HIV, and to support the 
efforts that will bring an eventual end to this 
deadly disease. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO BILL HOYT 

HON. GREG WALDEN 

OF OREGON 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize and share with you and my colleagues 
the story of Mr. Bill Hoyt and his life-
long efforts to support agriculture and ranching, 
which are so important to jobs and the 
economy in rural Oregon. Over the past two 
years, Bill has done a tremendous job serving 
as the president of the Oregon Cattlemen’s 
Association. Later this week, Bill’s term as 
president will come to an end. Before he 
hands over the reins I would like to pay tribute 
to his steadfast leadership. 

Prior to serving as president of the Oregon 
Cattlemen’s Association, Bill served as president 
of the Douglas County Livestock Association 
and as president of the Oregon Polled 
Hereford Association. On top of his duties with 
the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association, he 
serves on the board of the Oregon Forage 
and Grassland Council and the National 
Cattlemen’s Beef Association. In 2009, the Oregon 
Agribusiness Council recognized Bill’s 
service to Oregon’s agricultural and ranching 
community by presenting him with the 2009 
Voice of the Industry award. 

During his tenure as president of the Oregon 
Cattlemen’s Association, Bill has worked 
to promote and protect the interests of ranchers 
throughout Oregon. Bill has made a concerted 
effort to engage the general public 
about issues facing ranchers. He has spent 
many hours and miles traveling to meetings 
with rotary clubs, chambers of commerce and 
the environmental community, telling the story 
of Oregon’s cattle ranchers, whose $700 million 
industry provides jobs throughout rural Oregon. 
His efforts to educate the public and 
build relationships with other interested groups 
culminated in the passage of the Livestock 
Compensation and Wolf Co-Existence Act during 
Oregon’s 2011 legislative session. This 
precedent-setting legislation goes beyond 
what other states have done to compensate 
producers for livestock loss by allowing local 
county-level authorities to address compensation 
for and deterrence of livestock losses. 

Bill was raised on a beef ranch in Montana. 
After high school, he earned degrees in both 

political science and education. Bill served his 
country in the U.S. Air Force for four years before 
moving on to teach high school history. In 
1977, Bill began working as the operations 
manager for his family ranch in Montana. In 
1979, Bill expanded the operation to include 
the ranch from his mother’s family in Oregon. 
Bill and his wife Sharon now own and operate 
the Hawley Land and Cattle Company in Oregon 
with Bill’s father and younger brother. 

The ranch that Bill operates has been in the 
family for 159 years and Bill makes an effort 
to implement cutting edge stewardship practices 
for forage and livestock production. Bill 
and Sharon have diversified their operation 
over the years and now raise sheep, goats 
and beef cattle and sell grass-fed lamb and 
beef direct to markets and top-rated restaurants 
in Oregon and Washington. Through 
changing techniques, diversification and advocacy 
on behalf of the industry he loves, Bill 
hopes that agriculture and the livestock industries 
will continue to flourish in Oregon 150 
years from now. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me 
in saluting Bill Hoyt, who has served so ably 
as president of the Oregon Cattlemen’s Association. 


f 

IN RECOGNITION OF THE 16TH 
ANNIVERSARY OF WE CAN 

HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING 

OF MASSACHUSETTS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor the 10th anniversary of WE CAN, Women’s 
empowerment through Cape Area Networking 
in Harwich Port, Massachusetts. 

Recognizing that every community member’s 
well-being contributes to that of the 
whole community, WE CAN’s mission has 
been to empower Cape Cod women of all 
ages undergoing challenging life transitions. It 
includes services that bring increased opportunity, 
self-sufficiency, stability, and lasting 
positive change for themselves, their families 
and, ultimately, the entire community. After ten 
years, WE CAN remains committed to that 
mission. 

WE CAN had its beginnings at Cape Cod 
Community College in a program called 
Women in Transition, WIT, which was designed 
to help women of all ages and demographics 
improve their lives through education. 
A year later, WIT became WE CAN. In its first 
year, they helped 15 women. Early services 
included emergency financial aid; programs 
that provided guidance on reenrolling in school 
and mentorship; help filling out forms for 
emergency fuel assistance, financial aid for 
education, job applications; and information 
and referrals to other organizations on the 
Cape. Now, ten years later, at the half mark 
of this year, WE CAN, had already handled 
more than 2100 contacts and served close to 
1000 women. 

WE CAN has a true tradition of excellence 
thanks to its outstanding leadership, superior 
volunteers, board, staff, generous community 
partners and motivated program participants. 
Based on evolving needs of the Cape population, 
they continued to grow in terms of the 
number of women and their families served; 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E2151 

the development of their programs and services; 
and in terms of their ability to attract volunteers, 
secure grants and donations from 
area businesses and individuals. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join 
me in congratulating WE CAN, its staff, board, 
volunteers, community partners, and program 
participants on the celebration of 10 years of 
service to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 


f 

HONORING GABRIEL ZIMMERMAN 

HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to remember Gabriel Zimmerman, who 
tragically lost his life in the senseless shooting 
on January 8, 2011, that took 5 other lives 
and resulted in the serious wounding of our 
wonderful and resilient colleague, Representative 
GABBY GIFFORDS. 

Gabe dedicated his life to helping others. 
On that day, he had organized a Congress on 
Your Corner event so that constituents could 
bring their problems to Representative GIFFORDS 
and her staff to get them solved. We 
have learned a lot about Gabe’s commitment 
to service—his practice of going the extra mile 
to help improve the lives of so many. 

In January 2007, Gabe began serving as 
Constituent Services Supervisor for newly-
elected Congresswoman GIFFORDS. In that 
role, he oversaw an extensive constituent advocacy 
program, working directly with the people 
of Arizona’s Eighth Congressional District 
every day. He then served as Congresswoman 
GIFFORDS’ Director of Community Outreach, 
where he organized hundreds of events 
to allow constituents all over southern Arizona 
to meet with Congresswoman GIFFORDS. I 
know how much my colleague, Congresswoman 
GIFFORDS, relied on Gabriel and how 
much she valued their work together. 

Margaret Bowe, a close college friend of 
Gabe, described him as ‘‘a warm, funny, energetic, 
smart, interesting person who was passionate 
about life.’’ She went on to explain 
‘‘Gabe’s purpose, his motivation, his passion, 
was to help people, he believed in the ideals 
of our political system.’’ 

I remember that day well—my thoughts and 
concerns went out to those involved in that 
horrific event but also to my own staff, who 
work extremely hard, putting in long hours to 
serve the constituents of the 9th District of Illinois. 
Every one of them is committed to helping 
people and they are regularly in the same 
role that Gabriel was on that January morning. 
They do not get the recognition that they deserve, 
often enough. 

Our staffs are out there in our communities 
every day, embodying the same values Gabe 
worked so hard for. In remembering Gabe, we 
also must salute the thousands of staffers 
across the country, who keep his memory 
alive by proudly serving their communities and 
country. 

My thoughts and prayers go out to Gabe’s 
family and friends, among them my colleague 
GABRIELLE GIFFORDS, who so deeply mourn 
his tragic death. 

HONORING EMMA H. NEWSOME 

HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
submit the following Proclamation. 

Whereas, Thirty-five years ago a virtuous 
woman of God accepted her calling to serve 
in the Atlanta Field Office of the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development (HUD); and 

Whereas, Mrs. Emma H. Newsome began 
her career working in various positions, she 
rose to the rank of Regional Director’s Liaison 
and has served the citizens well and our community 
has been blessed through her service; 
and 

Whereas, this phenomenal woman has 
shared her time and talents as a Coordinator, 
Deputy Director, Liaison and Motivator, giving 
the citizens of Georgia a person of great 
worth, a fearless leader and a servant to all 
who wants to advance the lives of the citizens 
in our region; and 

Whereas, Mrs. Newsome is formally retiring 
from her governmental career today, she will 
continue to promote civic duty because she is 
a cornerstone in our community that has enhanced 
the lives of thousands for the betterment 
of our District and Nation; and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia has set aside this 
day to honor and recognize Mrs. Emma H. 
Newsome on her retirement from the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development 
(HUD) and to wish her well in her new endeavors; 


Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby proclaim November 4, 
2011 as Mrs. Emma H. Newsome Day in the 
4th Congressional District of Georgia. 

Proclaimed, this 4th day of November, 
2011. 

f 

HONORING MICHAEL D. ‘‘MIKE’’ 
WALDEN 

HON. JEFF DENHAM 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Veterans of Foreign Wars Chowchilla 
Post 9896 Life Member Michael D. ‘‘Mike’’ 
Walden who served his country honorably 
from a very young age. 

Mike was born in Los Angeles in 1946; he 
attended local area schools before enlisting in 
the United States Army in June of 1963, at the 
age of seventeen. He completed his basic 
training at Fort Ord, California, and later completed 
specialized training in armor warfare in 
Fort Knox, Kentucky. Mike was next sent to 
Korea for twelve months for duty with the 2nd 
Battalion of the 10th Calvary, 7th Division at 
Camp Hansen located in the demilitarized 
zone. The unit provided security and conducted 
patrols while observing North Korean 
communist forces across the DMZ. Soon after, 
Mike returned to the States for duty with the 
1st Battalion, 2nd Infantry, and 5th Division. 
After extensive training, the division was 
transitioned into duty with the First Infantry Division, 
known as the ‘‘Big Red One’’. The ‘‘Big 

Red One’’ remains one of the most storied divisions 
of the U.S. Army, having led the way 
for American troops in WWI, and during WWII, 
was the first Army Division to fight the Germans 
on North Africa, Sicily, the beaches of 
Normandy, and the Battle of the Bulge. During 
the summer of 1965, his division was the first 
Army division called to fight in Vietnam. 
Throughout 1965, his unit was involved in significant 
and major combat engagements. 

Mike completed a twelve month tour in Vietnam; 
he returned to the United States in 1966 
and was discharged five days after his twentieth 
birthday. After serving three years and 
two tours in Korea and Vietnam, he was still 
not old enough to legally purchase a beer. For 
his service, he was awarded the National Defense 
Service Medal, the Combat Infantryman’s 
Badge, the Good Conduct Medal, and 
the Korea Defense Medal, among others. 

After his retirement from the U.S. Army, 
Mike graduated from West Valley College and 
St. Mary’s College and worked as a project 
support engineer. He and his wife, Gayla Darlene, 
make their home in Chowchilla with their 
two children. Mike is a Life Member of the 
Chowchilla VFW Post 9896 and an active 
member of his church. 

Mr. Speaker, please join me in thanking Mr. 
Michael D. Walden for his honorable service 
to our great country, and wishing him the best 
of luck and health in his future endeavors. 

f 

HONORING THE LEGACY OF ROSA 
PARKS 

HON. CHARLES B. RANGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor the heroic spirit of one of the most remarkable 
women in our nation’s history by 
celebrating National Transit Tribute to Rosa 
Parks Day. Commonly known as ‘‘the first lady 
of civil rights’’ and ‘‘the mother of the freedom 
movement,’’ Rosa Parks is a heroine who will 
be forever remembered for her courage to 
stand up for what she believed. 

On that fateful December 1st evening in 
1955, Rosa Parks had the strength to refuse 
to sit in the back of the bus, where blacks at 
the time were segregated from white riders in 
the front. By this simple yet heroic protest she 
inspired blacks across America to fight for 
their rights. I am honored to have been part of 
the Civil Rights Movement she helped fuel. 
Because of her vision for equality, America 
has made great strides toward a more perfect 
union. 

It was a great privilege to attend the ceremony 
on October 28, 2005, when our nation 
bestowed Rosa Parks the highest honor by allowing 
her body to lie in honor in the Capitol 
of the United States Congress. She was the 
first American who had not been a government 
official to be paid this tribute. She was 
also the first woman and the second black 
person to lie in honor. 

The story of Rosa Parks is proof that everyone 
in our great democracy, in this case a 42– 
year-old black woman from Montgomery, Alabama, 
can change the course of our country 
and help pave a better tomorrow for future 
generations. I hope we can be inspired by 
Rosa Parks to continue our fight for equality 
and justice for all Americans. 


E2152 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2011 

DETENTION OF ALAN P. GROSS 

HON. JESSE L. JACKSON, JR. 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JACKSON of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to call for the immediate release of Alan 

P. Gross on humanitarian grounds. Mr. Gross, 
a 62-year-old international development specialist, 
has been held in a Cuban detention facility 
for the last two years. Mr. Gross has 
worked in community and international development 
for over 25 years and his work has 
positively impacted the lives of people in over 
50 countries, including the West Bank, Gaza, 
Iraq, Afghanistan, Haiti, Gambia, Kenya, South 
Africa, and Ghana. 
At the time of his arrest, Mr. Gross was 
working on behalf of the US Agency for International 
Development with the peaceful, non-
dissident Jewish community to help them establish 
an Intranet and improve access to the 
Internet. Logically, Mr. Gross brought basic 
technological equipment with him to assist in 
achieving that goal. Although he followed all 
appropriate procedures and declared the 
equipment in customs, Cuban authorities 
would use unsupported claims of illegality of 
this equipment as grounds for his imprisonment. 


Shortly after his arrest on December 3, 
2009, Cuban military officials placed Mr. Gross 
in a maximum-security military hospital, and 
held him for 14 months without charge. In 
February of this year, he was finally charged 
with ‘‘acts to undermine the integrity and independence’’ 
of Cuba. After a mere two day trial, 
he was convicted, and sentenced to 15 years 
in prison. His appeal to the Cuban Supreme 
Court was denied on August 5. 

Mr. Speaker, Alan Gross is an elderly development 
worker, not a spy. He doesn’t speak 
Spanish, making him an unlikely subject in the 
subversion of the Cuban government. It is insulting 
to suggest that Mr. Gross deserves a 
15 year sentence for possessing ‘‘illegal’’ 
equipment that Cuban authorities could have 
seized upon his entrance into the country. But 
these elements of this gross miscarriage of 
justice pale in comparison to the humanitarian 
affront of keeping him in Cuban custody. 

Mr. Gross’ health has deteriorated tremendously 
during his incarceration. He has lost 
approximately 100 pounds and suffers from a 
number of serious health issues, some of 
which may become permanent. In addition, his 
family’s health and financial problems have 
placed him under extreme mental strain. 

In August of 2010, Mr. Gross’ 26-year-old 
daughter was diagnosed with breast cancer. 
She underwent, and is currently recovering 
from a double mastectomy. His wife, Judy, recently 
underwent surgery as well, missing a 
long period of work due to her illness. His 89-
year-old mother was diagnosed with inoperable 
cancer in February of this year. This, 
combined with Mr. Gross’ continued incarceration, 
has resulted in tremendous financial 
hardship for his entire family, and his inability 
to support them has greatly pained Mr. Gross. 

In light of these events and his unjust sentence, 
I call on the Cuban Government to immediately 
release Mr. Gross so he may receive 
medical treatment and help his family 
through this tumultuous time. 

CONGRATULATING THE 
GLENN HIGH SCHOOL 
BOWL TEAM 
JOHN 
SPELL 
HON. JOE DONNELLY 
OF INDIANA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DONNELLY of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to congratulate the John Glenn High 
School Spell Bowl team of Walkerton, Indiana 
for winning the Class II Indiana Academic 
Spell Bowl held on November 12, 2011 at Purdue 
University. Their score of 84 out of a possible 
90 far surpassed runner up Plymouth 
High Schools’ score of 75. 

The spellers practiced three times a week in 
preparation for their fifth consecutive state 
championship. The team consisted of Elly 
Alexander, Ariel Clark, Jake Coday, Ann 
Heckman-Davis, Cole Jacobson, Miranda 
Kafantaris, Kim Lord, Chris Mahank, Gabby 
Marek, Erin Patterson, Maddy Piedra, Paige 
Reed, Holly Rowe, Rebecca Shoue, J.J. 
Silvey, Justina Weiss, and Karena Weiss. 

The team is coached by Paul Hernandez 
who has led the school to 16 state titles in 25 
years. This outstanding achievement was recognized 
by the Indiana Association of School 
Principals who named Mr. Hernandez the 
2011 Academic Coach of the Year. The only 
coach to win state Spell Bowl Championships 
in two different divisions, he is the English Department 
Chairman, tutors the Academic Decathlon 
Team and supervises the nationally 
recognized high school literary magazine, 
‘‘Aerial.’’ 

Again, I rise to offer my congratulations to 
the members of the John Glenn High School 
Spell Bowl team and their dedicated coach for 
their extraordinary accomplishments throughout 
the competition. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. WILLIAM L. OWENS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. OWENS. Mr. Speaker, on November 
4th, 2011, I missed a series of votes to attend 
the Change of Command ceremony at Fort 
Drum, New York. If I had been present, I 
would have voted as follows: 

On Rollcall 829, Ordering the Previous 
Question providing for consideration of the bill 

(H.R. 2838) to authorize appropriations for the 
Coast Guard for fiscal years 2012 through 
2015, and for other purposes, I would have 
voted Nay. 
On Rollcall 830, Providing for consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 2838) to authorize appropriations 
for the Coast Guard for fiscal years 2012 
through 2015, and for other purposes, I would 
have voted Nay. 

On Rollcall 831, To facilitate the hosting in 
the United States of the 34th Americas Cup by 
authorizing certain eligible vessels to participate 
in activities related to the competition, 
and for other purposes, I would have voted 
Yea. 

On Rollcall 832, Cummings of Maryland 
Amendment No. 3, I would have voted Yea. 
On Rollcall 833, Thompson of Mississippi 
Amendment No. 4, I would have voted Nay. 

On Rollcall 834, Napolitano of California 
Amendment No. 6, I would have voted Yea. 

On Rollcall 835, Bishop of New York 
Amendment No. 7, I would have voted Yea. 

On Rollcall 836, Slaughter of New York 
Amendment No. 8, I would have voted Yea. 

f 

IN RECOGNITION OF TIME 
WARNER CABLE 

HON. SUE WILKINS MYRICK 

OF NORTH CAROLINA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mrs. MYRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
commend Time Warner Cable for its investment 
in local television news coverage, specifically 
for opening a Washington, D.C., news 
bureau that will cover stories and events here 
in Washington that are important to the communities 
its 14 local news channels serve 
throughout the country. 

Mr. Speaker, TWC is dedicating significant 
resources to high quality local news channels 
that provide critical local news, weather, traffic 
and sports coverage in the communities that 
they serve. We live in an age when local television 
news is disappearing and hometown 
newspapers are fast becoming a thing of the 
past. However, in the Charlotte area stations 
remain committed to reporting in-depth local 
stories. It is important to make note of the rare 
times when we see investment in local news 
coverage. I applaud Time Warner Cable for 
recognizing the importance of local news, for 
investing in it and creating jobs while providing 
this critical service to their customers and my 
constituents. Certainly it is with more local 
news coverage that we will have a better informed 
citizenry, which can only advance our 
great country. 

f 

HONORING THE UNIFICATION OF 
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMUNICATIONS 
UNION AND THE 
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION 
OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE 
WORKERS 

HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor the January 1, 2012 unification of the 
Transportation Communications Union (TCU) 
and the International Association of Machinists 
and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW). 

These two distinguished unions, with railroad 
roots, are on course to become one 
strong voice for hundreds of thousands of mid-
dle-class working men and women across 
America. 

In 1888, 19 machinists meeting in a locomotive 
pit in Atlanta, Georgia formed what is 
now IAMAW, commonly known as the ‘‘Fighting 
Machinists.’’ Throughout their 123 year 
history, the Fighting Machinists have grown to 
represent workers in several industries, including: 
aerospace, transportation, government, 
automotive, defense, and woodworking. 

Today’s TCU is also one union made of 
many. At its core is the union founded in 
1899, which became the Brotherhood of Railway 
Clerks. In 1919, the union became the 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E2153 

Brotherhood of Railway and Steamship Clerks, 
Freight Handlers, Express and Station Employees. 
To further reflect the diversity of the 
union’s membership, the delegates to the 
1987 Convention voted to become TCU. 

By joining the ranks of the Machinists, TCU 
will help strengthen the organization’s membership 
and the overall labor movement. For 
more than a century, both TCU and IAMAW 
have stood for the welfare and prosperity of 
their members. Today, these unions continue 
to fight on behalf of their members who exemplify 
the values of hard work, faith, family, and 
community. 

This unification not only brings together two 
unions, but also two dedicated presidents— 
Tom Buffenbarger and Bob Scardelletti. Tom 
Buffenbarger began his career as a journeyman 
tool and die maker at General Electric’s 
jet engine plant in Evendale, Ohio. In 1997, he 
became the youngest IAMAW President in its 
history. Bob Scardelletti, a life-long railroader, 
started out as a yard clerk in Cleveland with 
the New York Central Railroad in 1967. In 
1971, he took on his first union position and 
by 1991 was elected TCU president and has 
been re-elected four times. 

TCU and IAMAW were fundamental in building 
the American middle-class, and have a 
vital role today in preserving the American 
dream for working families. Their combined 
strength will provide continued leadership 
throughout the labor movement, particularly in 
the transportation industry. It is my pleasure to 
honor this historic event and congratulate their 
members as they join forces under the new 
TCU/IAMAW. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. CHARLES A. GONZALEZ 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. GONZALEZ. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall 
No. 860, 861, and 862. Had I been present, I 
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on all three. 

f 

HONORING LIZ COVENTRY 

HON. SCOTT GARRETT 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. GARRETT. Mr. Speaker, today I extend 
my deepest condolences and heartfelt sympathies 
to the family of Liz Coventry. Liz 
passed away on October 26, 2011, after waging 
a valiant battle against cancer. Throughout 
many years of my public service—from my 
Congressional campaign days to my early 
days as a U.S. Congressman, Liz was an 
unwaveringly loyal and exceptionally focused 
member of my team. Whether working on 
casework for constituents, tirelessly advocating 
on behalf of veterans, spearheading the 
annual Congressional Art Competition for my 
office, or organizing various special projects, 
Liz took on every endeavor with passion. I 
cannot imagine the early days of my office 
without her. 

Yet far beyond being an employee, Liz was 
also a friend. And as anyone who knew Liz 
would undoubtedly agree, to be able to call 

her ‘‘friend’’ is truly an honor. While Liz’s daily 
presence will be acutely missed by those who 
knew and loved her, the memory of her friendship 
and her legacy will remain. 

I deeply appreciate Liz for her friendship 
and support, and I honor her for her service to 
our state and our nation. 

f 

A TRIBUTE TO RAY A. HARRIS, 

RAMIE L. HARRIS, AND SHEY M. 

HARRIS 

HON. DAN BURTON 

OF INDIANA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. BURTON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to pay tribute to the lives of Ray A. Harris, 
Ramie L. Harris and Shey M. Harris, of 
Marion, Indiana who perished in a tragic plane 
crash on November 26, 2011. Ray was 46, 
Ramie was 21, and Shey was 20. I join the 
Marion community in expressing my deepest 
condolences to Ray’s wife, Sherry, and his 
son, Blake, who are left to carry on in this 
world without them. In one tragic day, Sherry 
lost her husband and two daughters. Likewise, 
Blake lost his father and two sisters. Other 
survivors include Ray’s parents and in-laws 
and numerous aunts and cousins. Chris 
Backus, a student at Indiana Wesleyan University 
also died in the crash. 

As a businessman Ray was a pioneer of 
sorts in Marion. He moved his car dealership 
known as Ray Harris Chrysler Jeep from its 
established location to a new location at Ind. 
18 and 1–69. He knew the risks associated 
with the move but he held a deep desire to 
make Marion a better place and because Ray 
was a visionary he knew the new location 
would grow into something good and benefit 
the community around it. Ray was a true community 
leader. He was a supporter of the Marion 
Giants; served 8 years as the President of 
the Marion Board of Works; was a member of 
the Meshingomesia Country Club, the Aero 
Club, Marion Pilots Club, and the Elks. Ray 
was a skilled hunter and fisherman. One of his 
favorite events was the annual Community 
School for the Arts, CSA, Go-Kart race. 

As busy as Ray was in business and in the 
community, his family always came first. Ray 
was an attentive father and husband, rarely 
missing one of his children’s events. Ramie 
was a 2009 graduate of Marion High School 
where she played soccer, basketball, and tennis. 
Ramie’s soccer jersey number will be retired 
in her honor. Ramie also played in various 
PAL club sports and was the recipient of 
numerous scholarships. As a student at Marion 
High School, Ramie was active in Youth 
for Christ. She was also active in God’s House 
Ministries’ Children’s Ministry Department. 
Ramie was a junior at Wheaton College, majoring 
in pre-med. 

Shey was a graduate of Eastbrook High 
School after having attended Marion High 
School until her junior year. Shey loved to 
dance and was majoring in dance with a minor 
in business at Anderson University at the time 
of her death. Shey attended and later taught 
at the Community School of the Arts and 
taught gymnastics at Mid America. Like her father 
and sister, Shey’s love for the Lord guided 
her in her daily life. She was involved in 
the liturgical dance program at her church and 

the children’s ministry department at College 
Wesleyan Church. 

Ray, Ramie, and Shey will be forever remembered 
by all who knew them as a loving 
family who devoted their lives and talents to 
community and God. In their death their memory 
will live on through the CSA Ray Harris 
Family Memorial Endowment Fund that was 
established at the Community Foundation of 
Grant County as a way for the community to 
honor the family. The money from the endowment 
will go to the organization for the Shey 
Harris Dance Scholarship, which will be 
awarded to a student from CSA. The Harris 
family were key supporters of the organization. 
Shey distinguished herself as a dancer and 
choreographer by the choreographing the first 
commercial CSA did for the Gorman Center 
for Orthodontics and being the youngest person 
to teach at the organization at the age of 

14. Ramie danced at the school and danced 
in the first show that CSA ever did. Shey’s 
and Ramie’s surviving brother Blake was the 
CSA’s ‘‘Go Arts! Go Karts!’’ 2010 champion 
when he raced for his father’s business. Ray’s 
wife, Sherry, is also active in CSA events and 
is a former board member. 
The Harris family attended God’s House 
Ministries and by all accounts, their lives were 
guided by their love for the Lord. At times of 
deep sorrow and grief, I am comforted by 
Psalm 23. 

PSALM 23—A PSALM OF DAVID 
The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want. 
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: 
he leadeth me beside the still waters. 
He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the 
paths of righteousness for his name’s 
sake. 
Yea, though I walk through the valley of the 
shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for 
thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff 
they comfort me. 
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence 
of mine enemies: thou anointest 
my head with oil; my cup runneth over. 
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me 
all the days of my life: and I will dwell 
in the house of the LORD forever. 

Today, I pray for all of God’s love and healing 
to be bestowed upon the Harris family. 

f 

HONORING BALD ROCK BAPTIST 
CHURCH 

HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
submit the following Proclamation: 

Whereas, Bald Rock Baptist Church has 
been and continues to be a beacon of light to 
our county for the past one hundred fifty 
years; and 

Whereas, Pastor Christopher Shipp and the 
members of the Bald Rock Baptist Church 
family today continues to uplift and inspire 
those in our county; and 

Whereas, the Bald Rock Baptist Church 
family has been and continues to be a place 
where citizens are touched spiritually, mentally 
and physically through outreach ministries and 
community partnership to aid in building up 
our District; and 

Whereas, this remarkable and tenacious 
Church of God has given hope to the hopeless, 
fed the needy and empowered our community 
for the past one hundred fifty (150) 


E2154 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2011 

years, being Rockdale County’s first African 
American Congregation; and 

Whereas, Bald Rock has produced many 
spiritual warriors, people of compassion, people 
of great courage, fearless leaders and 
servants to all, but most of all visionaries who 
have shared not only with their Church, but 
with Rockdale County their passion to spread 
the gospel of Jesus Christ; and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia has set aside this 
day to honor and recognize the Bald Rock 
Baptist Church family for their leadership and 
service to our District on this the 150th Anniversary 
of their founding; 

Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby proclaim November 13, 
2011 as Bald Rock Baptist Church Day In the 
4th Congressional District of Georgia. 

Proclaimed, this 13th day of November, 
2011. 

f 

HONORING JOHN WILKINSON 

HON. JEFF DENHAM 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Veterans of Foreign Wars Chowchilla 
Post 9896 Life Member John Wilkinson, who 
retired from the United States Marine Corps 
as a Master Sergeant in 1974. 

John A. Wilkinson was born in Taft, California 
in November 1935. During his high 
school years, John worked during the summer 
months and after school in the oil fields handling 
drill toll stabilizers and as a truck driver. 
In 1953, he enlisted in the United States Marine 
Corps. During his service in the U.S. Marine 
Corps, he served on seven aircraft carriers, 
twelve different shore installations, and 
duty with all branches of service, as well as 
Civil Service Personnel. He traveled to twenty 
foreign countries and saw duty with seven 
military forces. Throughout his duration of 
service, John succeeded in many roles. In 
1957, he was selected for aviation schooling 
and completed Aircraft Fundamentals and Jet 
Engine Mechanics courses and was station at 
Los Alamitos Naval Air Station where he 
served as a crew chief performing scheduled 
and non-scheduled maintenance on all aircraft 
systems. In 1965, John assumed a two year 
post as a Drill Instructor at Marine Corps Recruit 
Depot in San Diego. He was deployed 
with his unit to Vietnam in 1970 where he 
served with H&MS–11, which supported Marine 
aircraft missions fighting the North Vietnamese 
and Viet Cong forces. Master Sergeant 
Wilkinson received numerous decorations 
and awards for his service, including the 
National Defense Medal, seven awards of the 
Good Conduct Medal, Vietnamese Service 
Medal with star, and the Meritorious Unit Commendation. 


Upon his retirement from the military, John 
earned an Associate of Arts Degree from 
West Hills College and a Bachelor of Art Degree 
in Social Science and a teaching credential 
from California State University, Fresno. 
For thirteen years, John continued his legacy 
of public service as a civics, economics, and 
history teacher at Chowchilla Union High 
School. John and his late wife, Veronica, 
raised three children. He is now a grandfather 

of nine and a great-grandfather of ten. He 
makes his home in Los Lunas, New Mexico. 

Mr. Speaker, please join me in thanking Mr. 
John A. Wilkinson for his honorable service to 
our great country, and wishing him the best of 
luck and health in his future endeavors. 

f 

PAYING TRIBUTE TO THE SMITHSONIAN 
INSTITUTES FREEDOM 
SISTER’S TRAVELING EXHIBITION 


HON. CHARLES B. RANGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, ahead of tomorrow’s 
announcement, today I rise to recognize 
the empowering Freedom Sister’s Exhibition 
being showcased in The Malcolm X and Dr. 
Betty Shabazz Memorial and Educational Center 
in my Congressional District. The Exhibition 
will be officially on display starting February 
4 thru April 22, 2012. 

Often when the civil rights movement is discussed, 
male figureheads whose visibility in 
boycotts, legal proceedings, and mass demonstrations 
dominated media coverage in the 
1950’s and ’60s are the first memories we 
recollect. Sometimes missing and often forgotten 
from these memoirs are a group of extraordinary 
women who, while less prominent 
in the media, shaped much of the core and 
spirit of civil rights movement. 

The Freedom Sister’s Exhibition shines a 
light on the many women that at times history 
seems to overlook. As the Member of Congress 
whose district encompasses the historical 
community of Harlem and in response to 
an overwhelming sentiment from both my local 
Education and Arts & Culture constituencies, it 
was enormously important to me that the 
Smithsonian bring the traveling exhibition to 
my beloved community. Nine out of the twenty 
women being paid tribute to, have walked the 
streets of the great village of Harlem. Constance 
Baker Motley, Harriet Tubman, Ella 
Baker, Charlayne Hunter-Gault, Dr. Betty 
Shabazz, Sonia Sanchez, Mary McLeod Bethune, 
Shirley Chisholm, and Ida B. Wells all 
dared to dream the impossible: equality for all. 

The exhibition also pays tribute to the success 
of such notable women as Coretta Scott 
King, Rosa Parks, Barbara Johnson, Fannie 
Lou Hamer, Myrlie Evers-Williams, Kathleen 
Cleaver, Mary Church Terrell, Septima 
Poinsette Clark, Dorothy Height, and C. 
Delores Tucker. I cannot stress the importance 
of such a marvelous showcase of these 
important women. The Civil rights movement 
was spearheaded by many exceptional men 
such as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm 
X, but these women among many others 
also fought for equality with a commitment to 
strengthen our Nation and making a difference 
for all Americans. 

Let me thank Jacob Morris, Executive Director 
of the Harlem Historical Society for bringing 
this great exhibition to my attention 
through my District Representative, Socrates 
Solano. According to the information imparted 
to my office by the Harlem Historical Society, 
it was my understanding that New York was 
not initially considered as a venue for this 
wonderful traveling exhibit’s National tour. Let 
me also thank Zead Ramadan, Chair of the 

Malcolm X and Dr. Betty Shabazz Memorial 
and Educational Center for agreeing to host 
this truly historic exhibition. 

Mr. Speaker, like Harlem, there are those in 
our country that ardently desire that its sons 
and daughters as well as our teachers and 
educators are given the opportunity to appreciate 
and learn more about these great 
women of courage who have had such profound 
historical significance. I ask that you 
and my distinguished colleagues, with the 
gratitude of our fellow citizens, join me in commending 
the Smithsonian Institute for paying 
tribute to our beloved Freedom Sisters through 
their traveling exhibition. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO JANE AND WILLIAM 

MCQUAIN AND THE WORK OF 

THE DWELLING PLACE 

HON. CHRIS VAN HOLLEN 

OF MARYLAND 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to remember two of my constituents whose 
lives were recently tragically cut short. Ms. 
Jane McQuain, 51, and her son William, 11, 
were found murdered on October 18, 2011, 
triggering shock and pain throughout my congressional 
district. 

Since 2006, Ms. McQuain and William had 
been receiving assistance from an outstanding 
organization, The Dwelling Place, whose mission 
is to provide housing opportunities and 
support services for homeless families in 
Montgomery County. The McQuains were one 
of many families helped by this program. 

Ms. McQuain was an extraordinary example 
of the success that can be achieved through 
hard work and dedication. In 2006, she came 
to The Dwelling Place as a homeless single 
mother, seeking a better life for herself and 
her son. Two years later, she graduated from 
the program with permanent housing and a 
steady job. Ms. McQuain immediately sought 
to give back to the community and devoted 
her time to helping families in crisis who were 
facing similar situations. She often returned to 
The Dwelling Place to share her experiences 
and to advise families on how to succeed during 
and after the program. Her son, William, 
had a bright future. His friends and family describe 
him as a vibrant and imaginative boy 
who loved sports, animals, and video games. 
Both Ms. McQuain and William were extraordinary 
individuals, who had successfully overcome 
great adversity. 

The Dwelling Place has been helping the 
homeless since 1988, when a group of activists, 
appalled at the rising levels of homelessness 
in Montgomery County, Maryland, came 
together to find a solution to this growing problem. 
The organization incorporates various aspects 
of affordability, length of stay, and life 
skills, striving to help homeless families 
achieve self-sufficiency. Families are assisted 
to develop the necessary skills they need for 
a brighter and more prosperous future. The 
Dwelling Place is not merely a place for families 
to live; it is a place for families to thrive. 
It provides families with critical training in parenting, 
communication literacy, and networking 
techniques. It also counsels individual families 
to work towards a strong, united, and independent 
family unit. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E2155 

Thanks to The Dwelling Place, Ms. McQuain 
was able to provide her son with a happy and 
stable life. Although their lives were brutally 
cut short, their resilience and ability to overcome 
hardship will never be forgotten, and 
they will continue to inspire the many families 
that face similar challenges. 

My congressional district is fortunate to 
have The Dwelling Place providing support to 
our community, so that families in crisis can 
establish new lives without fear and with the 
potential and support for a bright future. 

I ask my colleagues to join me in remembering 
Jane and William McQuain and in saluting 
the mission of The Dwelling Place and 
its dedication to assisting the homeless. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE COMMUNITY 
ADOLESCENT AND EDUCATION 
CENTER OF HOLYOKE, MASSACHUSETTS 


HON. JOHN W. OLVER 

OF MASSACHUSETTS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. OLVER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize the invaluable contributions that the 
Community Adolescent and Education, Care, 
Center, Inc. of Holyoke, Massachusetts makes 
to the community by improving the lives of 
teen mothers and their children. 

Among the Care Center’s core beliefs is that 
people living in poverty should be exposed to 
the same intellectual stimulus as those who 
are financially well off and that they will thrive 
if they receive it. The Center, therefore, works 
extremely hard to provide young mothers with 
high level programming in education, the arts 
and humanities, and athletics. These programs 
have been incredibly effective with up 
to 85 percent of graduates going on to college 
and many launching careers in social services, 
government and medicine. 

On November 2, 2011, First Lady Michelle 
Obama presented the Care Center with the 
prestigious National Arts and Humanities 
Youth Program Award for its innovative humanities 
courses. I have been a proud supporter 
of the Center and its vital work, and I 
cannot think of a more deserving institution in 
my district. 

Over 500 organizations from across the 
country were nominated for the award which, 
administered by the President’s Committee on 
the Arts and Humanities, is considered to be 
the highest honor for such programs in the nation. 
The Care Center is one of 12 after-school 
and out-of-school programs to receive the 
award and it was, in particular, recognized for 
its exceptional humanities programming. This 
included the Clemente Course in the Humanities, 
a free college course focusing on moral 
philosophy, art history, literature, writing, and 
American history; Introduction to Humanities, a 
college course offered in partnership with 
Greenfield Community College; and Nautilus 
II, an annual anthology of poetry and art by 
Center teen mothers. 

The Care Center is dedicated to helping 
young parents with low incomes obtain access 
to an excellent education. Center Executive 
Director Anne Teschner and her dedicated 
staff, through their revolutionary programming, 
have opened doors leading to successful futures 
for hundreds of teens and their children. 

I commend the Care Center on these efforts 
and am confident that this national recognition 
can be a catalyst that allows it to help hundreds 
more in years to come. 

f 

ALAN GROSS 

HON. JAMES A. HIMES 

OF CONNECTICUT 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, for the last two 
years, Alan Gross, a 62-year old international 
development specialist and social worker, has 
been incarcerated in a Cuban prison. Today 
marks the two-year anniversary of his imprisonment. 
Alan traveled to Cuba on behalf of 
USAID to help the country’s Jewish community 
expand its access to the Internet and establish 
an Intranet. This was a humanitarian 
mission, a mission to help a small and peaceful 
community improve its access to and use 
of the Internet. Alan’s presence and actions 
posed no threat to the Cuban government. 

And yet, Alan has been held in a maximum-
security military hospital facility in Cuba since 
December 2009. He has been sentenced to 
15 years in prison, charged with ‘‘acts to undermine 
the integrity and independence’’ of 
Cuba. Alan’s appeal to the Cuban Supreme 
Court was denied on August 5, 2011, formally 
ending his legal options for release. 

Mr. Speaker, today I rise and join my colleagues 
in calling for the immediate and unconditional 
release of Alan Gross. Alan Gross 
is not a criminal, he is a humanitarian aid 
worker. Alan Gross is a man whose life work 
has positively impacted people across the 
world, including in the West Bank, Gaza, Iraq, 
Afghanistan, Africa and Haiti. Alan Gross is a 
husband, a father and a son who should be 
released and reunited with his family immediately. 


f 

HONORING TONY ROYAL 

HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
submit the following Proclamation: 

Whereas, reaching the age of 50 years is a 
remarkable milestone; and 

Whereas, Mr. Tony Royal was born in Savannah, 
Georgia on November 20, 1961 and 
is celebrating that milestone today; and 

Whereas, Mr. Royal has accomplished 
much in his years, but the two things he is 
most proud of is being the husband of Leslie 
and father of Antasha and Anthony; and 

Whereas, he is a stellar businessman, a 
model citizen and a community partner who 
not only talks the talk, but walks the walk; and 

Whereas, Mr. Royal has been blessed with 
a long, happy life, devoted to God, family and 
community; and 

Whereas, Mr. Royal is celebrating his 50th 
birthday with his family and friends, his good 
will has touched the lives of persons everywhere 
across the nation in particularly the 
Fourth District of Georgia; and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia has set aside this 

day to honor and recognize Mr. Royal for an 
exemplary life which is an inspiration to all, 

Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby proclaim November 20, 
2011 as Mr. Tony Royal Day in the 4th Congressional 
District of Georgia. 

Proclaimed, this 20th day of November, 
2011. 

f 

HONORING JOHNNY CHANDLER 

HON. JEFF DENHAM 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Veterans of Foreign Wars Chowchilla 
Post 9896 Life Member Johnny Chandler who 
served his country honorably in the United 
States Air Force. 

After graduating from Chowchilla High 
School in 1998, Johnny Chandler enlisted in 
the United States Air Force. He completed his 
basic training at Lackland Air Force Base in 
Texas, and later completed Enlisted Aircrew 
Training at Sheppard Air Force Base in Texas. 
After completing technical surveillance specialty 
training in Mississippi, Washington, and 
Oklahoma, he was assigned to the Airborne 
Air Control Squadron, one of the three operational 
E–3 Sentry (AWACS) squadrons in the 
continental United States. The primary mission 
of the 965th was Operation Southern Watch in 
the skies over Southern Iraq. The mission’s 
objectives were to search for, track, and report 
enemy aircraft contacts to ground and airborne 
assets and intercept them if they ventured 
into the No-Fly Zone. While with the 
965th, he participated in numerous Red Flag 
training missions, which are the Air Force’s 
equivalent of the Navy’s Top Gun School. 

Johnny returned to the United States about 
a year later and was subsequently selected to 
be one of the first Airborne Surveillance Technicians 
to participate in the resurrection of the 
old 960th World War II bomber squad. While 
at the Base Exchange in Incirlik Air Force 
Base in Turkey, Johnny watched the television 
monitors as the first airliner impacted the 
World Trade Center on September 11, 2011. 
While with the 960th, he completed two tours 
with the Operation Northern Watch in the 
Northern part of Iraq, guiding American and allied 
aircraft to targets and monitoring enemy 
air defenses and missile sites. He had over 
1,000 flight hours on the E–3 Sentry including 
300 combat hours. In 2003, he was promoted 
to Staff Sergeant and was selected for cross-
training in the Air Force Combat Control. 

Johnny retired from the U.S. Air Force in 
2005 and enrolled in Oklahoma State University’s 
engineering program. He graduated in 
May 2010 with a Bachelors of Science in 
Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. During 
his academic career, Johnny used his engineering 
expertise to design a multitude of 
robotic unmanned aerial and ground systems. 
He recently accepted a position as an Aerospace 
Engineer at the Naval Surface War 
Center where he will be working with high-
powered lasers, rail guns, conventional weapons, 
and unmanned aircraft 

Mr. Speaker, please join me in thanking Mr. 
Johnny Chandler for his honorable service to 
our great country, and wishing him the best of 
luck and health in his future endeavors. 


E2156 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2011 

COMMENDING REP. GONZALEZ’S 
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP 

HON. CHARLES B. RANGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize the service of Congressman 
CHARLES GONZALEZ. I am sad that after seven 
great terms in the House, Congressman 
CHARLES GONZALEZ will not be seeking reelection. 
Picking right up from where his father left 
off, CHARLES has been a tremendous leader 
for the people of the Texas 20th Congressional 
District and the United States. 

CHARLES and I share the honor of representing 
large Hispanic communities. As the 
Chairman of the Hispanic Caucus and his tenure 
in Congress, he has fought fiercely to better 
the lives of all Hispanics in America. We 
both proudly co-sponsored the DREAM Act. 
We both share the belief that everyone in 
America deserves the equal opportunity to 
pursue the American Dream. 

CHARLES and his compassion will be greatly 
missed. I wish him and his family all the best 
and more. 

f 

REGARDING THE IMPRISONMENT 
OF ALAN GROSS 

HON. HENRY A. WAXMAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
with deep concern over the plight of an American 
citizen overseas. Today marks two years 
that Alan Gross, a 62-year old international 
development specialist who has worked for 
over two decades helping people in troubled 
areas across the globe, has been held in a 
Cuban prison. 

For the first fourteen months of his captivity, 
Mr. Gross was held without charge. In February 
of this year, he was charged with ‘‘acts 
to undermine the integrity and independence’’ 
of the State, then given a two-day trial and 
sentenced to 15 years in prison, his appeal 
denied. 

Mr. Gross was in Cuba on behalf of USAID. 
He was there to help the country’s small Jewish 
community establish an intranet and improve 
its access to the internet. His presence 
and actions were not meant to pose a threat 
or danger to the Cuban government. Since 
being incarcerated, he has lost approximately 
100 pounds, his health is deteriorating, and 
two immediate family members, his mother 
and daughter, have been diagnosed with cancer. 


His 15-year sentence is absurd, and his 
continuing incarceration is inhumane. I urge 
my colleagues to join me in requesting that 
the Cuban government release Mr. Gross on 
humanitarian grounds as quickly as is possible. 


67TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 
BATTLE OF COLMAR POCKET 

HON. GEOFF DAVIS 

OF KENTUCKY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DAVIS of Kentucky. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in recognition of the upcoming 67th anniversary 
of the Battle of Colmar Pocket. 

The Battle of the Colmar Pocket was fought 
between January 22 and February 9, 1945, to 
liberate the last major French city occupied by 
the German Army. The ferocious preliminary 
fighting which formed the Colmar Pocket 
began after the arrival of U.S. 7th Army and 
1st French Army forces at Strasbourg, north of 
Colmar, on November 23rd and Mulhouse, 
south of Colmar on November 25th, 1944. 
These Armies, under command of the 6th 
Army Group under Lieutenant General Jacob 

L. Devers, had fought their way through the 
Vosges Mountains to reach these cities beginning 
in mid-September, and were the first military 
force in history to successfully do so. 
The 1st French Army, commanded by General 
Jean de Lattre de Tassigny, had the mission 
to clear the Pocket and liberate Colmar, 
destroying the German forces in the Pocket or 
driving their remainder across the Rhine. Initially, 
the 36th Infantry Division, under Major 
General John Dahlquist, arrived at Selestat on 
December 4, 1944, fixing the northern shoulder 
of the Pocket. Under French command, 
the 36th Infantry Division fought its way south 
to the vicinity of Kaysersberg, Ostheim, 
Mittelwihr, and Bennwihr, in frigid winter 
weather, where the division fought off fanatical 
German counterattacks launched in support of 
the German Ardennes Offensive, the Battle of 
the Bulge. In mid-December this stalwart division 
was withdrawn from the Colmar sector to 
rest and refurbish after its long, debilitating 
campaign through the Vosges. For the fighting 
to collapse the Pocket, two 36th Infantry Division 
soldiers received the Medal of Honor, 
Sergeant Ellis R. Weicht and T/SGT Bernard 

P. Bell. 
Major General Iron Mike O’Daniel’s 3rd Infantry 
Division then under acting Division 
Commander Brigadier General Robert N. 
Young, which had also fought its way as part 
of 7th Army through the Vosges Mountains to 
Strasbourg, was attached to II Corps of the 
1st French Army under Major General Aime 
de Goislard de Monsabert, and in mid-December 
continued the fight to collapse the northern 
section of the Pocket, seizing Kaysersberg, 
Sigolsheim, Mittelwihr, and Bennwihr and the 
dominating high ground of Hill 355 above 
Sigolsheim and Hill 216 outside Bennwihr in 
the final two weeks of December 1944. For 
their intrepid and gallant actions in the fighting 
between December 15 and January 21, 1945, 
the following 3td Infantry Division soldiers 
were awarded the Medal of Honor: 1LT 
Charles P. Murray, Jr.; 1LT Eli Whitely; LTC 
Keith L. Ware; T/SGT Gus Kefurt; and T/SGT 
Russell Dunham. 

As this difficult fighting was taking place, 
other 1st French Army units were pressing remaining 
German units in the Vosges Mountains 
at the westernmost extent of the Pocket, 
as well as in the south near Mulhouse. The 
tough fighting and harsh winter weather had 
greatly worn down the French, and it was determined 
further U.S. reinforcement was need


ed to enable our valiant allies to finally collapse 
the Pocket. The first to arrive were the 
soldiers of Major General Norman D. Cota’s 
28th Infantry Division, which had fought hard 
in the Bulge. They arrived on January 19th, 
taking over the 3rd Infantry Division’s sector in 
the Kaysersberg valley. 

On January 22nd, the 3rd Infantry Division, 
now under MG O’Daniel, with attached 254th 
Infantry Regiment of the 63rd Infantry Division 
and reinforced by a combat command of the 
5th French Armored Division, launched the II 
Corps main effort to breach enemy defenses 
protecting the Colmar Canal and to isolate 
Colmar from the Rhine River by seizing the 
bridge at Neuf-Brisach. January 22nd found 
then Lieutenant Colonel Lloyd B. Ramsey from 
Somerset, Kentucky, in command of the 3rd 
Battalion, 7th Infantry. He had commanded the 
battalion since taking command in the Anzio 
beach head in February 1944, and had commanded 
it for Operation Dragoon, the invasion 
of Southern France, the Southern France 
campaign, and through the Vosges. Leading 
his battalion across the ill River, through minefields 
against dug-in enemy machine gun positions 
south of the village of Guemar in a night 
attack, Ramsey showed outstanding leadership 
and gallantry which led to the award of 
the Silver Star. Despite being wounded by 
enemy shell fragments, he ensured his battalion 
continued advancing in the face of stubborn 
resistance, breaking through the enemy 
positions and enabling the rest of the division 
to drive south. 

Ramsey would continue his sterling combat 
service and go on to achieve the rank of Major 
General, and commanded the AMERICAL Division 
in Vietnam from 1969 until 1970. He 
was severely injured in a helicopter crash in 
Vietnam and eventually was forced to retire for 
medical reasons in 1974. MG Ramsey is a 
proud son of Kentucky, and a member of the 
University of Kentucky Hall of Fame. 

The 3rd Infantry Division’s dogged attack 
and imaginative scheme of maneuver enabled 
it to reach and cross the Colmar Canal the 
night of January 29–30 after a week of very 
heavy fighting. This combat included a serious 
incident at the bridge across 111 at the 
Maison Rouge where the failure of the bridge 
resulted in isolated battalions of the 30th and 
15th Infantry Regiments defending unsupported 
against severe enemy armored counterattacks. 
For actions during January 22nd 
through the 26th, two Medals of Honor would 
be awarded to 3rd Infantry Division soldiers, 
PFC Jose F. Valdez and 2LT Audie L. Murphy. 


The XXI Corps, commanded by Major General 
Frank W. Milburn, took command of the 
3rd Infantry Division, the 28th Infantry Division, 
the 75th Infantry Division commanded by 
Major General Roy E. Porter, the 5th French 
Armored Division, and the 12th Armored Division 
commanded by Major General Roderick 

C. Allen at the end of January and continued 
the attack which succeeded in the 3rd Infantry 
Division’s seizure of NeufBrisach. The 75th Infantry 
Division attacked and protected the 3rd 
Infantry Division’s west flank. The 28th Infantry 
Division launched its attack from the 
Kaysersberg valley and cleared the suburbs of 
Colmar, enabling units of the French 5th Armored 
Division to enter the city on February 
2nd. Immediately thereafter, the 12th Armored 
Division was committed for a drive south and 

December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E2157 

on February 5th, met French elements advancing 
north at Rouffach. French forces completed 
the cleansing of the Pocket and destruction 
of the enemy’s final bridge across the 
Rhine at Chalampe on 9 February 9th, 1945. 
For this final phase of the fight, one more 
Medal of Honor was awarded to the 3rd Infantry 
Division’s T/5 Forrest E. Peden. 

The Battle of the Colmar Pocket, overshadowed 
by the Battle of the Bulge to the 
north, saw some of the bitterest fighting of the 
war and resulted in the award of the Presidential 
Unit Citation to the entire 3rd Infantry 
Division with its attachments, as well as the 
award of the fourrage`re of the Croix de Guerre 
embroidered Colmar. The 109th Infantry Regiment 
of the 28th Infantry Division was also 
awarded the fourrage`re. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask the House to join me in 
congratulating and thanking the surviving veterans 
of the Battle of the Colmar Pocket on 
the upcoming 67th anniversary of this battle 
which liberated Colmar and cleared the Germans 
from southern Alsace. I especially would 
like to express my thanks and admiration to 
Major General Ramsey for his outstanding 
combat leadership at Colmar and throughout 
his illustrious military career. 

f 

OUR UNCONSCIONABLE NATIONAL 
DEBT 

HON. MIKE COFFMAN 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. COFFMAN of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, 
on January 26, 1995, when the last attempt at 
a balanced budget amendment passed the 
House by a bipartisan vote of 300–132, the 
national debt was $4,801,405,175,294.28. 

Today, it is $15,110,498,560,876.77. We’ve 
added $10,309,093,385,852.49 to our debt in 
16 years. This is $10 trillion in debt our nation, 
our economy, and our children could have 
avoided with a balanced budget amendment. 

f 

U.S. CITIZEN OF DISTINCTION CORPORAL/
DETECTIVE ROBERT 
‘‘SHANE’’ WILSON 
HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
declare Robert ‘‘Shane’’ Wilson U.S. Citizen of 
Distinction. 

Whereas, our lives have been touched by 
the life of this one man . . . who has given of 
himself in order for others to stand; and 

Whereas, Corporal/Detective Robert 
‘‘Shane’’ Wilson served eight (8) years in the 
City of Doraville Police Department and gave 
his life answering a call to duty; and 

Whereas, Corporal/Detective Wilson never 
asked for fame or fortune, nor found a job too 
small or too big; but gave of himself, his time, 
his talent and his life to uplift those in need by 
demonstrating unwavering commitment to protecting 
and serving the citizens of Doraville 
and DeKalb County; and 

Whereas, he was a husband, a father, a 
son, a brother and a friend; he was also our 

warrior, a man of great integrity who remained 
true to the uplifting and service to our community; 
and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia recognizes Corporal 
Detective Robert ‘‘Shane’’ Wilson as a citizen 
of great worth and so noted distinction; 

Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby attest to the 112th Congress 
that Corporal/Detective Robert ‘‘Shane’’ 
Wilson is deemed worthy and deserving of this 
‘‘Congressional Honor’’ by declaring Corporal/ 
Detective Robert ‘‘Shane’’ Wilson U.S. Citizen 
of Distinction in the 4th Congressional District 
of Georgia. 

Proclaimed, this 17th day of November, 
2011. 

f 

WORKFORCE DEMOCRACY AND 
FAIRNESS ACT 

SPEECH OF 

HON. JERRY F. COSTELLO 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, November 30, 2011 

The House in Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union had under 
consideration the bill (H.R. 3094) to amend 
the National Labor Relations Act with respect 
to representation hearings and the 
timing of elections of labor organizations 
under that Act. 

Mr. COSTELLO. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong 
opposition to H.R. 3094, the so-called Workforce 
Democracy and Fairness Act of 2011. 

Since coming to Congress, I have been a 
strong advocate for the right of every employee 
to form a union and collectively bargain 
for their rights. This bill represents the most 
recent attempt to put the interests of businesses 
over the rights of workers, another in 
a long line of Republican attempts to strip 
these fundamental rights from working Americans. 


H.R. 3094 is designed to derail fair, legal 
union elections by mandating delays and encouraging 
frivolous, distracting lawsuits. At a 
time when we should be pursuing policies that 
will strengthen our workforce and support the 
middle class, this bill will only make it harder 
for working families to maintain their pay 
checks, secure health insurance, plan for retirement, 
and achieve the American Dream. 
As our economy continues to recover, it is 
my hope that Congress can come together to 
pass legislation that puts Americans back to 
work and maintains the strongest and most 
competitive workforce in the world. H.R. 3094 
will not achieve either of these goals, and I 
urge my colleagues to oppose it. 

f 

HONORING SGT. ARNOLD TRUITT 
DIXON 

HON. JEFF DENHAM 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DENHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Sgt. Arnold Truitt Dixon, a veteran of 
World War II, who is celebrating his 90th birthday 
on January 1, 2012. 

Sgt. Arnold Dixon, as he was known in the 
military, was known to those at home simply 

as Truitt. Truitt is the eldest son of Mattie and 
Henry Dixon, born on January 1, 1922, in Ada, 
Oklahoma. He migrated to California in 1940, 
and married Lena Owens on November 11, 
1941. Their only daughter Janice was born on 
October 13, 1942. Unfortunately, Lena passed 
away in January 1985, after a long illness. 
Soon thereafter, Jacquie entered his life and 
they were married on March 9, 1985. 

Truitt and Lena were happily married with a 
two-year old daughter, when the call came 
from the United States Army to report for active 
duty. On September 16, 1944, Truitt reported 
to duty at Fort Ord, California. Basic 
training was very tough. He was being trained 
as a Combat Infantryman and took his training 
very seriously, which would pay off in the later 
years of his army career. 

With basic training and schooling completed, 
Truitt was aboard a troop ship with 
thousands of other soldiers travelling to parts 
unknown. After days of sailing, it was finally 
announced their destination was the Philippine 
Islands. After landing in the Philippines patrols 
were formed to find the remaining Japanese 
soldiers. His leadership earned him promotions 
quickly, from private, to private first 
class and to corporal in a very short time. His 
ability to lead and the fact that he was an expert 
marksman earned him the ‘‘Combat Infantryman’s 
Badge’’ in late 1944, just after landing 
in the Philippines. 

In late 1944, General Douglas MacArthur, 
as promised, returned to the Philippines. Orders 
went out to all Combat Divisions in the 
Pacific command to select ten of their best 
soldiers for assignment to General Headquarters 
in Manila. The selection criteria for 
those men were exceptionally high. They must 
have a score of 110 or better on the Army 
General Classification Test, must have an excellent 
service record as a combat solider, be 
of good physique and over five feet ten inches 
tall, and finally, they must have a soldierly appearance. 
PFC. Arnold Truitt Dixon was selected 
as one of the 10 soldiers from the 
105th Infantry Regiment, 40th Division. 

All the chosen men reported to Manila to 
form Honor Guard Company ‘‘E.’’ To quote 
their commanding officer, ‘‘These 200 soldiers 
chosen for Honor Guard had fought the Japanese 
on the beaches, in the jungles, and in 
the mountains. They represented all the fighting 
men of the Southwest Pacific Area. This 
unit was probably the sharpest most elite unit 
formed during World War IL’’ 

The Japanese surrender brought numerous 
Japanese officers from Tokyo to Manila to formalize 
the papers that needed to be signed 
for the official surrender. Truitt was on duty as 
those officials arrived and remembers the 
American officer in charge ordering the Japanese 
to remove their ceremonial swords before 
entering the building. As he stood by as 
part of the Honor Guard on duty that night, 
one of the officers was quoted as saying, 
‘‘This is the first time that many members of 
Company ‘E’ had ever looked upon a Japanese, 
except over gun sights and, though 
many a trigger finger itched, the conference 
was carried out in perfect order.’’ 

It was not long after the surrender was formalized 
that Company ‘‘E’’ was alerted for 
transfer to Tokyo, Japan and was among the 
first United States soldiers to arrive in Japan. 
After staying two days in a silk factory, Company 
‘‘E’’ moved on to Tokyo, where they 
were billeted in the Finance Building. Guarding 


E2158 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2011 

the Supreme Commanders offices, the United 
Nations headquarters and General MacArthur 
were their primary assignments. 

A few weeks after arrival in Tokyo, Corporal 
Dixon was promoted to Sergeant and assigned 
as leader of a guard patrol. Truitt’s discharge 
from the Army makes this statement, 
‘‘Served in the Asiatic Pacific Theater for 15 
months. Served in the Honor Guard Company, 
General Headquarters Tokyo, Japan. Assisted 
in the guarding and patrolling of General MacArthur’s 
headquarters. Supervised 15 men of 
a patrol section. Kept section records and 
made recommendations to his commanding 
officer.’’ 

On August 15, 1945, the United States received 
Japan’s notification of surrender. On 
September 2, 1945, General MacArthur signed 
the official documents ending World War II 
with Japan. With the war over, Truitt returned 
to the United States and reunited with his wife 
and young daughter. He received his Honorable 
Discharge on May 5, 1994. 

During his military career, he received the 
following decorations and citations: Combat Infantryman 
Badge, The Good Conduct Medal, 
Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal, Philippine 
Liberation Ribbon (with one Bronze Star), 
Army Occupation Medal, and World War II 
Victory Medal. 

Mr. Speaker, please join me in thanking Sgt. 
Arnold Truitt Dixon for his honorable service to 
our great country and honoring him as he 
celebrates his 90th birthday. 

f 

ERADICATING HIV/AIDS IN OUR 
COMMUNITIES 

HON. CHARLES B. RANGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. RANGEL. Mr. Speaker, today we unite 
in solidarity to eradicate HIV/AIDS in our communities 
across the world. We stand together 
to raise awareness about the epidemic so we 
can prevent further spread of the deadly virus 
and give hope to the 33.3 million people 
worldwide who are suffering from this terrible 
illness. 

In the United States alone, the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention estimates that 
over one million people are HIV positive. What 
is even more tragic is that one in five people 
infected are unaware of it. HIV/AIDS is one of 
the leading causes of death for both the African 
American and Hispanic communities and 
presents a great hazard to our society. 

I believe Congress has a moral obligation to 
continue funding to eliminate HIV/AIDS despite 
our budgetary challenges. Earlier this 
year I introduced the National Black Clergy for 
the Elimination of HIV/AIDS Act which would 
authorize several federal health agencies such 
as the National Institute of Health, Office of 
Minority Health of the Department of Health 
and Human Services, and the CDC to intensify 
awareness prevention, community outreach, 
testing, behavioral research, and increase 
grants to faith-based organizations in 
the African American community. 

This year’s theme for World AIDS Day is 
‘Getting to zero’. That means zero new infections, 
zero discrimination, and zero AIDS-related 
deaths. These are common goals shared 
globally regardless of race, religion or political 

ideologies. Yet we can only accomplish these 
goals in America if we work together, Democrats 
and Republicans, in supporting bold initiatives 
and legislation to combat HIV/AIDS in 
our communities. 

f 

WORLD AIDS DAY 

HON. DANNY K. DAVIS 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, the fight 
to arrest HIV–AIDS must continue. 

Today is December 1, World Aids Day and 
in Chicago at the Ruth Rothstein Core Center 
at 2020 West Harrison St., Chicago, Governor 
Pat Quinn, and a group of AIDS professionals 
activists organized by Benny Montgomery, a 
retired member of my Congressional staff are 
holding a press conference as we do every 
year to kick off a day of awareness raising 
and action to help in the fight against HIV and 
AIDS. I am generally able to be with this 
group. However, my duties as a Member of 
Congress have kept me here in Washington, 
DC. Nevertheless, I am pleased to be represented 
by my assistant Ms. Cherita Logan, 
our Deputy District Director, who is a long time 
aids activist and education program director 
herself. 

We recognize that although some programs 
has been made, as a matter of fact much 
progress has been made, but we still have 
much further to go; therefore I urge each one 
of us to do as much individually and collectively 
as we can to fight this dreadful disease. 

f 

HONORING HARRIS MEMORIAL 
CHURCH OF GOD IN CHRIST 

HON. DALE E. KILDEE 

OF MICHIGAN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, on December 4, 
2011 Harris Memorial Church of God in Christ 
will celebrate its 65th year of devotion to the 
Lord. Founded in January of 1946 by the late 
Superintendent Theodore R. Harris the church 
started out as Elm Park Church of God in 
Christ in a partially finished structure. With the 
help of his bride Missionary Erma I. Harris 
they set out to create a place where souls 
could be saved and the community could be 
served. During the church’s infancy Brother 
Willie Parker was called to join the congregation 
as an evangelist. Elder Parker was instrumental 
in hosting a revival that lead to many 
saved souls and a steady increase in the 
membership. 

As the congregation grew, Pastor Harris 
sought Gods vision and decided to build a 
sanctuary. In 1959, with great celebration and 
thanks to the Lord, the sanctuary was built. 
The congregation was empowered by the success 
the Lord had bestowed upon the young 
church and the congregation paid off the sanctuary 
in 1965. On Friday, July 25, 1980 Pastor 
Harris departed life to join the Lord. He was 
succeeded by his grandson Pastor Walter E. 
Bogan. 

Having a close relationship with his grandfather, 
Pastor Bogan knew that his grand


father’s vision for the church included expanding 
its ministries. He wanted to fulfill that vision 
and began to look for locations that had 
the space for the expanded ministries. In 
1983, 30 acres of land was purchased to build 
a house for the Lord and His ministries. On 
November 22, 1992 the church’s construction 
was completed on Lippincott Ave. They reside 
at this location today and the expanded ministries 
strengthen souls every week. Walter 
Bogan’s son is now the presiding Pastor at 
Harris Memorial and works to continue and 
expand the success of their many ministries. 

Mr. Speaker, please join me in congratulating 
Harris Memorial Church of God in Christ 
on their success and dedication to the Flint 
Community. I pray that the ministers, staff, 
and congregation of Harris Memorial will continue 
their work and spread the Gospel of 
Jesus Christ for many, many years to come. 

f 

REGARDING ALAN P. GROSS 

HON. CHRIS VAN HOLLEN 

OF MARYLAND 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to 
mark the second year anniversary of the unjust 
and inhumane incarceration in a Cuban 
prison of my constituent Allan P. Gross. 

A 62-year-old international development 
specialist and social worker with 25 years of 
experience helping people in the West Bank, 
Gaza, Iraq, Afghanistan, Haiti and throughout 
Africa, Alan Gross has devoted his career to 
helping others with a single goal in mind: to 
improve the quality of life of the disadvantaged. 


And, it is as a result of these humanitarian 
efforts that he has spent the last 2 years 
locked up in a Cuban prison. 

Alan was arrested in Cuba while working on 
behalf of USAID to help the country’s Jewish 
community establish an Intranet and improve 
its access to the Internet. The Jewish community 
in Cuba is small and dispersed, making it 
difficult to communicate amongst themselves 
and with the wider Jewish community around 
the world. Neither his presence nor his actions 
in Cuba were meant to pose a threat or danger 
to the Cuban government. 

For the first 14 months of his captivity, Alan 
was held without charge. Then, in February 
2011, he was charged with ‘‘acts to undermine 
the integrity and independence’’ of the State. 
After a two day trial, he was convicted and 
sentenced to 15 years in prison. His appeal on 
humanitarian grounds to the Cuban Supreme 
Court was denied on August 5, 2011. 

Alan’s health has deteriorated tremendously 
during his incarceration. He has lost approximately 
100 pounds and he is suffering from a 
number of serious health issues, some of 
which his family fears may become permanent. 
Additionally, in August 2010, his 26-year-
old daughter was diagnosed with breast cancer 
and, this year, his 89-year-old mother was 
also diagnosed with cancer. 

Given the humanitarian nature of his activities 
in Cuba, and given his health and the 
health of his family, sentencing Alan Gross to 
15 years in prison was inhumane. 

If the Cuban government is serious about 
improving relations with the United States, it 
must recognize the harm its continued incarceration 
of Alan Gross is doing to that relationship. 



December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E2159 

The Cuban government must act now and 
release Alan Gross immediately and unconditionally—
for the sake of the relationship between 
the United States and Cuban people 
and for the sake of the health of Alan Gross 
and his family. 

f 

HONORING SUPERIOR CHEVROLET 

HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
submit the following Proclamation: 

Whereas, we need businesses to set up 
shop in our community to provide the goods 
and services that are needed in order for our 
citizens to survive and thrive on a day to day 
basis; and 

Whereas, in 1969, Mr. Lamar Ferrell started 
Lamar Ferrell Chevrolet here in Decatur, 
Georgia to service the citizens of DeKalb 
County, Georgia and nearby communities; and 

Whereas, when Mr. Ferrell passed away, 
the new owner Mr. Buddy Hyatt purchased the 
business and it has been family owned ever 
since under the name of Superior Chevrolet; 
and 

Whereas, Superior Chevrolet continues to 
be a resource for citizens in DeKalb County 
and beyond with excellent service, providing 
employment opportunities and providing a 
product that ‘‘keeps America moving’’ contributing 
to the local and national economy; and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia is officially honoring, 
recognizing and congratulating Superior Chevrolet 
on their forty-second (42) anniversary as 
a business anchor in our District; 

Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby proclaim October 21, 2011 
as Superior Chevrolet Day In the 4th Congressional 
District of Georgia 

Proclaimed, this 21st day of October, 2011. 

f 

THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF 
IMPRISONMENT OF ALAN GROSS 

HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, this Saturday 
marks the third anniversary since American 

U.S. AID worker Alan Gross was arrested and 
unjustly imprisoned in Cuba. It is the third year 
in a row that the Gross family will prepare to 
spend another holiday season without their 
beloved husband, father, and son. 
Alan Gross, a resident of Maryland and a 
long time international development worker, 
traveled to Cuba in 2009 to help the island’s 
small Jewish community establish better inter-
net access. Upon his arrival, Mr. Gross declared 
all of his electronic items with Cuban 
customs officials. Yet on December 3, 2009, 
he was arrested and subsequently detained 
for 14 months without any charges filed 
against him. Earlier this year, he was charged 
with ‘‘acts to undermine the integrity and independence’’ 
of Cuba. Mr. Gross, a non-Spanish 
speaking man in his 60’s who has worked on 
development projects in over 50 countries, 

certainly was not trained or equipped to engage 
in subterfuge. 

Alan Gross has been sentenced to 15 years 
in jail. This preposterous sentence has caused 
tremendous emotional pain and financial hardship 
for his family, and devastated the Jewish 
community. Alan’s daughter is currently undergoing 
treatment for cancer, and his 89 year 
old mother is in poor health and fears she will 
never see her son again. Alan’s wife, Judy, 
has been caring for her ill daughter and moth-
er-in-law while working full time to support her 
family. Alan himself is suffering from severe 
health problems due to a lack of medical treatment 
during his incarceration. 

In October, Governor Bill Richardson traveled 
to Cuba with the intent to discuss Alan 
Gross’ release. During this visit, which had 
been approved by the Cuban Government, 
Governor Bill Richardson was denied even a 
single meeting with Alan to assess his health. 
Subsequently, the Cuban government refused 
to discuss Alan’s case with Governor Richardson. 


The Castro regime has chosen to align itself 
with the most repressive and violent regimes 
in the world, counting among its friends the 
Venezuelan and Iranian regimes. These regimes 
have disregarded judicial processes in 
order to unjustly hold American citizens to use 
as leverage. We will not sit idly by and allow 
an American citizen to suffer at the hands of 
these tyrants. The Castro regime must immediately 
allow Alan to receive proper medical 
treatment and take the necessary steps to 
bring him home to his family as soon as possible. 


My colleagues and I will continue to speak 
out on behalf of Alan, his family, and the Jewish 
community, and continue to use every tool 
at our disposal to secure Alan’s immediate release. 


f 

SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND 

IDEALS OF WORLD AIDS DAY 

HON. LAURA RICHARDSON 

OF CALIFORNIA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Ms. RICHARDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in support of the goals and ideals of 
World AIDS Day. A day dedicated to bringing 
awareness to those who have died from the 
disease and the strides that have been made 
in the fight against it. 

This year marks 30 years after the first discovery 
of AIDS cases in the United States. 
The Center of Disease Control (CDC) estimates 
that 33.3 million people have HIV 
worldwide, with 1.2 million persons who are 
living with HIV in the United States. Every 91/2 
minutes, someone in the U.S. is infected with 
HIV. One in five living with HIV is unaware of 
their infection. By race, African Americans 
face the most severe HIV burden. The impact 
of the HIV/AIDS epidemic spans the nation 
with HIV diagnoses having been reported in all 
50 states, the District of Columbia, and the 

U.S. dependencies, possessions, and associated 
nations. 
The theme for World AIDS Day 2011 is 
‘‘Getting to Zero.’’ After 30 years of the global 
fight against HIV/AIDS, this year the focus is 
on achieving 3 targets: Zero new HIV infections. 
Zero discrimination. Zero AIDS-related 
deaths. 

The goal of ‘‘Zero AIDS Related Deaths’’ 
signifies an increased access to available 
treatments for all those infected. Currently, 
only one third of the 15 million people living 
with HIV worldwide who are in need of lifelong 
treatment are receiving it. Universal access to 
antiretroviral treatments for those living with 
HIV will not only decrease the number of AIDS 
related deaths, but will increase the quality of 
life among those infected and decrease transmission. 


World AIDS Day is an opportunity for all of 
us to learn the facts about HIV. By increasing 
the understanding of how HIV is transmitted, 
how it can be prevented, and the reality of living 
with HIV today—we can use this knowledge 
to take care of our own health and the 
health of others. 

Since its discovery, countless researchers, 
healthcare providers, politicians, and educators 
have contributed to the global initiative 
to contain and eventually eliminate the presence 
of AIDS in all corners of the world. Recent 
scientific advancements have resulted in 
revolutionary breakthroughs with the potential 
to reverse the epidemic in coming years. I ask 
my colleagues to join me in this goal, to remember 
those who have died of the disease 
and to celebrate accomplishments achieved, 
specifically the increased access to treatment 
and prevention services. 

It is imperative that we continue our efforts 
and work together to increase funding for HIV 
prevention and education, so that our children 
will be equipped with sufficient and appropriate 
knowledge of this growing threat within 
our communities until HIV/AIDS becomes a 
memory. 

f 

RECOGNIZING DR. ROGER GORDON 

SMITH’S CAREER SERVICE TO 

OUR NATION’S VETERANS 

HON. STEVE COHEN 

OF TENNESSEE 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to 
honor an unsung hero of the Veterans Administration, 
Dr. Roger Gordon Smith, M.D. Dr. 
Smith was born on April 6, 1951, and just recently 
concluded his long career serving our 
nation’s veterans on August 26th of this year. 

Dr. Smith attended Battle Creek Central 
High School in Michigan, where he graduated 
in 1969. He earned his Bachelor’s Degree in 
Chemistry with top honors from Howard University 
in 1973. He also earned his doctoral 
degree in medicine with scholastic honors 
from Howard University in 1977. Following 
that, he interned at Howard University Hospital 
until 1978, whereupon he obtained his license 
to practice medicine in the District of Columbia 
the following year. 

With such an auspicious beginning to his 
career in medicine, one might have expected 
Dr. Smith to pursue a lucrative private practice. 
Instead, once he had paid off his medical 
school debts, Dr. Smith chose to apply his 
considerable talents toward a long career with 
the Veterans Administration Medical Center in 
Memphis, Tennessee. There, he attended to 
the often difficult and complex needs of disabled 
and retired veterans, most of whom 
were just returning from Vietnam. 

Upon beginning work with the VA, Dr. Smith 
quickly faced skepticism and bigotry from 


E2160 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2011 

some of his patients because of his race. 
Rather than letting this become a source of 
discouragement, Dr. Smith instead quietly and 
calmly carried out his vital work each day with 
warmth and good humor. He was known to 
have convinced more than a few patients to 
let go of their racial animus because of his 
professional demeanor and attentiveness to 
his patients’ needs and concerns. Dr. Smith 
believes that it is a great privilege to be entrusted 
with the well being of our nation’s veterans, 
and that commitment to service is reflected 
in the way he cared for our nation’s 
wounded. 

Among his colleagues, Dr. Smith’s bedside 
manner was considered ‘‘a thing of beauty.’’ 
He was always open, accessible, and never 
made anyone feel like they were imposing a 
burden on his time. His calm manner under 
stress exerted a calming influence on those 
around him. As a resident teacher, Dr. Smith 
was sought-after by physicians-in-training for 
his professional enthusiasm and expertise. His 
patients regarded him as their primary care 
physician of choice, and considered his office 
in the VA ‘‘the gold standard’’ in healthcare. 
He took even the most mundane talks seriously 
whenever it concerned a veteran’s well-
being, listening carefully to every patient’s 
story, dutifully tracking each patient’s clinical 
needs, no matter how small. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me 
in thanking Dr. Roger Gordon Smith for his 
dedication to his country, his service to our 
nation’s wounded and the inspiration he has 
provided to his students and his colleagues. 
Dr. Smith’s great achievement is three decades 
of daily service to our veterans, acting as 
the open hand of a grateful nation to our nation’s 
wounded warriors. Dr. Smith is what 
every physician should strive to be. 

f 

HONORING BISHOP QUINCY 
LAVELLE CARSWELL 

HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
submit the following Proclamation. 

Whereas, Bishop Quincy Lavelle Carswell, 
is celebrating fifty (50) years in preaching the 
gospel this year and has provided stellar leadership 
to his church on an international level; 
and 

Whereas, Bishop Quincy Lavelle Carswell, 
under the guidance and calling of God began 
preaching the word of God as a child and has 
transformed over the years as pastor of the 
historic Tabernacle Baptist Church in Atlanta, 
Georgia from 1975–1992, founding Covenant 
Ministries of Metropolitan Atlanta in 1993; and 

Whereas, from Miami, Florida to Atlanta, 
Georgia, he has transformed, trail blazed and 
taught the gospel on a national and international 
level wherein the lives of many have 
been touched; and 

Whereas, this remarkable and tenacious 
man of God has been and continues to be a 
blessing to us as a spiritual leader, an educator 
and a community leader who not only talks 
the talk, but walks the walk; and 

Whereas, Bishop Carswell is a spiritual warrior, 
a man of compassion, a fearless leader 
and a servant to all, but most of all a visionary 

who has shared not only with his Church, but 
with our District and the world his passion to 
spread the gospel of Jesus Christ; and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia has set aside this 
day to honor and recognize Bishop Quincy 
Lavelle Carswell, as he celebrates his 50th 
Pastoral Anniversary; 

Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby proclaim October 23, 2011 
as Bishop Quincy Lavelle Carswell Day in the 
4th Congressional District of Georgia. 

Proclaimed, this 23rd day of October, 2011. 

f 

COLORADO SCHOOL OF MINES 
WOMEN’S SOFTBALL TEAM 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud the Colorado 
School of Mines Women’s Softball Team, who 
last spring won a berth at the NCAA Women’s 
Softball Tournament for the second time in 
school history. The Orediggers finished the 
year with a conference record of 28–11, and 
an overall record of 36–24, sharing the Rocky 
Mountain Athletic Conference Championship 
with Metropolitan State College of Denver. 
The School of Mines also hosted the Rocky 
Mountain Athletic Conference softball championship 
last spring. The three day event was 
a success for the School of Mines and all the 
schools that participated. Two of the School of 
Mines players were named to the All Tournament 
Team, Kelly Unkrich, and Macy Jones. 

The women of the Orediggers softball team 
should be extremely proud of their 2011 season, 
and their efforts on the diamond and in 
the classroom. These women exemplify the 
idea of the collegiate student-athlete. The Colorado 
School of Mines specializes in hard 
sciences, and I commend these young women 
in their dedication to fields that have traditionally 
been male dominated. They are an inspiration 
to girls everywhere who want to study 
science and engineering. 

I also want to congratulate pitcher Kelly 
Unkrich who was named the Rocky Mountain 
Athletic Conference Women’s Athlete of the 
Month for April 2011. 

I extend my deepest congratulations to the 
women of the Colorado School of Mines 
Women’s Softball Team. The lessons they are 
learning as student-athletes will make these 
women the science and technology leaders of 
tomorrow. I am proud to have this world class 
school in my district. I wish the team best of 
luck in the 2012 season. I hope it is even 
more successful than 2011, again congratulations, 
and Go Orediggers! 

f 

TRIBUTE TO MR. TOM HOSEA, 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, HICA 

HON. DANNY K. DAVIS 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I have 
known Mr. Tom Hosea since the late 1960s 
and early 1970s. When I first met Tom, he 

was an executive with the American Hospital 
Association; many of us who met and ran together 
at that time were health activists. I say 
ran together because we attended so many 
meetings until it seemed as a natural thing to 
do. Although there were many emerging 
groups, Tom was actively involved with the 
Chicago chapter of the National Association of 
Health Services Executives. As a matter of 
fact, Tom was the highest ranking African-
American, or Black person, that we knew who 
worked for the American Hospital Association 
at that time. 

Tom got the community action bug and the 
next thing I knew he was working with Dr. 
Levy, a Black Hebrew Israelite down East of 
Ashland on Roosevelt Road in an area called 
the Valley where the Westside organization 
operated with Chester Robinson, Thursty Dar-
den, Rev. Archie Hargraves, Rev. John 
Crawford, and others in its leadership. Later 
on, Tom got involved in the Austin community 
and worked with Mary Volpe as Assistant Director 
of the Northeast Austin Community Organization 
and after Sam Flowers died, Tom 
became the Executive Director of HICA which 
he has struggled to keep alive. 

When I first knew Tom his name was 
Hozier; he also got involved with the entertainment 
business spinning records and putting on 
events; next thing I knew, I along with everyone 
else that I knew was calling him Hosea. 
Tom has passed away, but he led a very active 
life and had a very meaningful and colorful 
career. 

To his wife and family, we express our condolences 
and know that the value of his work 
will go on and on. 

f 

WORLD AIDS DAY 

HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, as we 
pause to reflect on World AIDS Day, I want to 
thank the many activists and advocates who 
work tirelessly—every day—to focus increased 
attention on HIV/AIDS education, treatment 
and prevention. I want to recognize the great 
work of David Munar and the AIDS Foundation 
of Chicago, and Mark Ishaug and AIDS 
United, who—along with countless organizations 
across the country and world—are working 
to end HIV/AIDS and to ensure that people 
with HIV/AIDS live longer and better lives. 

HIV/AIDS is one of the world’s most pressing 
global health challenges. It is a danger to 
global security and to the future of people 
around the world. Nearly 35 million people are 
living with HIV/AIDS around the world, including 
over one million Americans. Our community, 
our nation and the entire world are threatened 
by this terrible pandemic. 

As the HIV virus has spread, the face of its 
victims has changed. Women now account for 
52 percent of the adults living with HIV/AIDS 
around the world. In regions like sub-Saharan 
Africa, gender inequalities have left women 
particularly vulnerable to infection. The battle 
to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among women 
will ultimately hinge on our ability to empower 
them with the information and the tools needed 
to protect themselves, their families and 
their communities. That is one of the reasons 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E2161 

that I have been such a strong supporter of 
microbisides research. 

The HIV/AIDS epidemic has not spared the 
world’s children. Last year there were 3.4 million 
children across the globe living with HIV, 
and the disease has left more than 16.6 million 
AIDS orphans, most of whom live in sub-
Saharan Africa, in its wake. 

Despite the many advances of the last thirty 
years, as the pandemic has grown, so have 
the challenges. Despite the significant expansion 
of treatment programs, only 47% of the 

14.2 million people who were eligible for treatment 
were receiving it by the end of last year. 
Despite the 21% drop in deaths from AIDS 
since 2005, last year 1.8 million people died of 
AIDS. HIV remains a leading cause of death 
worldwide and the number one cause of death 
in Africa. 
The United States has a responsibility to 
lead the fight against HIV/AIDS by containing 
the spread of the virus, helping to provide 
treatment, and investing in a cure. It is critical 
that we continue to meet this responsibility, 
especially after last week’s announcement by 
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis 
and Malaria that they cannot fund any new 
grants for at least two years because of the 
global financial crisis. 

To ensure that the millions of people battling 
HIV/AIDS do not become collateral damage of 
the economic downturn, and to uphold our responsibility 
as a global leader in the fight 
against HIV/AIDS, I will do whatever I can to 

ensure that we maintain commitment to domestic 
and global AIDS programs. That includes 
funding for PEPFAR and the Global 
Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria, as well 
as vital funding for domestic programs like the 
Ryan White CARE Act, and the Housing Opportunities 
for People with AIDS Program, and 
especially, the AIDS Drug Assistance Program, 
given that some states are changing the 
income eligibility criteria for that program, 
while others are seeing waiting lists. 

While we have come far in the fight, we so 
have a long way to go, and we cannot afford 
to become complacent. 

f 

HONORING LIZZIE ALEXANDER 

HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I 
submit the following Proclamation. 

Whereas, reaching the age of 75 years is a 
remarkable milestone; and 

Whereas, Ms. Lizzie Alexander was born on 
October 25, 1936 and is celebrating that milestone; 
and 

Whereas, Ms. Alexander has been blessed 
with a long, happy life, devoted to God and 
credits it all to the Will of God; and 

Whereas, Ms. Alexander is celebrating her 
75th Birthday with her family members, church 

members and friends here in DeKalb County, 
Georgia on October 22, 2011; and 

Whereas, the Lord has been her Shepherd 
throughout her life and she prays daily and is 
leading by example a blessed life; and 

Whereas, we are honored that she is celebrating 
the milestone of her 75th birthday in 
the 4th District of Georgia; and 

Whereas, the U.S. Representative of the 
Fourth District of Georgia has set aside this 
day to honor and recognize Ms. Lizzie Alexander 
for an exemplary life which is an inspiration 
to all, 

Now therefore, I, HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, 
Jr. do hereby proclaim October 22nd & 
October 25th, 2011 as Ms. Lizzie Alexander 
Days in the 4th Congressional District of Georgia. 


Proclaimed, this 22nd day of October, 2011. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. TODD ROKITA 

OF INDIANA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Mr. ROKITA. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall 860, I 
was unavoidably detained. Had I been 
present, I would have voted ‘‘yes.’’ 


Thursday, December 1, 2011 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 

See Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity. 

Senate passed National Defense Authorization bills. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S8079–S8159 

Measures Introduced: Seven bills and two resolutions 
were introduced, as follows: S. 1933–1939, S. 
Res. 342, and S. Con. Res. 33. Pages S8148–49 

Measures Reported: 

S. Res. 227, calling for the protection of the 
Mekong River Basin and increased United States 
support for delaying the construction of mainstream 
dams along the Mekong River, with an amendment 
in the nature of a substitute and with an amended 
preamble. 
S. Res. 316, expressing the sense of the Senate regarding 
Tunisia’s peaceful Jasmine Revolution, and 
with an amended preamble. 
S. 671, to authorize the United States Marshals 
Service to issue administrative subpoenas in investigations 
relating to unregistered sex offenders, with 
an amendment in the nature of a substitute. 
S. 1792, to clarify the authority of the United 
States Marshal Service to assist other Federal, State, 
and local law enforcement agencies in the investigation 
of cases involving sex offenders and missing 
children. Page S8148 
Measures Passed: 

Department of Defense Authorization Act: By 
93 yeas to 7 nays (Vote No. 218), Senate passed S. 
1867, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2012 
for military activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and for defense activities of 
the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, after taking action 
on the following amendments proposed thereto: 

Pages S8094–8138 

Adopted: 

Begich Modified Amendment No. 1114, to 
amend title 10, United States Code, to authorize 
space-available travel on military aircraft for mem


bers of the reserve components, a member or former 
member of a reserve component who is eligible for 
retired pay but for age, widows and widowers of retired 
members, and dependents. Pages S8094, S8116–17 

Ayotte (for McCain) Amendment No. 1220, to require 
Comptroller General of the United States reports 
on the Department of Defense implementation 
of justification and approval requirements for certain 
sole-source contracts. Pages S8095, S8116 

Levin (for Reed) Modified Amendment No. 1146, 
to provide for the participation of military technicians 
(dual status) in the study on the termination 
of military technician as a distinct personnel management 
category. Pages S8095, S8116–17 

Levin Modified Amendment No. 1293, to authorize 
the transfer of certain high-speed ferries to the 
Navy. Pages S8095, S8116–17 

Levin (for Boxer) Amendment No. 1206, to implement 
common sense controls on the taxpayer-
funded salaries of defense contractors. 

Pages S8095, S8109, S8115–16, S8116 

Chambliss Modified Amendment No. 1304, to require 
a report on the alignment, organizational reporting, 
and performance rating of Air Force system 
program managers, sustainment program managers, 
and product support managers at Air Logistics Centers 
or Air Logistics Complexes. Pages S8095, S8116–17 

Levin (for Pryor) Amendment No. 1151, to authorize 
a death gratuity and related benefits for Reserves 
who die during an authorized stay at their residence 
during or between successive days of inactive 
duty training. Pages S8095, S8116 

Levin (for Nelson (FL)) Amendment No. 1236, to 
require a report on the effects of changing flag officer 
positions within the Air Force Materiel Command. 
Pages S8095, S8116 

Ayotte (for Blunt/Gillibrand) Modified Amendment 
No. 1133, to provide for employment and reemployment 
rights for certain individuals ordered to 
full-time National Guard duty. Pages S8095, S8116–17 

D1295 


D1296 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 1, 2011 

Ayotte (for Murkowski) Modified Amendment 
No. 1287, to provide limitations on the retirement 
of C–23 aircraft. Pages S8095, S8116–17 

McCain (for Brown (MA)) Modified Amendment 
No. 1090, to provide that the basic allowance for 
housing in effect for a member of the National 
Guard is not reduced when the member transitions 
between active duty and full-time National Guard 
duty without a break in active service. 

Pages S8094–95, S8115, S8116–17 

By 99 yeas to 1 nay (Vote No. 215), Feinstein 
Amendment No. 1456, of a perfecting nature. 

Pages S8123–24, S8125 

By a unanimous vote of 100 yeas (Vote No. 216), 
Levin (for Menendez/Kirk) Amendment No. 1414, 
to require the imposition of sanctions with respect 
to the financial sector of Iran, including the Central 
Bank of Iran. Pages S8095, S8105–07, S8125–26 

Levin (for Nelson (FL)) Amendment No. 1209, to 
repeal the requirement for reduction of survivor annuities 
under the Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans’ 
dependency and indemnity compensation. 

Pages S8095, S8126 

Leahy Modified Amendment No. 1087, to improve 
the provisions relating to the treatment of certain 
sensitive national security information under the 
Freedom of Information Act. Pages S8127–28 

Udall (NM)/Schumer Modified Amendment No. 
1202, to clarify the application of the provisions of 
the Buy American Act to the procurement of photo-
voltaic devices by the Department of Defense. 

Pages S8095, S8128 

Rejected: 

By 45 yeas to 55 nays (Vote No. 213), Feinstein 
Amendment No. 1125, to clarify the applicability of 
requirements for military custody with respect to detainees. 
Pages S8094, S8095–S8105, S8107–08 

By 45 yeas to 55 nays (Vote No. 214), Feinstein 
Amendment No. 1126, to limit the authority of the 
Armed Forces to detain citizens of the United States 
under section 1031. 

Pages S8094, S8110–11, S8122–23, S8124–25 

By 41 yeas to 59 nays (Vote No. 217), Sessions 
Amendment No. 1274, to clarify the disposition 
under the law of war of persons detained by the 
Armed Forces of the United States pursuant to the 
Authorization for Use of Military Force. 

Pages S8095, S8113–15, S8126–27 

Withdrawn: 

Inhofe Amendment No. 1093, to require the detention 
at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, of high-value enemy combatants who 
will be detained long-term. Pages S8094, S8107 

Collins Amendment No. 1105, to make permanent 
the requirement for certifications relating to the 
transfer of detainees at United States Naval Station, 

Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to foreign countries and 
other foreign entities. Pages S8094, S8117 

Collins Amendment No. 1158, to clarify the permanence 
of the prohibition on transfers of recidivist 
detainees at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, to foreign countries and entities. 

Pages S8094, S8117 

Ayotte (for Rubio) Amendment No. 1290, to 
strike the national security waiver authority in section 
1032, relating to requirements for military custody. 
Pages S8095, S8122 

Merkley Amendment No. 1256, to require a plan 
for the expedited transition of responsibility for military 
and security operations in Afghanistan to the 
Government of Afghanistan. Pages S8095, S8122 

Levin (for Leahy) Amendment No. 1080, to clarify 
the applicability of requirements for military custody 
with respect to detainees. Pages S8095, S8126 

During consideration of this measure today, Senate 
also took the following action: 

Chair sustained a point of order under Rule XXII, 
that the following amendments were not germane, 
and the amendments thus fell: 

Levin (for Nelson (FL)) Amendment No. 1255, to 
require an epidemiological study on the health of 
military personnel exposed to burn pit emissions at 
Joint Base Balad. Page S8095 

Ayotte (for Murkowski) Amendment No. 1286, to 
require a Department of Defense Inspector General 
report on theft of computer tapes containing protected 
information on covered beneficiaries under the 
TRICARE program. Page S8095 

Levin (for Reed) Amendment No. 1294, to enhance 
consumer credit protections for members of 
the Armed Forces and their dependents. Page S8095 

Levin (for Brown (OH)) Amendment No. 1259, to 
link domestic manufacturers to defense supply chain 
opportunities. Page S8095 

Levin (for Brown (OH)) Amendment No. 1261, to 
extend treatment of base closure areas as HUBZones 
for purposes of the Small Business Act. Page S8095 

Levin (for Brown (OH)) Amendment No. 1263, to 
authorize the conveyance of the John Kunkel Army 
Reserve Center, Warren, Ohio. Page S8095 

Levin (for Wyden) Amendment No. 1296, to require 
reports on the use of indemnification agreements 
in Department of Defense contracts. 

Page S8095 

Levin (for Pryor) Amendment No. 1152, to recognize 
the service in the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces of certain persons by honoring them 
with status as veterans under law. Page S8095 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1297 

Sessions Amendment No. 1182, to prohibit the 
permanent stationing of more than two Army Brigade 
Combat Teams within the geographic boundaries 
of the United States European Command. 

Page S8095 

Sessions Amendment No. 1184, to limit any reduction 
in the number of surface combatants of the 
Navy below 313 vessels. Page S8095 

Levin (for Reed) Amendment No. 1147, to prohibit 
the repayment of enlistment or related bonuses 
by certain individuals who become employed as 
military technicians (dual status) while already a 
member of a reserve component. Page S8095 

Levin (for Reed) Amendment No. 1148, to provide 
rights of grievance, arbitration, appeal, and review 
beyond the adjutant general for military technicians. 
Page S8095 

Levin (for Reed) Amendment No. 1204, to authorize 
a pilot program on enhancements of Department 
of Defense efforts on mental health in the National 
Guard and Reserves through community partnerships. 
Page S8095 

Ayotte (for Graham) Amendment No. 1179, to 
specify the number of judge advocates of the Air 
Force in the regular grade of brigadier general. 

Page S8095 

Ayotte (for Heller/Kirk) Amendment No. 1137, 
to provide for the recognition of Jerusalem as the 
capital of Israel and the relocation to Jerusalem of 
the United States Embassy in Israel. Page S8095 

Ayotte (for Heller) Amendment No. 1138, to provide 
for the exhumation and transfer of remains of 
deceased members of the Armed Forces buried in 
Tripoli, Libya. Page S8095 

Ayotte (for McCain) Amendment No. 1247, to restrict 
the authority of the Secretary of Defense to develop 
public infrastructure on Guam until certain 
conditions related to Guam realignment have been 
met. Page S8095 

Ayotte (for McCain/Ayotte) Amendment No. 
1249, to limit the use of cost-type contracts by the 
Department of Defense for major defense acquisition 
programs. Page S8095 

Ayotte (for McCain) Amendment No. 1248, to 
expand the authority for the overhaul and repair of 
vessels to the United States, Guam, and the Commonwealth 
of the Northern Mariana Islands. 

Page S8095 

Ayotte (for McCain) Amendment No. 1118, to 
modify the availability of surcharges collected by 
commissary stores. Page S8095 

Levin (for Bingaman) Amendment No. 1117, to 
provide for national security benefits for White 
Sands Missile Range and Fort Bliss. Page S8095 

Levin (for Gillibrand/Portman) Amendment No. 
1187, to expedite the hiring authority for the defense 
information technology/cyber workforce. 

Page S8095 

Levin (for Gillibrand/Blunt) Amendment No. 
1211, to authorize the Secretary of Defense to provide 
assistance to State National Guards to provide 
counseling and reintegration services for members of 
reserve components of the Armed Forces ordered to 
active duty in support of a contingency operation, 
members returning from such active duty, veterans 
of the Armed Forces, and their families. Page S8095 

Merkley Amendment No. 1239, to expand the 
Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry scholarship 
to include spouses of members of the Armed 
Forces who die in the line of duty. Page S8095 

Merkley Amendment No. 1258, to require the 
timely identification of qualified census tracts for 
purposes of the HUBZone program. Page S8095 

Leahy/Grassley Amendment No. 1186, to provide 
the Department of Justice necessary tools to fight 
fraud by reforming the working capital fund. 

Page S8095 

Wyden/Merkley Amendment No. 1160, to provide 
for the closure of Umatilla Army Chemical 
Depot, Oregon. Page S8095 

Wyden Amendment No. 1253, to provide for the 
retention of members of the reserve components on 
active duty for a period of 45 days following an extended 
deployment in contingency operations or 
homeland defense missions to support their reintegration 
into civilian life. Page S8095 

McCain (for Ayotte) Amendment No. 1068, to 
authorize lawful interrogation methods in addition 
to those authorized by the Army Field Manual for 
the collection of foreign intelligence information 
through interrogations. Page S8094 

McCain (for Brown (MA)/Boozman) Amendment 
No. 1119, to protect the child custody rights of 
members of the Armed Forces deployed in support 
of a contingency operation. Page S8094 

McCain (for Brown (MA)) Amendment No. 1089, 
to require certain disclosures from post-secondary institutions 
that participate in tuition assistance programs 
of the Department of Defense. Page S8095 

Udall (NM) Amendment No. 1153, to include 
ultralight vehicles in the definition of aircraft for 
purposes of the aviation smuggling provisions of the 
Tariff Act of 1930. Page S8095 

Udall (NM) Amendment No. 1154, to direct the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish an open 
burn pit registry to ensure that members of the 
Armed Forces who may have been exposed to toxic 
chemicals and fumes caused by open burn pits while 
deployed to Afghanistan or Iraq receive information 
regarding such exposure. Page S8095 


D1298 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 1, 2011 

McCain (for Corker) Amendment No. 1171, to 
prohibit funding for any unit of a security force of 
Pakistan if there is credible evidence that the unit 
maintains connections with an organization known 
to conduct terrorist activities against the United 
States or United States allies. Page S8095 

McCain (for Corker) Amendment No. 1173, to 
express the sense of the Senate on the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization. Page S8095 

Inhofe Amendment No. 1099, to express the sense 
of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should implement 
the recommendations of the Comptroller 
General of the United States regarding prevention, 
abatement, and data collection to address hearing injuries 
and hearing loss among members of the 
Armed Forces. Page S8094 

Inhofe Amendment No. 1100, to extend to products 
and services from Latvia existing temporary authority 
to procure certain products and services from 
countries along a major route of supply to Afghanistan. 
Page S8094 

Casey Amendment No. 1139, to require contractors 
to notify small business concerns that have been 
included in offers relating to contracts let by Federal 
agencies. Page S8094 

McCain (for Cornyn) Amendment No. 1200, to 
provide Taiwan with critically needed United States-
built multirole fighter aircraft to strengthen its self-
defense capability against the increasing military 
threat from China. Page S8094 

Shaheen Amendment No. 1120, to exclude cases 
in which pregnancy is the result of an act of rape 
or incest from the prohibition on funding of abortions 
by the Department of Defense. Page S8094 

Collins Amendment No. 1155, to authorize educational 
assistance under the Armed Forces Health 
Professions Scholarship program for pursuit of advanced 
degrees in physical therapy and occupational 
therapy. Page S8094 

Inhofe Amendment No. 1097, to eliminate gaps 
and redundancies between the over 200 programs 
within the Department of Defense that address psychological 
health and traumatic brain injury. 

Page S8094 

Franken Amendment No. 1197, to require contractors 
to make timely payments to subcontractors 
that are small business concerns. Page S8094 

Chair sustained a point of order that the following 
amendment is dilatory under cloture, and the 
amendment thus fell: 

Merkley Amendment No. 1174, to express the 
sense of Congress regarding the expedited transition 
of responsibility for military and security operations 
in Afghanistan to the Government of Afghanistan. 

Page S8094 

Chair sustained a point of order that the following 
amendment is drafted improperly, and the amendment 
thus fell: 

Ayotte (for Rubio) Amendment No. 1291, to 
strike the national security waiver authority in section 
1033, relating to requirements for certifications 
relating to transfer of detainees at United States 
Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to foreign 
countries and entities. Page S8095 

National Defense Authorization Act: Committee 
on Armed Services was discharged from further consideration 
of H.R. 1540, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2012 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and the bill was then passed, after striking 
all after the enacting clause and inserting in lieu 
thereof the text of S. 1867, as amended. Page S8138 

Senate insisted on its amendment, requested a 
conference with the House on the disagreeing votes 
of the two Houses, and the Chair was authorized to 
appoint the following conferees on the part of the 
Senate: Senators Levin, Lieberman, Reed, Akaka, 
Nelson (NE), Webb, McCaskill, Udall (CO), Hagan, 
Begich, Manchin, Shaheen, Gillibrand, Blumenthal, 
McCain, Inhofe, Sessions, Chambliss, Wicker, Brown 
(MA), Portman, Ayotte, Collins, Graham, Cornyn, 
and Vitter. Page S8138 

National Guard and Reservist Debt Relief Extension 
Act: Senate passed H.R. 2192, to exempt for 
an additional 4-year period, from the application of 
the means-test presumption of abuse under chapter 
7, qualifying members of reserve components of the 
Armed Forces and members of the National Guard 
who, after September 11, 2001, are called to active 
duty or to perform a homeland defense activity for 
not less than 90 days. Pages S8158–59 

Measures Considered: 
Payroll Tax Relief: Senate continued consideration 
of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 1917, 
to create jobs by providing payroll tax relief for middle 
class families and businesses. Pages S8138–39 

During consideration of this measure today, Senate 
also took the following action: 

By 51 yeas to 49 nays (Vote No. 219), Senate rejected 
the motion to proceed to consideration of the 
bill. (A unanimous-consent agreement was reached 
providing that the motion to proceed, having failed 
to achieve 60 affirmative votes, the motion to proceed 
was not agreed to.) Page S8139 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
that the motion to invoke cloture on the motion 
to proceed to consideration of the bill, be withdrawn. 
Page S8139 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST 


(Rectangle comment January 5, 2012 Congressional Record
1/31/2013 12:14:35 AM
On page D1299-1300, December 1, 2011, the following language appears: JOB GROWTH THROUGH CAPITAL FORMATION Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine spurring job growth through capital formation while protecting investors, including S. 1792, to clarify the authority of the United States Marshals Service to assist other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies in the investigation of cases involving sex offenders and missing children, S. 1831, to direct the Securities and Exchange Commission . . . Pennsylvania
The online Record has been corrected to read: JOB GROWTH THROUGH CAPITAL FORMATION Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine spurring job growth through capital formation while protecting investors, including S. 1791, to amend the securities laws to provide for registration exemptions for certain crowdfunded securities, S. 1831, to direct the Securities and Exchange Commission . . . Pennsylvania)
(Text Box comment CORRECTION)
D1299 

Payroll Tax Relief: Senate began consideration of 
the motion to proceed to consideration of the motion 
to proceed to S. 1931, to provide civilian payroll tax 
relief, to reduce the Federal budget deficit, and for 
other purposes. Page S8139 

By 20 yeas to 78 nays (Vote No. 220), Senate rejected 
the motion to proceed to consideration of the 
bill. (A unanimous-consent agreement was reached 
providing that the motion to proceed, having failed 
to achieve 60 affirmative votes, the motion to proceed 
was not agreed to.) Page S8139 

Halligan Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consideration 
of the nomination of Caitlin Joan 
Halligan, of New York, to be United States Circuit 
Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit. 

Page S8140 

A motion was entered to close further debate on 
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provisions 
of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the 
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent 
agreement of Thursday, December 1, 2011, a vote 
on cloture will occur on Tuesday, December 6, 
2011. Page S8140 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
that on Tuesday, December 6, 2011, at 11 
a.m., Senate resume consideration of the nomination; 
that there be one hour for debate equally divided in 
the usual form prior to the cloture vote. Page S8140 

Judicial Nominations—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that at 

4:30 p.m., on Monday, December 5, 2011, Senate 
begin consideration of the nominations of Edgardo 
Ramos, of Connecticut, to be United States District 
Judge for the Southern District of New York, Andrew 
L. Carter, Jr., of New York, to be United 
States District Judge for the Southern District of 
New York, James Rodney Gilstrap, of Texas, to be 
United States District Judge for the Eastern District 
of Texas, and Dana L. Christensen, of Montana, to 
be United States District Judge for the District of 
Montana, under the order of Friday, November 18, 
2011. Page S8159 
Nominations Received: Senate received the following 
nominations: 

Marilyn B. Tavenner, of Virginia, to be Administrator 
of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services. 

A routine list in the Army. Page S8159 
Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notification 
of withdrawal of the following nomination: 

Donald M. Berwick, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator 
of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services, which was sent to the Senate on January 
26, 2011. Page S8159 

Messages from the House: Page S8146 
Measures Placed on the Calendar: 

Pages S8079, S8146 
Executive Communications: Pages S8146–48 
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S8148 
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S8149–51 
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions: 

Pages S8151–57 
Additional Statements: Pages S8144–45 
Amendments Submitted: Page S8157 
Notices of Hearings/Meetings: Page S8157 

Authorities for Committees to Meet: 

Pages S8157–58 

Privileges of the Floor: Page S8158 

Record Votes: Eight record votes were taken today. 
(Total—220) Pages S8107–08, S8125–27, S8137, S8139 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and 
adjourned at 9:52 p.m., until 2 p.m. on Monday, 
December 5, 2011. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks 
of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s 
Record on page S8159.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

WALL STREET REFORM AND CONSUMER 
PROTECTION ACT OVERSIGHT 

Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Committee 
concluded a hearing to examine continuing 
oversight of the ‘‘Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act,’’ after receiving testimony from Gary 
Gensler, Chairman, Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission; and Mary L. Schapiro, Chairman, U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission. 

JOB GROWTH THROUGH CAPITAL 
FORMATION 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: 

Committee concluded a hearing to examine spurring 
job growth through capital formation while protecting 
investors, including S. 1791, to amend the 
securities laws to provide for registration exemptions 
for certain crowdfunded securities, S. 1831, to direct 
the Securities and Exchange Commission to eliminate 
the prohibition against general solicitation as a 
requirement for a certain exemption under Regulation 
D, S. 1824, to amend the securities laws to establish 
certain thresholds for shareholder registration 
under that Act, S. 1544, to amend the Securities Act 


D1300 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 1, 2011 

of 1933 to require the Securities and Exchange Commission 
to exempt a certain class of securities from 
such Act, and H.R. 2930, to amend the securities 
laws to provide for registration exemptions for certain 
crowdfunded securities, after receiving testimony 
from Senators Hutchison, Pryor, and Brown 
(MA); Meredith B. Cross, Director, Division of Corporation 
Finance, United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission; Jack E. Herstein, Assistant Director, 
Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance, 
Bureau of Statistics, Washington, D.C., on 
behalf of the North American Securities Administrators 
Association, Inc.; John C. Coffee, Jr., Columbia 
University Law School, Scott Cutler, NYSE 
Euronext, and Edward S. Knight, NASDAQ OMX 
Group, all of New York, New York; and Christopher 
T. Gheysens, Wawa, Inc., Wawa, Pennsylvania. 


IRAN 

Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded 
a hearing to examine United States strategic objectives 
towards Iran, after receiving testimony from 
Wendy Sherman, Under Secretary of State for Political 
Affairs; and David S. Cohen, Under Secretary of 
the Treasury for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence. 


MEDICATING AMERICA’S FOSTER 
CHILDREN 

Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs: 
Subcommittee on Federal Financial Management, 
Government Information, Federal Services, 
and International Security concluded a hearing to examine 
the financial and societal costs of medicating 
America’s foster children, focusing on if the Department 
of Health and Human Services’ guidance could 
help states improve oversight of psychotropic prescriptions, 
after receiving testimony from Gregory D. 
Kutz, Director, Forensic Audits and Investigative 
Service, Government Accountability Office; Bryan 
Samuels, Commissioner, Administration on Children, 
Youth and Families, Administration for Children 
and Families, Department of Health and Human 
Services; Matt Salo, National Association of Medicaid 
Directors (NAMD), Alexandria, Virginia; Jon 
McClellan, University of Washington, Seattle; and 
Ke’onte Cook, McKinney, Texas. 

INSIDER TRADING AND CONGRESSIONAL 
ACCOUNTABILITY 

Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs: 
Committee concluded a hearing to examine insider 
trading and congressional accountability, including 
S. 1871, to prohibit commodities and secu


rities trading based on nonpublic information relating 
to Congress, to require additional reporting by 
Members and employees of Congress of securities 
transactions, and S. 1903, to prohibit commodities 
and securities trading based on nonpublic information 
relating to Congress, to require additional reporting 
by Members and employees of Congress of 
securities transactions, after receiving testimony from 
Senators Gillibrand and Brown (MA); Melanie Sloan, 
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, 
Donald C. Langevoort, Georgetown University 
Law Center, and Robert L. Walker, Wiley Rein 
LLP, all of Washington, D.C.; Donna M. Nagy, Indiana 
University Maurer School of Law, Bloomington; 
and John C. Coffee, Jr., Columbia University 
Law School, New York, New York. 

DEFICIT REDUCTION AND JOB CREATION 

Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee concluded an 
oversight hearing to examine deficit reduction and 
job creation, focusing on regulatory reform in Indian 
country, including S. 1684, to amend the Indian 
Tribal Energy Development and Self-Determination 
Act of 2005, after receiving testimony from Doug 
O’Brien, Deputy Under Secretary of the Interior for 
Rural Development; Geoffrey C. Blackwell, Chief, 
Office of Native Affairs and Policy, Federal Communications 
Commission; Jefferson Keel, and Jacqueline 
Johnson-Pata, both of the National Congress of 
American Indians, Washington, D.C.; Ben Shelly, 
Navajo Nation, Window Rock, Arizona; Cedric 
Cromwell, Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe, Mashpee, 
Massachusetts; and Pearl E. Casias, Southern Ute Indian 
Tribe, Ignacio, Colorado. 

BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on the Judiciary: Committee ordered favorably 
reported the following business items: 

S. 1792, to clarify the authority of the United 
States Marshals Service to assist other Federal, State, 
and local law enforcement agencies in the investigation 
of cases involving sex offenders and missing 
children; 
S. 671, to authorize the United States Marshals 
Service to issue administrative subpoenas in investigations 
relating to unregistered sex offenders, with 
an amendment in the nature of a substitute; and 
The nominations of Jacqueline H. Nguyen, of 
California, to be United States Circuit Judge for the 
Ninth Circuit, Gregg Jeffrey Costa, to be United 
States District Judge for the Southern District of 
Texas, and David Campos Guaderrama, to be United 
States District Judge for the Western District of 
Texas. 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1301 


D1302 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 1, 2011 

House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 15 public 
bills, H.R. 3533–3547; and 4 resolutions, H. 
Con. Res. 91; and H. Res. 480–482 were introduced. 
Pages H8074–76 

Additional Cosponsors: Page H8076 

Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows: 

H.R. 2845, to amend title 49, United States 
Code, to provide for enhanced safety and environmental 
protection in pipeline transportation, to provide 
for enhanced reliability in the transportation of 
the Nation’s energy products by pipeline, and for 
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept. 
112–297 Pt. 1); 
S. 535, to authorize the Secretary of the Interior 
to lease certain lands within Fort Pulaski National 
Monument, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 
112–298); 
H.R. 1158, to authorize the conveyance of mineral 
rights by the Secretary of the Interior in the 
State of Montana, and for other purposes, with an 
amendment (Rept. 112–299); 
H.R. 2172, to facilitate the development of wind 
energy resources on Federal lands, with an amendment 
(H. Rept. 112–300 Pt. 1); 
H.R. 2842, to authorize all Bureau of Reclamation 
conduit facilities for hydropower development 
under Federal Reclamation law, and for other purposes, 
with an amendment (H. Rept. 112–301); 
H.R. 2803, to direct the Secretary of the Interior, 
acting through the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, 
Regulation and Enforcement, to conduct a 
technological capability assessment, survey, and economic 
feasibility study regarding recovery of minerals, 
other than oil and natural gas, from the shallow 
and deep seabed of the United States, with 
amendments (H. Rept. 112–302); 
H.R. 2578, to amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
Act related to a segment of the Lower Merced River 
in California, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 
112–303); 
H.R. 2360, to amend the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act to extend the Constitution, laws, and jurisdiction 
of the United States to installations and 
devices attached to the seabed of the Outer Continental 
Shelf for the production and support of production 
of energy from sources other than oil and 
gas, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 112–304); 
H.R. 2351, to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
to continue stocking fish in certain lakes in the 
North Cascades National Park, Ross Lake National 
Recreation Area, and Lake Chelan National Recreation 
Area (H. Rept. 112–305); 

H.R. 1556, to amend the Omnibus Indian Advancement 
Act to allow certain land to be used to 
generate income to provide funding for academic 
programs, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 
112–306); 
H.R. 1461, to authorize the Mescalero Apache 
Tribe to lease adjudicated water rights (H. Rept. 
112–307); 
H.R. 991, to amend the Marine Mammal Protection 
Act of 1972 to allow importation of polar bear 
trophies taken in sport hunts in Canada before the 
date the polar bear was determined to be a threatened 
species under the Endangered Species Act of 
1973, with an amendment (H. Rept. 112–308); 
H.R. 850, to facilitate a proposed project in the 
Lower St. Croix Wild and Scenic River, and for 
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept. 
112–309); 
H.R. 306, to direct the Secretary of the Interior 
to enter into an agreement to provide for management 
of the free-roaming wild horses in and around 
the Currituck National Wildlife Refuge, with an 
amendment (H. Rept. 112–310); and 
H. Res. 479, providing for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 10) to amend chapter 8 of title 5, United 
States Code, to provide that major rules of the executive 
branch shall have no force or effect unless a 
joint resolution of approval is enacted into law, and 
for other purposes (H. Rept. 112–311). Page H8074 
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he 
appointed Representative West to act as Speaker pro 
tempore for today. Page H8001 

Recess: The House recessed at 11:28 a.m. and reconvened 
at 12 noon. Page H8011 

Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the guest chaplain, 
Reverend Dr. Cathy Jones, Parkwood Institutional 
CME Church, Charlotte, North Carolina. 

Page H8011 

Terminating taxpayer financing of presidential 
election campaigns and party conventions and 
terminating the Election Assistance Commission: 

The House passed H.R. 3463, to reduce Federal 
spending and the deficit by terminating taxpayer financing 
of presidential election campaigns and party 
conventions and by terminating the Election Assistance 
Commission, by a recorded vote of 235 ayes to 
190 noes, Roll No. 873. Pages H8016–32, H8032–34 

Rejected the Bishop (GA) motion to recommit the 
bill to the Committee on House Administration 
with instructions to report the same back to the 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1303 

House forthwith with an amendment, by a yea-and-
nay vote of 190 yeas to 236 nays, Roll No. 872. 

Pages H8032–34 

H. Res. 477, the rule that is providing for consideration 
of H.R. 3463, H.R. 527, and H.R. 3010, 
was agreed to yesterday, November 30th. 
Recess: The House recessed at 1:56 p.m. and reconvened 
at 2:05 p.m. Page H8032 

Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 
2011: The House passed H.R. 527, to amend chapter 
6 of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
known as the Regulatory Flexibility Act), to ensure 
complete analysis of potential impacts on small entities 
of rules, by a recorded vote of 263 ayes to 159 
noes, Roll No. 880. Pages H8034–56 

Rejected the Loretta Sanchez motion to recommit 
the bill to the Committee on the Judiciary with instructions 
to report the same back to the House 
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of 
188 ayes to 233 noes, Roll No. 879. Pages H8054–55 

Pursuant to the rule, the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute consisting of the text of the 
Rules Committee Print dated November 18, 2011 
shall be considered as an original bill for the purpose 
of amendment under the five-minute rule, in lieu of 
the amendments in the nature of a substitute recommended 
by the Committees on the Judiciary and 
Small Business now printed in the bill. Page H8041 

Agreed to: 

Critz amendment (No. 1 printed in part A of H. 
Rept. 112–296) that requires the estimated cumulative 
impact on small businesses of any other rule 
stemming from the implementation of the Free 
Trade Agreements. Page H8044 

Rejected: 

Jackson Lee amendment (No. 2 printed in part A 
of H. Rept. 112–296) that sought to exempt all 
rules promulgated by the Department of Homeland 
Security (by a recorded vote of 173 ayes to 244 noes, 
Roll No. 874); Pages H8044–46, H8050–51 

Cohen amendment (No. 3 printed in part A of H. 
Rept. 112–296) that sought to exempt from the bill 
any rule that relates to food safety, workplace safety, 
consumer products safety, air or water quality (by a 
recorded vote of 171 ayes to 248 noes, Roll No. 
875); Pages H8046–47, H8051 

Peters amendment (No. 4 printed in part A of H. 
Rept. 112–296) that sought to exempt from the bill 
all rules that OMB determines would result in net 
job creation (by a recorded vote of 179 ayes to 243 
noes, Roll No. 876); Pages H8047–48, H8052 

Jackson Lee amendment (No. 5 printed in part A 
of H. Rept. 112–296) that sought to require a GAO 
report to determine the cost of carrying out the Act 
and the effect it will have on federal agency rule 

making. In addition, the report would need to contain 
information on the impact of repealing the ability 
of an agency to waive provisions in the Regulatory 
Flexibility Act when responding to an emergency 
(by a recorded vote of 172 ayes to 250 noes, 
Roll No. 877); and Pages H8048–49, H8052–53 

Johnson (GA) amendment (No. 6 printed in part 
A of H. Rept. 112–296) that sought to create an exception 
for any rule making to carry out the FDA 
Food Safety Modernization Act (by a recorded vote 
of 170 ayes to 250 noes, Roll No. 878). 

Pages H8049–50, H8053–54 

H. Res. 477, the rule that is providing for consideration 
of H.R. 3463, H.R. 527, and H.R. 3010, 
was agreed to yesterday, November 30th. 
Suspension—Proceedings Resumed: The House 
agreed to suspend the rules and agree to the following 
measure which was debated on November 
30th: 

Designating room HVC 215 of the Capitol Visitor 
Center as the ‘‘Gabriel Zimmerman Meeting 
Room’’: H. Res. 364, to designate room HVC 215 
of the Capitol Visitor Center as the ‘‘Gabriel Zimmerman 
Meeting Room’’, by a 2/3 yea-and-nay vote 
of 419 yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 881. 

Pages H8056–57 

Senate Message: Message received from the Senate 
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the 
House today appears on page H8011–12 . 

Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes and 
eight recorded votes developed during the proceedings 
of today and appear on pages H8033–34, 
H8034, H8050–51, H8051, H8052, H8052–53, 
H8053, H8055, H8055–56, H8056–57. There were 
no quorum calls. 

Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and adjourned 
at 8:37 p.m. 

Committee Meetings 

USDA INSPECTOR GENERAL AUDITS 

Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Department 
Operations, Oversight, and Credit held a hearing 
to review updates on USDA Inspector General 
Audits, including SNAP fraud detection efforts and 
IT compliance. Testimony was heard from Phyllis K. 
Fong, Inspector General, Office of Inspector General, 
Department of Agriculture. 

MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES 

Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on 
Communications and Technology held a markup of 
the ‘‘Jumpstarting Opportunity with Broadband 
Spectrum (JOBS) Act of 2011.’’ The bill was forwarded, 
as amended. 


D1304 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 1, 2011 

FHA SINGLE-FAMILY INSURANCE FUND 

Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held 
a hearing entitled ‘‘Perspectives on the Health of the 
FHA Single-family Insurance Fund.’’ Testimony was 
heard from Mathew Scire, Director, Financial Markets 
and Community Investment, Government Accountability 
Office; and public witnesses. 

FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY 

Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on 
Oversight and Investigations held a hearing entitled 
‘‘Oversight of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.’’ 
Testimony was heard from Edward J. DeMarco, Acting 
Director, Federal Housing Finance Agency; and 
public witnesses. 

DEMOCRACY HELD HOSTAGE IN 
NICARAGUA 

Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a 
hearing entitled ‘‘Democracy Held Hostage in Nicaragua: 
Part I.’’ Testimony was heard from public 
witnesses. 

MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES 

Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a 
markup of the following: H.R. 2572, the ‘‘Clean Up 
Government Act of 2001’’; and H.R. 1433, the 
‘‘Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2011’’. 

H.R. 2572 was ordered reported, as amended. The 
Committee began markup of H.R. 1433. 
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES 

Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held 
a hearing on the following: H.R. 594, the ‘‘Coastal 
Jobs Creation Act of 2011’’; H.R. 1013, the 
‘‘Strengthen Fisheries Management in New England 
Act of 2011’’; H.R. 1646, the ‘‘American Angler 
Preservation Act’’; H.R. 2304, the ‘‘Fishery Science 
Improvement Act of 2011’’; H.R. 2610, the ‘‘Asset 
Forfeiture Fund Reform and Distribution Act of 
2011’’; H.R. 2753, the ‘‘Fishery Management Transparency 
and Accountability Act’’; H.R. 2772, the 
‘‘Saving Fishing Jobs Act of 2011’’; and H.R. 3061, 
the ‘‘Flexibility and Access in Rebuilding American 
Fisheries Act of 2011’’. Testimony was heard from 
Rep. Frank of Massachusetts; Rep. Pallone; Rep. 
Jones; Rep. Wittman; Rep. Runyan; Rep. Keating; 
Eric Schwaab, Assistant Administrator, National Marine 
Fisheries Service; and public witnesses. 

HHS AND THE CATHOLIC CHURCH 

Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: Full 
Committee held a hearing entitled ‘‘HHS and the 
Catholic Church: Examining the Politicization of 
Grants.’’ Testimony was heard from George Sheldon, 
Acting Assistant Secretary, Administration for Children 
and Families, Department of Health and 

Human Services; and Eskinder Negash, Director, Office 
of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for 
Children and Families, Department of Health and 
Human Services. 

REGULATIONS FROM THE EXECUTIVE IN 
NEED OF SCRUTINY ACT OF 2011 

Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on 

H.R. 10, the ‘‘Regulations from the Executive in 
Need of Scrutiny Act of 2011.’’ The Committee 
granted, by a vote of 6 to 4, a structured rule providing 
one hour of general debate equally divided 
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on the Judiciary. The rule 
waives all points of order against consideration of the 
bill. The rule provides that the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee 
on Rules now printed in the bill, as modified 
by the amendment in part A of the Rules Committee 
report, shall be considered as adopted. The 
rule provides that the bill, as amended, shall be considered 
as original text for the purpose of further 
amendment and shall be considered as read. The rule 
waives all points of order against provisions in the 
bill, as amended. The rule makes in order only those 
further amendments printed in part B of the Rules 
Committee report. Each such amendment may be offered 
only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, 
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable 
for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be 
subject to a demand for division of the question. The 
rule waives all points of order against the amendments 
printed in part B of the Rules Committee report. 
The rule provides one motion to recommit 
with or without instructions. 
The rule provides that during any recess or adjournment 
of not more than three days, if in the 
opinion of the Speaker the public interest so warrants, 
then the Speaker or his designee, after consultation 
with the Minority Leader, may reconvene 
the House at a time other than that previously appointed, 
within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article 
I of the Constitution, and notify Members accordingly. 
Finally, the rule provides that clause 3 of 
rule XXIX shall apply to the availability requirements 
for a conference report and the accompanying 
joint statement under clause 8(a)(1) of rule XXII. 

Testimony was heard from Rep. Gowdy; Rep. 
Johnson of Georgia; and Rep. Sessions. 

MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES 

Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Committee 
held a markup of H.R. 3479, the Natural 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1305 

Hazards Risk Reduction Act of 2011. The bill was 
ordered reported, as amended. 

CYBER SECURITY: PROTECTING YOUR 
SMALL BUSINESS 

Committee on Small Business: Subcommittee on 
Healthcare and Technology held a hearing entitled 
‘‘Cyber Security: Protecting Your Small Business.’’ 
Testimony was heard from Rep. Thornberry; and 
public witnesses. 

COAST GUARD OPERATIONS IN THE 
ARCTIC 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Subcommittee 
on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation 
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting U.S. Sovereignty: 
Coast Guard Operations in the Arctic.’’ 
Testimony was heard from Admiral Robert J. Papp, 
Commandant, United States Coast Guard; and Mead 
Treadwell, Lieutenant Governor, Alaska. 

MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES 

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full 
Committee held a markup of the ‘‘Cyber Intelligence 
Sharing and Protection Act of 2011.’’ The bill was 
ordered reported, as amended. 

Joint Meetings 

No joint committee meetings were held. 

f 

COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY, 
DECEMBER 2, 2011 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

No meetings/hearings scheduled. 

House 

Committee on Agriculture, Full Committee, business 
meeting to consider the issuance of a subpoena to compel 
the attendance of a witness at the subsequent hearing to 
examine the MF Global Bankruptcy, 9:30 a.m., 1300 
Longworth. 

Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on Energy 
and Power, hearing entitled ‘‘Expediting the Keystone 
XL Pipeline: Energy Security and Jobs.’’ 10 a.m., 
2123 Rayburn. 

Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water 
and Power, hearing on the following: H.R. 976, to terminate 
certain hydropower reservations, and for other pur


poses; and H.R. 3263, the ‘‘Lake Thunderbird Efficient 
Use Act of 2011.’’ 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth. 

Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public 
Lands, hearing on the following: H.R. 1038, to authorize 
the conveyance of two small parcels of land within the 
boundaries of the Coconino National Forest containing 
private improvements that were developed based upon the 
reliance of the landowners in an erroneous survey conducted 
in May 1960; H.R. 1237, to provide for a land 
exchange with the Trinity Public Utilities District of 
Trinity County, California, involving the transfer of land 
to the Bureau of Land Management and the Six Rivers 
National Forest in exchange for National Forest System 
land in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest, and for other 
purposes; H.R. 2157, to facilitate a land exchange involving 
certain National Forest System lands in the Inyo National 
Forest, and for other purposes; H.R. 2490, to 
amend the National Trails System Act to provide for a 
study of the Cascadia Marine Trail; H.R. 2504, the 
‘‘Coltsville National Historical Park Act’’; H.R. 2745 to 
amend the Mesquite Lands Act of 1986 to facilitate implementation 
of a multispecies habitat conservation plan 
for the Virgin River in Clark County, Nevada; H.R. 
2947, to provide for the release of the reversionary interest 
held by the United States in certain land conveyed by 
the United States in 1950 for the establishment of an airport 
in Cook County, Minnesota; H.R. 3222, to designate 
certain National Park System land in Olympic National 
Park as wilderness or potential wilderness, and for 
other purposes; H.R. 3452, the ‘‘Wasatch Range Recreation 
Access Enhancement Act’’; and S. 684, to provide 
for the conveyance of certain parcels of land to the town 
of Alta, Utah. 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth. 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Full Committee, hearing 
on Understanding and Preventing Veteran Suicide, 10 
a.m., 334 Cannon. 

Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Social 
Security, hearing series entitled ‘‘Securing the Future of 
the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) Program.’’ 
The focus of this hearing is the history of the disability 
insurance program, the income security it provides and 
its financing challenges. 10:30 a.m., B–318 Rayburn. 

Joint Meetings 

Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to hold 
hearings to examine combating anti-Semitism in the Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe region, 
focusing on taking stock of the situation today, including 
initiatives designed to target violent and other manifestations 
on anti-Semitism in the fifty-six North American 
and European countries that comprise the Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), 10 a.m., 
2203, Rayburn Building. 


D1306 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 1, 2011 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED TWELFTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 5 through November 30, 2011 

Senate House Total 
Days in session .................................... 155 156 . . 
Time in session ................................... 1,014 hrs., 41' 903 hrs., 15' .. 
Congressional Record: 
Pages of proceedings ................... 8,078 8,000 . . 
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 2,143 . . 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 17 45 62 
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . . 
Bills in conference ............................... 2 2 . . 
Measures passed, total ......................... 368 326 . . 
Senate bills .................................. 52 15 . . 
House bills .................................. 49 157 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 4 3 . . 
House joint resolutions ............... 3 5 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 17 6 . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... 14 20 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 229 120 . . 
Measures reported, total ...................... *170 *266 436 
Senate bills .................................. 121 2 . . 
House bills .................................. 20 179 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 . . . . 
House joint resolutions ............... . . 3 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 2 . . . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 26 80 . . 
Special reports ..................................... 15 29 . . 
Conference reports ............................... 1 1 . . 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 164 73 . . 
Measures introduced, total .................. 2,336 4,191 6,527 
Bills ............................................. 1,932 3,532 . . 
Joint resolutions .......................... 32 91 . . 
Concurrent resolutions ................ 32 90 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 340 478 . . 
Quorum calls ....................................... 5 3 . . 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 212 245 . . 
Recorded votes .................................... . . 622** . . 
Bills vetoed ......................................... . . . . . . 
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . . 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 97 written reports have been filed in the Senate, 
296 reports have been filed in the House. 
** Proceedings on Roll Call No. 484 were vacated by unanimous consent. 

DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 5 through November 30, 2011 
Civilian nominations, totaling 482, disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 275 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 193 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 14 

Other Civilian nominations, totaling 3,451, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,743 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 703 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 5 

Air Force nominations, totaling 5,956, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 5,516 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 440 

Army nominations, totaling 5,789, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 5,246 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 543 

Navy nominations, totaling 3,405, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 3,340 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 65 

Marine Corps nominations, totaling 1,249, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,249 

Summary 

Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 0 
Total nominations received this Session ................................................ 20,332 
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 18,369 
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 1,944 
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 19 
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0 


December 1, 2011 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1307 

Next Meeting of the SENATE 

2 p.m., Monday, December 5 

Senate Chamber 

Program for Monday: After the transaction of any 
morning business (not to extend beyond 4:30 p.m.), Senate 
will begin consideration of the nominations of 
Edgardo Ramos, of Connecticut, to be United States District 
Judge for the Southern District of New York, Andrew 
L. Carter, Jr., of New York, to be United States 
District Judge for the Southern District of New York, 
James Rodney Gilstrap, of Texas, to be United States 
District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, and Dana 

L. Christensen, of Montana, to be United States District 
Judge for the District of Montana, with votes on confirmation 
of the nominations at 5:30 p.m. 
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
9 a.m., Friday, December 2 

House Chamber 

Program for Friday: Consideration of H.R. 3010—Regulatory 
Accountability Act of 2011 (Subject to a Rule). 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

HOUSE Garrett, Scott, N.J., E2153 Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E2160 
Gonzalez, Charles A., Tex., E2153 Rangel, Charles B., N.Y., E2146, E2151, E2154, E2156, 
Braley, Bruce L., Iowa, E2147 Himes, James A., Conn., E2155 E2158 
Burton, Dan, Ind., E2153 Holt, Rush D., N.J., E2145 

Richardson, Laura, Calif., E2159

Cantor, Eric, Va., E2149 Jackson, Jesse L., Jr., Ill., E2150, E2152 

Rigell, E. Scott, Va., E2149

Cardoza, Dennis A., Calif., E2148 Johnson, Henry C. ‘‘Hank’’, Jr., Ga., E2145, E2146, 

Rokita, Todd, Ind., E2161

Coffman, Mike, Colo., E2157 E2147, E2151, E2153, E2155, E2157, E2159, E2160, E2161 

Ross, Mike, Ark., E2147

Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E2159 Keating, William R., Mass., E2150 
Costello, Jerry F., Ill., E2157 Kildee, Dale E., Mich., E2158 

Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E2151, E2160 
Davis, Danny K., Ill., E2158, E2160 Kingston, Jack, Ga., E2149 Towns, Edolphus, N.Y., E2145, E2146, E2147, E2148 
Davis, Geoff, Ky., E2156 Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E2152 Turner, Michael R., Ohio, E2149 
Denham, Jeff, Calif., E2148, E2146, E2151, E2154, E2155, Myrick, Sue Wilkins, N.C., E2152 Van Hollen, Chris, Md., E2154, E2158 
E2157 Norton, Eleanor Holmes, D.C., E2147 

Walden, Greg, Ore., E2150 
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E2159 Olver, John W., Mass., E2155 

Waxman, Henry A., Calif., E2156

Donnelly, Joe, Ind., E2152 Owens, William L., N.Y., E2152 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage 
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House 
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are 
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United 
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when 
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through 
the U.S. Government Printing Office at www.fdsys.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the 
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Printing Office. 
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ The Congressional Record paper and 24x microfiche edition will 
be furnished by mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $252.00 for six months, $503.00 per year, or 
purchased as follows: less than 200 pages, $10.50; between 200 and 400 pages, $21.00; greater than 400 pages, $31.50, payable in advance; 
microfiche edition, $146.00 per year, or purchased for $3.00 per issue payable in advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be 
purchased for the same per issue prices. To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S. Government Online Bookstore at: 
bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO 63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 
(toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or 
use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶Following each session of Congress, the daily Congressional 
Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents in individual parts or by sets. ¶With the 
exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from the Congressional Record. 
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received. 


