UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.05.15 15:34:58 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 106th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 145 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JUNE 8, 1999 No. 80 

House of Representatives 

The House met at 9 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Speaker pro tempore 
(Mr. GIBBONS). 

f 


DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO 
TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

June 8, 1999. 

I hereby appoint the Honorable JIM GIBBONS 
to act as Speaker pro tempore on this 
day. 

J. DENNIS HASTERT, 
Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 


MORNING HOUR DEBATES 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the order of the House of January 
19, 1999, the Chair will now recognize 
Members from lists submitted by 
the majority and minority leaders for 
morning hour debates. The Chair will 
alternate recognition between the parties, 
with each party limited to 25 minutes, 
and each Member, except the majority 
leader, the minority leader, or 
the minority whip, limited to 5 minutes 
each, but in no event shall debate 
continue beyond 9:50 a.m. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. DOGGETT) for 5 minutes. 


f 


THE ABUSIVE TAX SHELTER 
SHUTDOWN ACT OF 1999 

Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, long 
ago, Will Rogers suggested that, ‘‘people 
want just taxes even more than 
they want lower taxes. They want to 
know that every man is paying his proportionate 
share according to his 
wealth.’’ 

Today, some of our worst tax inequities 
arise from those who use abusive 
tax shelters to exploit loopholes in the 
Tax Code. To stop these, and to make 

our tax system more fair and just, I am 
introducing the Abusive Tax Shelter 
Shutdown Act of 1999. 

Forbes Magazine, which proudly proclaims 
itself ‘‘The Capitalist Tool,’’ recently 
reported on, as the cover of the 
magazine says, what are called ‘‘Tax 
Shelter Hustlers: Respectable accountants 
are peddling dicey corporate tax 
loopholes.’’ Here on the cover, we see 
the fellow with the fedora standing in 
the shadows. Unlike those supermarket 
tabloid stories about UFO abductions, 
with this particular cover, the substance 
inside actually lives up to the 
teaser on the cover. It is true that 
most abusive tax shelters are already 
against the law. The problem is that 
every time we shut down one, more 
spring up. That is not by accident because, 
as Forbes also reported, some of 
the Big 5 accounting firms actually 
have teams of staffers, and my guess is 
that most of them dress a little better 
than this fellow does, who are out 
there and have as their job to come up 
with one new tax shelter every single 
week. 

Deploring what he calls the ‘‘energy, 
creativity and viciousness’’ of these so-
called ‘‘shelter shops,’’ Calvin Johnson, 
a professor of tax law at the University 
of Texas, has labeled these hustling operations 
‘‘skunk works’’ because of the 
sorry odor surrounding their fouling of 
our tax system. The literal hustling of 
improper tax shelters is so commonplace 
that one representative of a 
Texas-based multinational corporation 
has recently indicated that he gets a 
cold call every day from someone 
hawking or hustling one of these shelters. 


Some are even called black box proposals. 
They are kept under wraps and 
they are not offered to any but a select 
few so as to avoid public notoriety. As 
a partner at one national firm boasted, 
‘‘A whale cannot get harpooned unless 
it surfaces for air.’’ 

What a whale-sized gulp of arrogance 
toward honest taxpayers everywhere 

who dutifully file our returns on April 
15 and who have to make up for the 
taxes that the big boys dodge. 

My legislation will curtail egregious 
behavior without impacting legitimate 
business deals. It will eliminate the 
well-justified feeling that these high 
rollers are cheating and gaming the 
system, a feeling which leads to distrust 
and disrespect on behalf of our 
taxpaying public. 

This bill seeks to shut down abusive 
tax shelters by prohibiting loss generators. 
These are transactions that lack 
any legitimate business purpose that 
are ginned up just to obtain another 
tax loss, credit or deduction in order to 
dodge taxes. 

The second thing the bill does is it 
says that a company which thinks it 
has a proper shelter will be required to 
provide complete, clear and concise 
disclosure, verified by a corporate officer. 
This does not make them forfeit 
their buried pirate treasure but on 
these complex transactions it does require 
them to give up the map where X 
marks the spot of the treasure. 

These disclosure provisions were 
drafted based on the sound advice of 
tax practitioners; not the kind of practitioner 
that is proud to define their 
success by having another loophole 
named after them, but the thoughtful 
commentary of the tax section of the 
American Bar Association. 

The third provision is directed to the 
penalty for tax dodging, and we tighten 
and increase the penalty for such tax 
dodging. Just getting some thick carpet, 
downtown lawyer to bless what the 
accounting department has contrived 
with the help of these tax shelter 
hustlers is no longer going to be sufficient 
to save a corporation from penalties 
if it has clearly stepped over the 
line with an abusive tax shelter. 

These abusive tax shelters have 
grown and have become so extensive 
that some experts estimate that they 
account for $10 billion a year in lost 

bb

This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 

. 
H3767 


H3768 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

tax revenue. Typical is a recent ad selling 
a guide to offshore tax shelters 
that ran in the Wall Street Journal. 
Featuring a happy, smiling, bikini-clad 
couple, sipping cocktails on the beach, 
obviously enjoying the good life at 
someone else’s expense, the ad promised, 
‘‘Live simply and easily make a 
tax-free fortune using the world’s most 
exotic places,’’ and you can do all this, 
it claimed, ‘‘in complete privacy and 
full protection from everyone, including 
your spouse, competitors, partners 
and more.’’ 

Such schemes suggest the challenge 
that we face. Surely if locally owned 
businesses in central Texas can play by 
the rules, the big boys should, too. The 
Abusive Tax Shelter Shutdown Act is 
not a panacea but it will help law enforcement 
close some loopholes, eliminate 
the sham transactions and stop 
the hustlers. 

As we say in Texas, move ’em out and 
shut ’em down. 

f 


TURKEY MUST ACCEPT KURDISH 
PEACE OFFER 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
19, 1999, the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. PALLONE) is recognized 
during morning hour debates for 5 minutes. 


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, there 
are some who call it the ‘‘trial of the 
century.’’ Abdullah Ocalan, the imprisoned 
Kurdish rebel leader, is on trial 
before a Turkish military tribunal. The 
trial could hardly be called fair. Mr. 
Ocalan, who faces the death penalty if 
convicted, has been denied access to his 
lawyers. His legal team has faced a pattern 
of harassment and threats. 

The Turkish government and media 
have stirred up nationalistic passions 
against Mr. Ocalan. If the Turkish government 
forges ahead with legally railroading 
Mr. Ocalan and the threat to 
hang him is carried out, the result 
would be disastrous for all the people 
of the region. Yet interestingly 
enough, the trial of Mr. Ocalan has created 
a potentially positive and long 
overdue opening towards reconciliation 
between the Turkish and Kurdish peoples. 


Standing in the dock at his show 
trial, Mr. Ocalan made a brave plea for 
a negotiated, Democratic solution to 
the Kurdish question. Mr. Ocalan’s organization, 
the Kurdish workers’s 
party known as the PKK, has announced 
its support for Mr. Ocalan’s 
peace offer. With the media attention 
that the trial is attracting, putting the 
Kurdish issue in the spotlight to an almost 
unprecedented degree, Turkey 
could vastly improve its international 
standing by simply agreeing to begin 
negotiations with the Kurdish leaders 
but, sadly, Mr. Speaker, so far the 
Turkish government has rejected the 
path to peace insisting that it will not 
negotiate with Mr. Ocalan or any leaders 
of the Kurdish movement. 

Yesterday’s Washington Post had an 
editorial entitled, ‘‘Turkey’s Kurdish 

Opening,’’ which begins with these 
words: ‘‘Turkey may have a once in a 
generation opening to treat its national 
cancer, the problem of its aggrieved 
Turkish minority.’’ 

The editorial in the Post, a paper 
that has previously shown sympathy to 
the Turkish point of view on a number 
of issues, notes that the Turkish policy 
of relentless military and political attack 
on the Kurdish movement dooms 
Turkey to a conflict that sets it at 
odds with the human Democratic values 
of the western nations whose company 
it most values. 

That is the bind, Mr. Speaker, that 
Turkey has put itself into. Turkey is a 
member of NATO and has sought membership 
in the European Union, so far 
unsuccessfully. At the same time, Turkey 
continues not only to wage a dirty 
war against a minority community 
within its borders but to repress and 
essentially deny the existence of a distinct 
Kurdish identity, language or culture. 


In the meantime, Turkey’s economic 
development, levels of education, infrastructure, 
development and standard of 
living, lag far behind European standards 
while scarce resources are squandered 
on its ongoing war against the 
Kurds. It is a cycle that must be broken. 


As The Washington Post editorial 
concludes, ‘‘Friends of Turkey must 
hope it can muster the courage to 
broaden its perspective and to conduct 
an honest exploration of the Ocalan 
initiative.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, two recent articles in 
the New York Times suggest unfortunately 
that the Turkish political and 
military establishment is a long way 
from making this major leap. Last Friday, 
it was reported that Turkey’s best 
known human rights advocate, Akin 
Birdal, entered prison to serve a 91/2 
month sentence for giving speeches 
judged subversive. 

What was his subversive activity? 
Mr. Birdal, chairman of the Human 
Rights Association, has repeatedly 
urged the Turkish state to reach a 
peaceful settlement with Kurdish 
rebels. Now, as the article reports, such 
statements constitute support for terrorism 
under Turkish law. This same 
law has recently been used to convict 
two journalists, a university professor 
and an aide to Mr. Birdal. While some 
brave Turks, including the country’s 
top judge, have called for repeal of the 
law, the hardline regime refuses to give 
in. 

Mr. Speaker, in an effort to encourage 
the U.S. Government to play a constructive 
role in heading off the crisis 
in Turkey, my colleague, the gentleman 
from California (Mr. FILNER) 
and I, are circulating a letter this week 
asking our colleagues to sign a letter 
to President Clinton urging his intervention 
to implore that the Turkish 
authorities show some basic fairness in 
trying Mr. Ocalan and to spare his life. 
Seeking a fair trial for Mr. Ocalan 
should be the first step in our efforts to 

press Turkey to enter into negotiations 
to achieve a political solution to this 
tragic struggle. 

Mr. Ocalan and his Kurdish organization 
have offered an olive branch to the 
Turkish government. It would be both 
the decent and the smart thing to do 
for Turkey to accept this good faith 
offer and to embark on the path of 
peace. 

In fact, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Ocalan made several 
previous cease-fire offers prior to his arrest—
all of which were summarily rejected by 
the Turkish government and military officials. 

An article in Sunday’s New York Times further 
describes the hardening of official attitudes 
in Turkey. According to the article, the 
Turkish Interior Ministry has issued a directive 
listing terms that must be used when discussing 
Mr. Ocalan, his movement or Kurds in 
general. The rules are binding on all reporters 
for state-run news agencies. It represents another 
example of the ongoing pattern of inciting 
nationalistic fear and distrust of the PKK, 
while trying to blind the Turkish people to the 
Kurds, their history, their culture and the validity 
of their struggle. 

Mr. Speaker, the Turkish regime refuses to 
even acknowledge the Kurds’ existence, referring 
to them as ‘‘mountain Turks,’’ prohibiting 
all expression of Kurdish culture and language 
in an effort to forcibly assimilate them, while 
jailing, torturing and killing Kurdish leaders. 
The Government of Turkey’s undeclared war 
on the Kurds has claimed close to 40,000 
lives and caused more than 3 million people to 
become refugees. 

f 


RECESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. There 
being no further requests for morning 
hour debates, pursuant to clause 12, 
rule I, the House will stand in recess 
until 10 a.m. 

Accordingly (at 9 o’clock and 11 minutes 
a.m.) the House stood in recess 
until 10 a.m. 

f 


b1000 

AFTER RECESS 

The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker pro 
tempore (Mr. SHAW) at 10 a.m. 

f 


PRAYER 

The Reverend Dr. Peter M. Kurowski, 
St. Paul’s Lutheran Church, California, 
Missouri, offered the following prayer: 

Let us pray. Lord God, enlighten us 
to see that unless You build the house, 
in vain the artisans toil; and unless 
You stand sentry upon a nation, in 
vain do our guardians watch. Open our 
eyes to see Your awesome fingerprints 
in creation, Your amazing footprints in 
the realm of redemption, and Your architectural 
imprints upon the documents 
which helped to give birth to 
this Republic. May these revelations 
move citizens everywhere to walk humbly, 
do justice, and show compassion. 
Inspire a desire in Americans everywhere 
to absorb the Biblical book of 
Ecclesiastes so that as a nation we do 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3769 

not repeat the melancholy moments in and Fort Wayne Senior College. He key requirement of the 1977 law. CRA’s 
history. We ask this in the name of the later attended Concordia Seminary in bank success is meeting people oppor-
Wisdom of the ages, the Savior of sin-St. Louis, Missouri. tunities that safe and sound business 
ners, Jesus Christ. Amen. He has served congregations in St. represents. 

f 


THE JOURNAL 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
SHAW). The Chair has examined the 
Journal of the last day’s proceedings 
and announces to the House his approval 
thereof. 

Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Journal 
stands approved. 

Mr. GIBBONS. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote on 
agreeing to the Chair’s approval of the 
Journal. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the Chair’s approval of 
the Journal. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Mr. GIBBONS. Mr. Speaker, I object 
to the vote on the ground that a 
quorum is not present and make the 
point of order that a quorum is not 
present. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 rule XX, further proceedings 
on this question will be postponed. 


The point of no quorum is considered 
withdrawn. 

f 


PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. 
KNOLLENBERG) come forward and lead 
the House in the Pledge of Allegiance. 

Mr. KNOLLENBERG led the Pledge 
of Allegiance as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 


INTRODUCING THE GUEST 
CHAPLAIN 

(Mr. SKELTON asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I take 
this opportunity to introduce to the 
House the guest chaplain who is with 
us today, the Reverend Dr. Peter M. 
Kurowski. The Reverend is affectionately 
referred to as ‘‘Pastor Pete’’ by 
his congregation at St. Paul’s Lutheran 
Church in California, Missouri, 
which is located in Missouri’s Fourth 
Congressional District. 

In recent years, I have had the privilege 
of getting to know Pastor Pete 
through our discussions of history and 
the Missouri Tigers. I have found his 
spiritual guidance to be uplifting as 
well as inspirational. Pastor Pete, 
along with his wife of 25 years, Janice, 
continue to make such an outstanding 
contribution to their communities. 

A native of Green Bay, Wisconsin, 
Pastor Pete has attended Oshkosh 
State University, Concordia College 

Louis, Missouri, Joylston, Illinois, and 
New Orleans, Louisiana, prior to serving 
the California, Missouri community. 


Pastor Pete is the author of the 
book, Lifelines of Love, and has done 
script writing for the Lutheran Layman 
League animated video ‘‘Red 
Boots for Christmas.’’ He has also written 
a number of theological and sports 
articles for various periodicals. 

I am truly proud to have such a distinguished 
leader from California, Missouri 
give the opening prayer to my 
colleagues here in the House this morning. 


f 


VOTE ‘‘NO’’ ON H.R. 45, NUCLEAR 
WASTE POLICY ACT OF 1999 

(Mr. GIBBONS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. GIBBONS. Mr. Speaker, the Committee 
on Commerce recently amended 

H.R. 45, the Nuclear Waste Policy Act 
of 1999 to exempt the $8 billion Nuclear 
Waste Fund from the Budget Enforcement 
Act. So what does this mean? 
Well, this move to take the nuclear 
waste budget off-budget would open the 
floodgates for unrestricted, uncontrolled 
spending. 
By taking H.R. 45 off-budget, we will 
permit funding increases without the 
necessary offsets and provide for little 
or no congressional oversight and accountability, 
all in the name of nuclear 
waste. 

By fragmenting the budget to accommodate 
nuclear waste interests, we 
would set a dangerous precedent that 
every other trust fund would undoubtedly 
attempt to follow. 

As Members of Congress, we should 
be concerned about any erosion of our 
commitment to budget discipline. Let 
us not forget that there are several 
hundred trusts and special funds in existence 
today, with only Social Security 
and the Postal Service receiving 
this special status of off-budget. 

I would encourage my colleagues to 
uphold their commitment to fiscal responsibility 
and vote ‘‘no’’ on H.R. 45. 
Let us not make nuclear waste more 
important than our Social Security, 
Medicare, seniors and children. 

f 


CRA IS A VITAL SUCCESS STORY 
(Mr. VENTO asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. VENTO. Mr. Speaker, the Community 
Reinvestment Act is a success. 
Community reinvestment means banks 
responding to creditworthy applicants 
in their local neighborhoods or towns. 
Congress must maintain this vital policy, 
not undercut it. 
CRA means safe and sound business 
for financial institutions. That is the 

In my home district, the University 
National Bank is serving Frogtown, an 
inner city community in St. Paul. This 
bank has received an outstanding CRA 
rating for its efforts. 

Amazingly, over 70 percent of the 
loans in University Bank’s portfolio 
qualify for CRA. Of the millions of dollars 
these loans represent, they have 
had losses totaling only $300. These 
loans happened because every year University 
Bank officers are required to 
make 500 calls, person-to-person, getting 
outside the bank. 

In telling the story of improving the 
urban community, Bill Reiling, the 
owner and president of the University 
National Bank, states and I quote, ‘‘Behind 
every statistic is a human success 
story with repercussions that echo and 
multiply a dozen-fold. How do you 
measure the impact of a successful new 
retail business that brings a new job 
base? How do you measure the positive 
effect of revitalizing a decaying neighborhood?’’ 


Mr. Speaker, that is CRA. That is 
how we measure it. 

f 


EGYPT 

(Mr. PITTS asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. PITTS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
out of concern for what is happening in 
the country of Egypt. Our State Department’s 
Country Reports this year 
detail security and police abuses 
against citizens from minority backgrounds. 


The Reports detailed one horrifying 
situation in which police brutalized 
over 1,200 Egyptian Coptik Christians 
in the village of El-Kosheh. The official 
Egyptian report of the incident, in response, 
states that there was no torture 
or abuse. 

Mr. Speaker, look at these photos. 
We can see the wounds made on this 
man’s flesh. We can see in the faces of 
the little children who were dashed to 
the ground and beaten while in their 
mothers’ arms. 

The apparent unwillingness of the 
Egyptian Government to punish police 
officers involved in these human rights 
violations, or even admit that these 
violations occurred is very unfortunate. 


Recent news reports suggest that the 
police officers involved in these human 
rights violations were not only not 
punished but rewarded by the government. 


I urge the Egyptian Government to 
take serious measures to correct police 
brutality and correct the injustices 
perpetrated against the minorities in 
El-Kosheh. 


H3770 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT PEACE AGREEMENT IN KOSOVO taxed for that over and over again over 
HAS BEEN SUCCESSFUL the course of their lives.

(Mr. KUCINICH asked and was given 

Let us cut taxes, not talk about rais


(Mr. LAFALCE asked and was given permission to address the House for 1 

ing them.

permission to address the House for 1 minute and to revise and extend his re


f

minute and to revise and extend his re-marks.) 

marks.) 

Mr. LAFALCE. Mr. Speaker, the 
Community Reinvestment Act was created 
by the Congress in 1977 to combat 
discrimination by encouraging federally 
insured financial institutions to 
help meet the credit needs of the communities 
they serve. I am here today to 
report that the Community Reinvestment 
Act, or CRA, has been a tremendous 
success. 

CRA’s success results from the effective 
partnerships of municipal leaders, 
local development advocacy organizations, 
and community-minded financial 
institutions. Working together, the 
CRA has proven that local investment 
is not only good for business but critical 
to improving the quality of life for 
low- and moderate-income residents in 
the communities financial institutions 
serve. 

We will be hearing about other CRA 
success stories in the next few weeks, 
and I want to applaud the financial 
services industry for their extraordinary 
record of meeting their CRA obligations. 
At present, it is estimated 
that almost 98 percent of all financial 
institutions have achieved a satisfactory 
or better CRA compliance. We 
need to keep and strengthen CRA. 

f 


READINESS AND MORALE A 
PROBLEM WITH U.S. MILITARY 

(Mr. KNOLLENBERG asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. KNOLLENBERG. Mr. Speaker, 
President Clinton has created a national 
security emergency by spreading 
our troops all over the world while neglecting 
the defense budget. 

From 1960 until 1991, American troops 
were deployed 10 times. Since the Cold 
War, our fighting forces have been 
called into action an astonishing 26 
times. Strangely enough, this increased 
activity has occurred during a 
period in which our military has 
shrunk by 40 percent. 

Mr. Speaker, the defense bill the 
House will consider later this week addresses 
the problems of troop readiness 
and troop morale by providing the resources 
to ensure that American troops 
are the best trained and best equipped 
in the world. 

This important bill also provides 
funding to facilitate the deployment of 
a national missile defense system that 
will protect the American people from 
a ballistic missile attack launched by a 
rogue nation. 

Mr. Speaker, this legislation replenishes 
our military, strengthens our national 
security, and enhances our ability 
to carry out foreign policy objectives. 
I urge all my colleagues to support 
it. 

Mr. KUCINICH. Mr. Speaker, about 
40 days ago an 11-member bipartisan 
congressional delegation, led by my 
good friend, the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. WELDON), went to Vienna 
in search of a structure of peace which 
could be put together with leaders of 
the Russian Duma, a peace plan which, 
hopefully, would lead to an end to the 
war in the Balkans. That was 40 days 
ago. 

One of the principles in this plan was 
the following: Article 4. The humanitarian 
crisis will not be solved by 
bombing. A diplomatic solution to the 
problem is preferable to the alternative 
of military escalation. 

Unfortunately, in the ensuing 40 days 
we saw an intense military escalation 
which resulted in the deaths of countless 
innocent civilians. 

One of the articles in this plan that 
was put together called on the interested 
parties to find practical measures 
for a parallel solution to three tasks, 
without regard to sequence: the stopping 
of the bombing, the withdrawal of 
Serbian armed forces from Kosovo, and 
the cessation of the military activities 
of the KLA. 

That is where the G–8 is headed now. 
But they should have stopped the 
bombing, and they should not today be 
threatening Belgrade with further 
bombing if there is not a signature on 
the dotted line today. 

f 


AMERICAN TAXPAYERS ARE NOT 
UNDERTAXED 

(Mr. CHABOT asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, every 
once in a while in politics the truth 
slips out. Sometimes the so-called political 
pros call it a gaffe. Well, we 
have a perfect example of a gaffe by 
the leader of the Democratic Party in 
this body in the House, the gentleman 
from Missouri (Mr. GEPHARDT). 

The gentleman spoke to a group the 
other day and he said, and I quote, 
‘‘You’ve got to have a combination of 
taking it out of the defense budget and 
raising revenue. We can argue about 
how to do that, closing loopholes or 
even raising taxes to do it.’’ 

Well, maybe the other side can argue 
about how they want to raise taxes, 
but Republicans in this House are arguing 
about how to cut taxes, not raise 
them. The American people are overtaxed, 
not undertaxed. 

Let us get together and cut taxes 
across the board on all Americans, and 
let us get rid of this horrible tax, the 
death tax, where the Federal Government 
can take up to 55 percent of what 
Americans earn during the course of 
their lives, even though they have been 

NATIONAL HOMEOWNERSHIP WEEK 
(Ms. SANCHEZ asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Ms. SANCHEZ. Mr. Speaker, today I 
rise to discuss homeownership in 
America. Buying a home is a dream for 
many Americans. People want a place 
where they can raise their children, 
where neighbors come together to form 
a safe community, and ultimately, 
where they can comfortably grow 
older. 
A memory I have from when I was 
young was my grandmother. She came 
to this country. She worked 7 days a 
week, every day that I can remember, 
walking half a mile to get on the bus 
and go to work. She was a restaurant 
worker. She would come back late at 
night after dark. I lost her a few years 
ago. The last few things she said to me 
was she had two dreams she did not accomplish 
in the United States: one, to 
visit the Pope; and two, to own her own 
home. 
This week is National Homeownership 
Week and it is a time that we can 
appreciate the growth our Nation has 
made in homeownership, and it is also 
when we realize how much more we 
have to do to help people own that little 
piece of the American dream, their 
own home. 
I hope that this week we all gather 
together and work very hard to ensure 
that there are ways, like CRA and 
other ways, to help people become 
homeowners in the United States. 

f 


AMERICAN NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY 
SECRETS STOLEN BY CHINA 

(Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute.) 

Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I say to Bill Richardson, tell 
the truth. He has been traveling around 
America and this city saying that 
when he found out, this administration, 
that China stole the secrets to 
our nuclear weapons, the W–88 and the 
W–87, that he took aggressive steps in 
1995 to change that. Tell the truth, Bill 
Richardson. 

U.S. News and World Report, special 
feature, July 31, 1995, Hazel O’Leary 
leaked the plans, which are in this 
magazine, for the W–87 nuclear warhead. 
Tell the truth, Bill Richardson. It 
was this administration that publicly 
released the documented evidence relative 
to our W–87 warhead in U.S. News 
and World Report, July 31, 1995. 

Tell the truth, Bill Richardson. 

f 


AMERICA SHOULD GUARD 
AMERICAN BORDERS 
(Mr. TRAFICANT asked and was 
given permission to address the House 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3771 

for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. TRAFICANT. Mr. Speaker, 90 
percent of all crime in America is drug 
related. Eighty percent of all heroin, 80 
percent of all cocaine comes across the 
Mexican border. To boot, only three 
out of every 100 trucks coming from 
Mexico are even inspected. 

It is so bad, experts now admit it is 
even possible for terrorists to smuggle 
nuclear weapons across our border. And 
after all this, the White House wants to 
send 7,000 American soldiers to guard 
the borders of Yugoslavia. 

Beam me up here. Europe should be 
guarding the borders of Europe and 
Yugoslavia. America should be guarding 
the borders of America for the 
American people. Think about that. 

I yield back this weak and foolish national 
security policy we have in place. 

f 


SOCIAL SECURITY SURPLUS 
(Mr. SMITH of Michigan asked and 
was given permission to address the 
House for 1 minute and to revise and 
extend his remarks.) 
Mr. SMITH of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, 
the challenge before this body this 
week and the next several weeks is 
passing 13 appropriation bills. The 
challenge is based on whether or not 
we are going to stick by the promise 
that we made in the balanced budget 
agreement of 1997. At that time most of 
the Democrats and most Republicans 
voted for that balanced budget agreement. 
That balanced budget agreement included 
setting caps on future spending. 
Keeping that commitment means that 
for the next fiscal year we will not be 
spending any of the Social Security 
surplus. 
Now the question is—can we keep 
that commitment? Can we keep that 
promise? Last week we passed what we 
called a lockbox, again stating that we 
are not going to spend the Social Security 
surplus dollars for other government 
spending programs. Let us keep 
our commitment. Let us keep our 
promise to the American people. Let us 
not jeopardize current and future Social 
Security recipients by caving in to 
the big spenders. 

f 


GUN SAFETY LEGISLATION 
(Ms. DELAURO asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 
Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, 2 weeks 
ago the Republican leadership in this 
House told us that we could not vote on 
gun safety legislation before we left for 
the Memorial Day break because we 
needed to have a hearing in committee, 
needed to go through the proper legislative 
process. 
Ah-ha. Well, now they are bringing 
this legislation to the floor with no 
hearings and with no markup. So what 
was the 2-week delay all about? It was 
about giving the NRA a head start. We 

took the Republican leadership at their 
word that they would play it straight 
with gun safety legislation. But now it 
appears that they spent the last 2 
weeks scheming with the NRA to bring 
down gun safety legislation. 

With their 2-week head start, the 
NRA has launched a 2-week campaign 
of fear. They have spent more than a 
million dollars in the last several days 
to kill gun safety legislation. 

I am here today to ask to plead with 
the Republican leadership in this body 
to stop playing games with gun safety. 
This debate is about protecting our 
children. Thirteen children a day are 
killed by gunfire in the United States 
of America. This is about saving kids’ 
lives. 

This vote on gun safety is deadly serious. 
There is no more room for political 
games. Let us stop the games. Let 
us pass gun safety legislation for our 
families and for our children. 

f 


U.S. MILITARY SHOWING SEVERE 
SIGNS OF STRAIN 
(Mr. TANCREDO asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. TANCREDO. Mr. Speaker, American 
military success in Kosovo has 
shown once again that American forces 
are second to none in the world. Our 
brave pilots and many thousands who 
work around the clock to support them 
deserve our highest praise and our deep 
gratitude. 

However, the military operation in 
Kosovo has also exposed the problem in 
our national defense structure that we 
need that needs immediate attention. 
Our military is undermanned, overextended, 
and showing severe signs of 
strain after having to do more with 
less for too long. 

The defense appropriations bill on 
the House floor later this week is an 
excellent first step to reverse the trend 
and to end the damage to the shortchanging 
of the U.S. military. I urge 
its support. 

f 


COMMEMORATING LIVES OF D.C. 
FIREFIGHTERS 

(Ms. NORTON asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise this 
morning to commemorate the lives of 
two brave young firefighters who gave 
their lives in a fire in the District 
while Congress was out of session. Both 
firefighters were born and raised in the 
Nation’s Capital. 

The loss is not only to their families 
but to the Congress of the United 
States and to this city, where D.C. firefighters 
prepare every day to do what 
is necessary to protect both hometown 
Washington and official Washington, 
including the Members of this House. 

Anthony Phillips of Engine Company 
No. 10 worked the busiest fire house in 

the Nation. Only 30 years old, he was 
the father of two boys, one 21 months 
old, the other 6 years old. Firefighter 
Phillips married his childhood sweetheart, 
Lysa. They were a deeply loving 
couple and family. 

Louis Matthews of Engine Company 
No. 26 was only 29 years old but served 
7 years as a D.C. firefighter. He leaves 
a loving family, including his mother, 
Cassandra Shields, and two young children. 


Members of this body have been 
mindful of the risks firefighters face 
and the sacrifices that their families 
could be called upon to make. I am 
grateful that the 105th Congress passed 
my bill, the Officer Brian Gibson Tax 
Free Pension Equity Act, that allows 
the families of firefighters killed in the 
line of duty to receive survivors’ benefits 
tax free. They did their duty, and I 
am grateful that we did ours. 

f 


SPIRIT OF FREEDOM AWARD 
(Mr. DEMINT asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. DEMINT. Mr. Speaker, last 
Thursday I presented to Mobile Meals 
of Spartanburg, South Carolina, the 
first Spirit of Freedom Award. Every 
day Mobile Meals volunteers deliver as 
well as prepare over 1,700 meals to 
needy people in my district, all without 
government funding. The people at 
Mobile Meals have shown me that freedom 
comes from the able hands of local 
people, people who take responsibility 
for themselves and their communities. 
Here in Washington, we can either 
protect or take away those freedoms. I 
believe it is our role in Congress to be 
the guardians of freedom. That is why 
we are working to return dollars, decisions 
and freedoms to the hands of 
local people. 
I thank Mobile Meals for showing us 
that freedom begins at home. 

f 


RAISING ELIGIBILITY AGE OF 
MEDICARE RECIPIENTS 

(Mr. SANDERS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. Speaker, this Nation 
already has the most unfair distribution 
of wealth and income in the 
entire industrialized world. 

Given that reality, it is absurd that 
some in Congress are talking about 
giving huge tax breaks to some of the 
wealthiest people in this country while 
at the same time they are talking 
about raising the eligibility age of 
Medicare to 67, charging a 10-percent 
copayment fee for home health care, 
and voucherizing Medicare, which 
would mean more out-of-pocket expenses 
for seniors in this country. 

Mr. Speaker, 111 members of Congress 
have written to the President. We 
have urged him, do not raise the eligibility 
age of Medicare to 67, do not 


H3772 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

charge a 10-percent copayment fee on We must pass gun safety legislation, and putting more cops on the beat, 
home health care to some of the weak-we must make our schools safe, and we there is nothing that can be done to at-
est and most vulnerable people in this must do it now. tack the problem if our prosecutors do 

country, and do not force seniors to not have the resources they need to en-

f 


pay more out-of-pocket for their health 
care costs. 

I urge all Members of this body to 
join us. 

f 


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
AUTHORIZATION BILL 

(Mr. HEFLEY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. HEFLEY. Mr. Speaker, military 
readiness is the kind of thing that requires 
long-term planning and longterm 
commitment. Decisions made 
today about our military forces do not 
show up until years down the road. 
That is why it is easy for shortsighted 
or politically motivated leaders to 
shortchange our military for a few 
years because future generations will 
have to pay the price. 

Similarly, the defense buildup that 
President Reagan made his top priority 
paid huge dividends only after he left 
office. The Soviet Union fell shortly 
after he left, and President George 
Bush reaped the benefits of our extraordinary 
military prowess in the 
Gulf War in 1991. 

In my judgment, and in the opinion 
of many military experts, this administration 
has shortchanged our military 
systematically over the past 6 years. 
Our commitments grow, but the resources 
are just not there to meet 
them. 

This House will soon have the opportunity 
to take action to change this 
course. I urge my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to support the DOD 
authorization bill. 

f 


SCHOOL SAFETY AND GUN 
VIOLENCE 

(Ms. WOOLSEY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Speaker, how 
much longer do families have to live in 
fear before Congress acts? How many 
more memorials must our Nation have 
before Congress passes sensible gun 
control? Those are the questions. 

It appears that the answer is that 
some politicians would rather have the 
National Rifle Association invest in 
them than for our Congress to invest in 
our children’s future, investing with a 
sensible gun control measure. 

Millions of families across the Nation 
agree that we need to tighten gun control 
laws. So it is time for the House to 
act. The Senate has done the right 
thing. Now the House must do the 
same. If that means coming to the 
floor every day demanding that the Republican 
leadership bring debate on 
child safety locks, on background 
checks at gun shows, and a prohibition 
on the import of large magazines, so be 
it, we are going to do it. 

CHINA HAS AMERICAN NUCLEAR 
WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY 

(Mr. EHLERS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. EHLERS. Mr. Speaker, I suspect 
I am one of the few individuals in this 
House who has worked at a nuclear 
weapons laboratory. I did this for one 
summer while I was a graduate student 
at Berkeley at the University of California. 
And I found it to be a very good 
experience to work at a nuclear weapons 
laboratory, even though my work 
was primarily on unclassified science. 

What impressed me is that the individuals 
that worked at that laboratory 
were extremely security conscious and 
they were very concerned about any 
leaks of information about nuclear 
weapons. We seem to have lost that. 
We have lost that culture ever since 
the Berlin Wall fell. 

But what is dismaying to me is the 
reaction of the White House to the discovery 
that the Chinese have managed 
to obtain information about our nuclear 
weapons. The spin doctors have 
gone to work full-time. The President’s 
men seem to be more concerned with 
blaming the Bush and Reagan administration 
than with taking responsibility 
and trying to correct the problem as 
they should be doing. 

b1030 

It is the mark of strong individuals 
to take responsibility for the mistakes 
that they have made and to correct 
them, and I expect no less of the President 
and his aides. We do have leaks, 
we have to cure them, and it is absolutely 
essential that those individuals 
who are responsible take responsibility, 
correct the problem, and solve 
it. 

f 


SUPPORT GUN CRIME 
PROSECUTION ACT 

(Mr. UDALL of New Mexico asked 
and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. Mr. 
Speaker, today along with the gentlewoman 
from New York (Mrs. MCCARTHY) 
and the gentleman from Kansas 
(Mr. MOORE) and other cosponsors, I introduce 
a bill that will put at least one 
Federal prosecutor in every State. 

There is no question that our Nation 
is facing a growing scourge of gun violence 
that is holding an increasing 
number of our communities under 
siege. Crimes committed with firearms 
are among the most heinous and should 
be prosecuted as quickly and forcefully 
as possible. 

While the Federal government has in 
the past approached the problem of gun 
violence by passing new Federal laws 

force existing laws. Simply put, we 
must give them the resources they 
need to fully enforce existing gun laws. 
That is why we have introduced the 
Gun Crime Prosecution Act of 1999. 

This legislation will give every 
United States Attorney for each judicial 
district an additional Assistant 

U.S. Attorney position whose sole purpose 
would be the prosecution of 
crimes committed with a firearm. Specifically, 
each new prosecutor position 
would give priority to violent crimes 
and crimes committed by felons by 
committing a full-time position within 
the United States Attorney’s office to 
prosecuting gun crimes. We will be giving 
our prosecutors the tools they need 
to enforce the laws that already exist 
in the statute. 
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to 
support this bill. 

f 


A BETTER WAY 
(Mr. HAYWORTH asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 
Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Speaker, I listened 
with great interest to my neighbor 
from New Mexico offer a point 
which I think cannot be stated enough. 
You see, it is not enough to pass laws 
in Congress. The fact is, prosecutors 
and those who would uphold the law 
need to enforce existing laws and need 
to obey existing laws. 
Mr. Speaker, that is one of the things 
I heard time and again visiting with 
my constituents in the Sixth Congressional 
District of Arizona. I know that 
different Members of this body spent 
their district work periods in different 
ways. For example, the minority leader 
of this body, the gentleman from Missouri 
(Mr. GEPHARDT), spent time in 
Philadelphia bragging about how my 
friends on the left might take control 
of this institution in the year 2000. 
Here is what the minority leader 
said: 
‘‘You’ve got to have a combination of 
taking it out of the defense budget and 
raising revenue. We can argue about 
how to do that. We can close loopholes 
or even raise taxes to do it.’’ 
There is the candor attack, the honesty 
episode from the minority leader. 
Cut defense and raise taxes. That is 
their prescription for the future? Mr. 
Speaker, there is a better way. 

f 


PLAUDITS TO COX COMMITTEE 

(Mr. COOKSEY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. COOKSEY. Mr. Speaker, I think 
every single Member of this body owes 
a debt of gratitude to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. COX) my Republican 
colleague. The gentleman from 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3773 

California headed the Select Committee 
on China and has been an outstanding 
example of even temperament, 
fair-mindedness and bipartisanship 
in his handling of the House investigation 
of Chinese espionage at our 
nuclear laboratories. 

Although there is considerable evidence 
that the administration has been 
selectively leaking the most sensational 
stories to the New York Times, 
the Cox Committee has been a tomb. 
No one has accused Chairman COX or 
anyone on his staff of leaking information 
about his long-awaited report, an 
extraordinary achievement in Washington. 


Thus far, public statements by the 
gentleman from California have been 
judicious and moderate and he has bent 
over backwards not to be partisan, 
even though most of the espionage occurred 
during the periods 1994 and 1995. 
Instead, he has focused on what can be 
done about the problems at our Energy 
Department laboratories. 

CHRIS COX, well done. The American 
people have benefitted greatly from 
your outstanding work on this extremely 
important issue. 

f 


COMMENTS ON COX COMMITTEE 

(Mr. STEARNS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. STEARNS. Mr. Speaker, recently 
Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson 
stated, ‘‘I can assure the American people 
that their nuclear secrets are now 
safe at the labs.’’ Somehow I do not 
think the American people believe him. 

In fact, the unanimous conclusion of 
the Cox Committee is also at odds with 
the Secretary’s reassurance. The committee 
concludes that ‘‘such thefts almost 
certainly continue to the present 
day.’’ 

I am quite distressed at the reaction 
of the administration’s spokesmen who 
even to this very day are downplaying 
the significance of the Cox report finding. 
And, of course, they are changing 
the subject. 

The big news is not that our nuclear 
secrets were stolen. The incomprehensible 
news is what this administration 
has done about it when it was discovered 
in 1995 that the crown jewel of our 
nuclear arsenal, the W–88, was stolen 
by the Communist Chinese. 

No one told the President. 

The Justice Department denied the 
FBI’s request for a wiretap on the clear 
and obvious suspect. 

The issue, my colleagues, is what was 
done in 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999. 

f 


THE JOURNAL 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
SHAW). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, 
the pending business is the question de 
novo of the Speaker’s approval of the 
Journal. 
The question is on the Speaker’s approval 
of the Journal of the last day’s 
proceedings. 

Miller, Gary Reyes Stabenow 
Miller, George Reynolds Stark

The question was taken; and the 

Speaker pro tempore announced that 

Minge Rivers Stearns 
the ayes appeared to have it. Mink Rodriguez Stenholm 

Mr. GIBBONS. Mr. Speaker, I object 

Moakley Roemer Strickland 
Mollohan Rogan Stump

to the vote on the ground that a 

Moore Rogers Sununu 
quorum is not present and make the Moran (VA) Ros-Lehtinen Talent 

point of order that a quorum is not Morella Rothman Tauscher 
Murtha Roukema Tauzin

present. 

Myrick Roybal-Allard Taylor (NC)
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Evi-Nadler Royce Terry 

dently a quorum is not present. Napolitano Ryan (WI) Thomas 
Neal Ryun (KS) Thornberry

The Sergeant at Arms will notify ab-

Nethercutt Salmon Thune 
sent Members. Ney Sanchez Thurman 
The vote was taken by electronic de-

Northup Sandlin Tierney 
Norwood Sanford Toomey

vice, and there were—yeas 355, nays 46, 

Nussle Sawyer Towns 
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 31, as Olver Saxton Traficant 
follows: Ortiz Scott Turner 
Ose Sensenbrenner Udall (CO)

[Roll No. 170] 

Owens Serrano Upton 
YEAS—355 

Oxley Sessions Velazquez 
Packard Shadegg Walden 

Abercrombie Davis (IL) Hostettler 

Pascrell Shaw Walsh 

Ackerman Davis (VA) Houghton 

Paul Shays WampAllen Deal Hoyer 

Payne Sherman Watkins 

Andrews DeGette Hulshof 

Pease Sherwood Watt (NC)

Archer Delahunt Hunter 

Pelosi Shimkus Watts (OK)
Armey DeLauro Hyde 

Peterson (PA) Shows Waxman 

Bachus DeLay Inslee 

Petri Shuster Weiner 

Baird DeMint Isakson 

Phelps Simpson Weldon (FL)
Baker Deutsch Istook 

Pickering Sisisky Weldon (PA)

Baldacci Dickey Jackson (IL) 

Pitts Skeen Wexler 

Baldwin Dicks Jackson-Lee 

Pomeroy Skelton WeygandBallenger Dixon (TX) 

Porter Slaughter Whitfield 

Barcia Doggett Jefferson 

Portman Smith (NJ) Wicker 

Barr Dooley Jenkins 

Price (NC) Smith (TX) Wilson 

Barrett (NE) Doolittle Johnson (CT) 

Pryce (OH) Smith (WA) Wolf 

Barrett (WI) Doyle Johnson, E. B. 

Quinn Snyder Woolsey

Bartlett Dreier Johnson, Sam 

Radanovich Souder Wu 
Barton Duncan Jones (NC) 

Rahall Spence Wynn

Bass Dunn Jones (OH) 

Regula Spratt Young (FL)

Bateman Edwards Kanjorski 
Becerra Ehlers Kaptur NAYS—46 
Bentsen Ehrlich Kasich 

Aderholt Gutknecht Ramstad

Bereuter Emerson Kelly 

Bilbray Hastings (FL) Riley

Berkley Engel Kennedy 

Borski Hefley Sabo

Berman Eshoo Kildee 

Brown (FL) Hilliard Stupak

Berry Evans Kind (WI) 

Brown (OH) Hutchinson Sweeney

Biggert Everett King (NY) 

Clay Kucinich Tancredo

Bilirakis Ewing Klink 

Costello LaFalce Tanner

Bishop Farr Knollenberg 

Crane Lewis (GA) Taylor (MS)

Blagojevich Fattah Kolbe 

DeFazio LoBiondo Thompson (CA)

Bliley Fletcher Kuykendall 

English Martinez Thompson (MS)

Blumenauer Foley LaHood 

Etheridge Moran (KS) Udall (NM)

Blunt Forbes Lampson 

Filner Oberstar Vento

Boehlert Ford Lantos 

Gephardt Pallone Visclosky

Boehner Fossella Largent 

Gibbons Pastor Weller

Bonilla Fowler Larson 

Green (TX) Peterson (MN)

Bonior Frank (MA) Latham 

Gutierrez Pombo

Bono Franks (NJ) LaTourette 
Boswell Frelinghuysen Lazio ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1 
Boyd Gallegly Leach 

Scarborough

Brady (PA) Ganske Levin 
Brady (TX) Gejdenson Lewis (CA) 

NOT VOTING—31 

Bryant Gekas Lewis (KY) 

Boucher Kilpatrick Rush

Burr Gilchrest Lofgren 

Brown (CA) Kingston Sanders

Burton Gillmor Lowey 
Buyer Gilman Lucas (KY) 

Cannon Kleczka Schaffer 
Chenoweth Lee Schakowsky

Callahan Gonzalez Lucas (OK) 

Coburn Linder Smith (MI)

Calvert Goode Luther 
Camp Goodlatte Maloney (CT) 

Coyne Lipinski Tiahrt 
Danner McCollum Waters

Campbell Goodling Maloney (NY) 

Diaz-Balart Obey Wise

Canady Gordon Manzullo 
Capps Goss Markey 

Dingell Pickett Young (AK) 
Frost Rangel

Capuano Graham Mascara 

John Rohrabacher

Cardin Granger Matsui 
Carson Green (WI) McCarthy (MO) 

b1056

Castle Greenwood McCarthy (NY) 

Chabot Hall (OH) McCrery So the journal was approved.
Chambliss Hall (TX) McDermott 

The result of the vote was announced

Clayton Hansen McGovern 
Clement Hastings (WA) McHugh 

as above recorded. 
Clyburn Hayes McInnis Stated for: 
Coble Hayworth McIntosh 

Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall No. 170,

Collins Herger McIntyre 

I was unavoidably absent from the Journal

Combest Hill (IN) McKeon 

Condit Hill (MT) McKinney vote. Had I been present, I would have voted 
Conyers Hilleary McNulty ‘‘yes.’’
Cook Hinchey Meehan 

f

Cooksey Hinojosa Meek (FL) 
Cox Hobson Meeks (NY) 

COMMUNICATION FROM THE

Cramer Hoeffel Menendez 
Crowley Hoekstra Metcalf 

CLERK OF THE HOUSE 
Cubin Holden Mica 

The SPEAKER laid before the House

Cummings Holt Millender-
Cunningham Hooley McDonald 

the following communication from the 
Davis (FL) Horn Miller (FL) Clerk of the House of Representatives: 


H3774 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, the Louisiana delegation and the new-ture of a substitute shall be considered as 
Washington, DC, June 8, 1999. read. During consideration of the bill for

est Member of our House of Represent-

Hon. J. DENNIS HASTERT, amendment, the chairman of the Committee

atives here in Washington, D.C., Mr.

The Speaker, House of Representatives, of the Whole may accord priority in recogni-

DAVID VITTER.

Washington, DC. tion on the basis of whether the Member of-
DEAR MR. SPEAKER: I have the honor to fering an amendment has caused it to be

f 


transmit herewith a facsimile copy of a Certificate 
of Election received from the Honorable 
M.J. ‘‘Mike’’ Foster, Jr., Governor, 
State of Louisiana, indicating that, at the 
Special Election held on May 29, 1999, the 
Honorable David Vitter was duly elected 
Representative in Congress for the First 
Congressional District, State of Louisiana. 

With best wishes, I am 

Sincerely, 

JEFF TRANDAHL, 

Clerk. 

f 


b1100 

SWEARING IN OF THE HONORABLE 

DAVID VITTER, OF LOUISIANA, 

AS A MEMBER OF THE HOUSE 

The SPEAKER. Will the Representative-
elect and the members of the Louisiana 
delegation present themselves in 
the well. 

Mr. VITTER appeared at the bar of 
the House and took the oath of office, 
as follows: 

Do you solemnly swear that you will 
support and defend the Constitution of 
the United States against all enemies, 
foreign and domestic; that you will 
bear true faith and allegiance to the 
same; that you take this obligation 
freely, without any mental reservation 
or purpose of evasion; and that you will 
well and faithfully discharge the duties 
of the office on which you are about to 
enter. So help you God. 

The SPEAKER. Congratulations. You 
are now a Member of the United States 
Congress. 

f 


WELCOME TO THE HONORABLE 
DAVID VITTER 

(Mr. TAUZIN asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. TAUZIN. Mr. Speaker, it is with 
extreme pleasure that the Louisiana 
delegation presents to you the newest 
member of our delegation, the newest 
Member of the American House of Representatives, 
Mr. DAVID VITTER. 

DAVID is extremely well qualified to 
join this body. Unlike the Member in 
the well, who graduated from Harvard 
on the Bayou in Louisiana, DAVID actually 
got his education at Harvard University. 
He is a Rhodes Scholar. He and 
his lovely wife, Wendy, are the parents 
of three beautiful children, including a 
young set of twins. Their three daughters 
are here today to celebrate this 
day with them. Like CHRIS JOHN in our 
delegation, they are the parents of 
twins, and we are real excited to have 
him and his family join our delegation. 

Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bob Livingston 
is here, a former member, as 
you know, and Mr. Jimmy Hayes is 
here from Louisiana, also to welcome 
DAVID. 

Would you please join me in welcoming 
again the newest member of 

SERVING LOUISIANA WITH HONOR, 
HUMILITY, AND AWE 

(Mr. VITTER asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. VITTER. Mr. Speaker, ladies and 
gentlemen of the House, distinguished 
Congressman TAUZIN and other members 
of the Louisiana delegation, I am 
honored, humbled, awestruck to stand 
before you today. 

My goal in the years ahead is simply 
this: to become at ease and comfortable 
with you as I become a respected 
colleague and friend; to become 
at ease and comfortable with the ways 
of the House as I become an effective 
Congressman; but never to become so 
at ease and comfortable that I lose 
these feelings of honor, of humility, of 
awe. And how could I? This is the people’s 
House. You, we, are the people’s 
representatives, a vital part of the 
most powerful and moral political experiment 
in human history. 

I look forward to always honoring 
you as the people’s representatives and 
to working constructively with you on 
the people’s business. 

In closing, I would like to recognize 
the forces that have brought me here 
today: God; family, led by my parents 
and wife; friends; and, of course, the 
wonderful people of Louisiana’s First 
Congressional District. They are here 
today, they are here always, and I 
thank them from the depths of my 
heart. 

f 


EDUCATION LAND GRANT ACT 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, by direction 
of the Committee on Rules, I 
call up House Resolution 189 and ask 
for its immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows: 
H. RES. 189 
Resolved, That at any time after the adoption 
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant 
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the 
House resolved into the Committee of the 
Whole House on the state of the Union for 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 150) to amend 
the Act popularly known as the Recreation 
and Public Purposes Act to authorize disposal 
of certain public lands or national forest 
lands to local education agencies for use 
for elementary or secondary schools, including 
public charter schools, and for other purposes. 
The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. General debate shall be confined 
to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chairman and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Resources. After general 
debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. It 
shall be in order to consider as an original 
bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on Resources now printed in the 
bill. The committee amendment in the na


printed in the portion of the Congressional 
Record designated for that purpose in clause 
8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall 
be considered as read. The chairman of the 
Committee of the Whole may: (1) postpone 
until a time during further consideration in 
the Committee of the Whole a request for a 
recorded vote on any amendment; and (2) reduce 
to five minutes the minimum time for 
electronic voting on any postponed question 
that follows another electronic vote without 
intervening business, provided that the minimum 
time for electronic voting on the first 
in any series of question shall be 15 minutes. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill 
for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill to the House with such 
amendments as may have been adopted. Any 
Member may demand a separate vote in the 
House on any amendment adopted in the 
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the 
committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except one motion to recommit 
with or without instructions. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
SHAW). The gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
SESSIONS) is recognized for 1 hour. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, for purposes 
of debate only, I yield the customary 
30 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from New York (Ms. SLAUGHTER), pending 
which I yield myself such time as I 
may consume. During consideration of 
this resolution, all time yielded is for 
the purpose of debate only. 

Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 189 is an open 
rule providing 1 hour of general debate, 
divided equally between the chairman 
and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Resources. The rule 
makes in order the Committee on Resources’ 
amendment in the nature of a 
substitute as an original bill for the 
purpose of amendment, which shall be 
considered as read. 

Members who have preprinted their 
amendments in the record prior to 
their consideration may be given priority 
in recognition to offering their 
amendments if otherwise consistent 
with House rules. 

The Chairman of the Committee of 
the Whole may postpone votes during 
consideration of the bill and reduce 
voting time to 5 minutes on a postponed 
question if the vote follows a 15minute 
vote. 

Finally, the rule provides for one motion 
to recommit, with or without instructions. 


Mr. Speaker, H.R. 150, the Education 
Land Grant Act, is the product of tireless 
efforts of my colleague, the gentleman 
from Arizona (Mr. HAYWORTH). 
The gentleman is looking for innovative 
ways to provide educational resources 
for State and local governments. 


Like many western States, Arizona 
has scarce non-Federal resources within 
the National Forest land system, 
making it very expensive and cost-prohibitive 
for school districts to buy land 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3775 

needed to expand or build the nec-Mr. Speaker, I was just like thou-Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I reessary 
school facilities. sands of other parents and grand-serve the balance of my time. 

The gentleman from Arizona (Mr. parents who attended the graduation Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
HAYWORTH) recognized this clearly ceremonies over the past few weeks. such time as he may consume to the 

when he had to fight to convey 30 acres 
of Forest Service land to the Alpine 
School District for the purpose of 
building new school facilities during 
the 104th Congress. The Education 
Land Grant Act would codify this process 
for all Forest Service land. This 
legislation authorizes the Secretary of 
Agriculture to convey Forest Service 
lands for educational purposes, as long 
as the school is publicly funded, the 
conveyance serves the public interest, 
and the land is not environmentally 
sensitive or needed for the purpose of 
the National Forest System. 

b1115 
This process mirrors the Recreation 
and Public Purposes Act, which allows 
Congress to sell or lease Bureau of 
Land Management land to State and 
local governments, and qualified nonprofit 
organizations for public purposes. 
I am proud of the work my colleague, 
the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
HAYWORTH) has done. 
Mr. Speaker, I urge support for the 
rule and the underlying legislation, 
and I reserve the balance of my time. 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 
(Ms. SLAUGHTER asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 
Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, 
today we return to the Education Land 
Grant Act, which was scheduled for 
consideration a few weeks ago but 
postponed until today. The bill was reported 
on a voice vote from the Committee 
on Resources. It is a relatively 
straightforward bill and enjoys bipartisan 
support. 
Although I know there are Members 
who have objections which will be 
raised in the ensuing debate, it will be 
ably handled on our side by my good 
friend, the gentleman from California 
(Mr. GEORGE MILLER). 
Mr. Speaker, this is a request for an 
open rule on a bill which could easily 
be handled on the suspension calendar, 
and an open rule which was granted 
only after the Democrat efforts to 
bring forward the juvenile justice bill 
were defeated on a party line vote. 
Mr. Speaker, this weekend I had the 
privilege to attend my granddaughter’s 
high school graduation and to hear her 
give a commencement address welcoming 
her classmates to the last day 
of their childhood and the first day of 
the rest of their lives. 
She stated: 

We have come to an intersection with no 
signs, our past beeping loudly at us and a 
foggy road ahead. Some of us are struggling 
wildly to go into reverse, which in life is utterly 
impossible. We are hesitantly facing 
our future, an unnerving task for we know 
not what the future holds. But take comfort, 
the beauty of the future lies not in its planning, 
but in its spontaneous creation. 

There we were, watching our kids, our 
grandkids, the kid next door who only 
last week it seems was learning to ride 
without training wheels, and is now 
about to claim his or her future. 

Sadly, so many, far, far too many 
children in recent years have gone 
through that rite of passage forever 
tinged by violence inside their school 
walls. In some instances, the classes 
following these children will have 
learned not only the fire drill but the 
evacuation drill, in case a classmate 
has a gun. 

A columnist in my hometown paper, 
the Democrat and Chronicle in Rochester, 
New York, observed that we have 
had so many school shootings that we 
can now rank them in order of the carnage 
which was created. It is so sad I 
can hardly speak to it, but in homes 
across this country, families are being 
forced to have exactly that discussion. 

Mr. Speaker, if Members do not believe 
the threat is real, ask the mere 
child who came to me recently wondering 
how to find a bulletproof vest. 

Mr. Speaker, let us not get complacent 
on the issues of gun violence and 
juvenile justice. Let us not let another 
graduation day pass without action by 
this House to reduce violence and to 
help our troubled children. 

Mr. Speaker, that is still a debate 
which this House needs, which I encourage 
the leadership to allow, and 
which America wants. Instead of or at 
least in addition to the debate on the 
Education Land Grant Act, let us have 
a constructive and bipartisan debate on 
our response to the growing crisis of 
school violence. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, continuing 
debate on H.R. 150, I yield such 
time as he may consume to the gentleman 
from Utah (Mr. HANSEN), the 
chairman of the Subcommittee on Public 
Lands and National Parks. 

Mr. HANSEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
my friend, the gentleman from Texas, 
for yielding time to me. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the 
rule for H.R. 150. H.R. 150 is an important 
piece of legislation that will help 
schoolchildren in rural communities 
throughout this country. 

The Education Land Grant Act will 
allow publicly-funded education entities 
to acquire Forest Service land at 
nominal cost for school facilities. This 
will help many of the cash-strapped 
communities that are hemmed in by 
government land to provide an education 
for their children. 

Mr. Speaker, this is an important bill 
that will help the Nation’s children. I 
would like to thank the minority for 
working with us to fine-tune this legislation, 
and I look forward to the discussion 
on H.R. 150 on the floor. I support 
the rule, and hope that my colleagues 
will do likewise. 

gentleman from Nevada (Mr. GIBBONS). 

Mr. GIBBONS. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in support of the rule and the underlying 
legislation, H.R. 150. I want to 
thank the gentleman from Texas for 
yielding time to me to speak on this 
bill, and I want to congratulate the 
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
HAYWORTH) for his vision and forthrightness 
and commitment in bringing 
this bill before the floor. 

Mr. Speaker, I represent the Second 
Congressional District of Nevada. It 
has numerous communities that are 
land-locked by the Federal government, 
Federal land, including Forest 
Service lands. We have several rural 
communities that have very little private 
land from which to expand or 
build new schools. 

For example, let me take one of the 
counties which I represent. It has an 
area of approximately 10,000 square 
miles. That is bigger than the State of 
Maine. It has 98 percent of that land 
being owned, operated, and managed by 
the Federal government. That leaves 2 
percent of 10,000 square miles to pay for 
education, for the infrastructure, highways, 
for police and fire services, and 
all of the other county and local community 
needs. They are not able to 
reach out and improve their economic 
and financial base without H.R. 150. 

Let me say that that 2 percent is not 
enough to support many of these counties. 
What we are asking for here is 80 
acres at a maximum, that is 80 acres 
for this one county out of 10,000 square 
miles; 80 acres, not a lot. Without this 
legislation, there is no chance for these 
people to build new schools, to expand 
their community for their children, 
and to improve the future for their 
children. 

H.R. 150 is a commonsense proposal 
to enhance the education of our children, 
not just in Nevada, not just in 
Arizona, but across America, as well. 
I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 
150, the rule and the underlying bill. 
Again, I want to congratulate the gentleman 
from Arizona (Mr. HAYWORTH). 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
HAYWORTH). 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank my colleague, the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. SESSIONS), a member 
of the Committee on Rules, for yielding 
time to me. 

I also thank my colleague, the gentlewoman 
from New York (Ms. Slaughter) 
for her remarks, such as they pertain 
to this particular piece of legislation. 


Mr. Speaker, today we have the opportunity 
to come together as Americans, 
not as Democrats or as Republicans 
but as Americans, to pass an important 
piece of legislation that will 
make it easier for economically-challenged 
communities to provide educational 
facilities for our children. 


H3776 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

The title of this bill says it all: The a nominal cost using guidelines estab-1130

b 


Education Land Grant Act. This act 
would allow school districts around the 
country to apply for conveyances of 
small tracts of Forest Service land at 
nominal cost to build, renovate, or expand 
their educational facilities. 

Currently only school districts near 
Bureau of Land Management land can 
apply for conveyances under the Recreation 
and Public Purposes Act, or 
R&PPA. Modeled after the R&PPA, my 
legislation simply adds Forest Service 
lands to this equation. 

Mr. Speaker, the idea for this legislation 
grew out of work I was honored to 
do in the 104th Congress during my 
first term here representing the Sixth 
Congressional District of Arizona. At 
that time the Alpine School District in 
eastern Arizona was in desperate need 
of new school facilities. This district 
lies within Apache County in the eastern 
part of the State, near our border 
with New Mexico. 

Eighty-five percent of Apache County, 
Arizona, is federally-controlled 
land. That limited what could be raised 
in property taxes, so the school district 
was dependent on proceeds from timber 
harvesting. However, due to lawsuits, 
logging had been halted. Consequently, 
the timber receipts that had gone toward 
funding the schools all but dried 
up. 

The Alpine School District faced a 
dilemma. It could not afford both the 
cost of land, estimated to be $225,000, 
and the cost of new school facilities. So 
I introduced legislation which was 
signed into law that conveyed 30 acres 
of Forest Service land to the Alpine 
School District so that the people 
there could use that land for the construction 
of new school facilities. 

Construction of those facilities proceeds, 
and I am pleased to report that 
when the children of Alpine return to 
school this fall, the facilities will be 
completed. 

The legislation we consider today 
sets up a national mechanism for 
school districts to apply to the Secretary 
of Agriculture for Forest Service 
land without having to come to 
Congress to draw up a specific bill for 
a special remedy, as the people of Alpine 
did. 

However, the Education Land Grant 
Act authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture 
to convey Forest Service land 
only if certain specific conditions are 
met: 

First, the entity seeking the conveyance 
must use the land for a public or 
publicly-funded elementary or secondary 
school. 

Second, the conveyance must serve 
the public interest. 

Third, the land cannot, cannot be environmentally 
sensitive or needed for 
purposes of the National Forest system. 


Finally, the total acreage to be conveyed 
will be limited to the amount 
reasonably necessary for the proposed 
use, but not to exceed 80 acres. 

It also provides that conveyances 
under this legislation shall be made for 

lished under the R&PPA for approximately 
$10 an acre. The bill would provide 
expedited review of applications 
by requiring the Secretary of Agriculture 
to acknowledge the receipt of 
an application within 14 days. 

A final determination about whether 
to convey the land must be made within 
120 days unless the Secretary of Agriculture 
submits a written notice to 
the applicant explaining the delay. 

Passage of this bill will be a boon for 
rural areas throughout our Nation, but 
especially in the West and in the 
South, where there is a large amount 
of federally-controlled land. 

For example, Gila County, Arizona, a 
county in my district which is approximately 
the size of the State of Connecticut, 
only finds 3 percent of its 
land mass privately owned. In other 
words, 97 percent of Gila County, Arizona, 
is under the control, the ownership, 
if you will, of some governmental 
entity. 

That is why in the West private land, 
when we can find it, like in Gila County, 
only 3 percent, is extremely expensive. 
Not only that, but the West also 
confronts the problem and the challenge 
of rapidly growing populations. 
In fact, Arizona, Utah, and Nevada are 
the three fastest growing States in the 
Nation. This means there will be more 
demand to build school facilities but 
less land to do it on. 

The Education Land Grant Act is one 
of the ways we can alleviate some of 
the West’s growing pains and at the 
same time help our children receive 
the education they need and deserve. 

Mr. Speaker, my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle have continually 
talked about the importance of education 
and the future of our children. 

H.R. 150 is a commonsense proposal on 
which we can all agree because it will 
allow economically-strapped school 
districts throughout the United States 
to put the money where it counts, in 
the classroom, helping teachers teach, 
helping children learn. This is a goal I 
believe we all support, Mr. Speaker. 
I hope this House will strongly support 
the rule and this bipartisan, commonsense 
legislation. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Mr. Speaker, I 
have no further requests for time, and 
I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I have 
no further requests for time, I yield 
back the balance of my time, and I 
move the previous question on the resolution. 


The previous question was ordered. 

The resolution was agreed to. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 

the table. 

b1130 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. SESSIONS). 
Pursuant to House Resolution 
189 and rule XVIII, the Chair declares 
the House in the Committee of the 
Whole House on the State of the Union 
for the consideration of the bill, H.R. 
150. 

IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE 

Accordingly, the House resolved 
itself into the Committee of the Whole 
House on the State of the Union for the 
consideration of the bill (H.R. 150) to 
amend the Act popularly known as the 
Recreation and Public Purposes Act to 
authorize disposal of certain public 
lands or national forest lands to local 
education agencies for use for elementary 
or secondary schools, including 
public charter schools, and for other 
purposes, with Mr. SHAW in the chair. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to the 
rule, the bill is considered as having 
been read the first time. 

Under the rule, the gentleman from 
Utah (Mr. HANSEN) and the gentleman 
from California (Mr. GEORGE MILLER) 
each will control 30 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Utah (Mr. HANSEN). 

Mr. HANSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support 
of H.R. 150, the Education Land 
Grant Act. H.R. 150 is a good piece of 
legislation that will help school children 
in rural communities throughout 
the country. I commend the gentleman 
from Arizona (Mr. HAYWORTH) for his 
hard work on this bill. 

The Education Land Grant Act was 
designated to alleviate the problem 
that may help small Western communities. 
These towns are often hemmed 
in by government-owned lands such as 
BLM land, Indian reservations, national 
forests, State land, national 
monuments, national parks, et cetera. 

Since so much of this land base in 
these areas is nontaxable government 
land, they often find it difficult to afford 
school facilities. The little private 
land that does exist in these areas 
tends to be very expensive. This often 
makes land acquisition for school facilities 
cost-prohibitive. 

Those communities that are fortunate 
enough to have a suitable parcel 
of BLM land near their town can get 
land at a nominal cost for school facilities 
through the Recreation and Public 
Purposes Act. Unfortunately, those 
communities that are next to a suitable 
parcel of forest land do not have 
this option because the Recreation and 
Public Purposes Act does not apply to 
Forest Service lands. 

H.R. 150 was designed to help these 
towns and cities surrounded by or adjacent 
to Forest Service land. They 
would be able to buy parcels of land for 
school facilities from the Forest Service 
at nominal cost. This will allow 
many of these cash-strapped communities 
to build more adequate education 
facilities for their children. 
I would like to thank the minority 
for working closely with us on this legislation. 
The legislation we have before 
us today is much improved and something 
I believe we should all support. 

I understand that the administration 
has some concerns with this legislation. 
In particular, they object to the 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3777 

concept of selling Forest Service lands 
at less than full market value. While I 
understand their concerns, I think it is 
important to note who it is that we are 
trying to help. We are talking about 
schoolchildren. We are talking about 
giving school districts a little land to 
build an elementary school or a playground 
for the children. 

This is a good cause and a very good 
idea. H.R. 150 is simple legislation that 
resolves a difficult problem for rural 
school districts. I urge all of my colleagues 
to support H.R. 150. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume. 

(Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California 
asked and was given permission to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. 
Mr. Chairman, as introduced, H.R. 150 
had significant problems. The bill 
would have amended the Recreation 
and Public Purposes Act to provide for 
the transfer of national forest lands to 
local education entities for use as elementary 
and secondary schools, including 
public charter schools. 

At the Committee on Resources hearing 
on H.R. 150, the administration testified 
in opposition to the bill. While 
they supported the objective of making 
Federal lands available in certain circumstances 
for public purposes, they 
testified that the legislation was burdensome. 


One of the problems with the bill was 
that the Recreation and Public Purposes 
Act was designed to apply to public 
lands only. H.R. 150 tried to shoehorn 
national forest lands into that 
law and it was not a very good fit. The 
problem was not only with using the 
Recreation and Public Purposes Act, 
but also the fact that the bill sponsor 
was seeking waivers or changes to the 
normal requirements of land conveyances. 


We should not be setting different requirements 
for school lands than applied 
to public lands used for hospitals 
or other public purposes. Further, we 
had no definition of a public charter 
school and, as such, we did not know 
what such use would entail. 

During the Committee on Resources’ 
consideration of H.R. 150, an amendment 
in the nature of a substitute was 
adopted and made substantial improvements 
to this legislation. As reported 
by the Committee on Resources, the 
bill is now a freestanding measure that 
provides discretionary authority to the 
Secretary of Agriculture to make 
available certain national forest system 
lands at nominal cost to qualifying 
entities for use as elementary 
and secondary schools and related facilities. 


The bill requires that in order to 
make such a conveyance, the Secretary 
must determine that, one, the land will 
be used for the intended purposes, two, 
that the conveyance will serve the public 
interest, three, that the land to be 

conveyed is not otherwise needed for 
the national forest system, and four, 
the total acreage to be conveyed does 
not exceed the amount reasonably necessary 
for the proposed use. 

In any event, the conveyance is limited 
to 80 acres, and the mineral rights 
are reserved to the United States. In 
addition, the committee amendment 
includes the reverter clause that would 
be applicable if the lands were to be 
used, without consent of the Secretary, 
for use other than the use for which the 
lands were not conveyed. 

Mr. Chairman, H.R. 150, as amended 
by the Committee on Resources, is a 
significant improvement from the bill 
as it was introduced. Although the administration 
objects to the bill because 
the lands are authorized to be conveyed 
for less than full cost, I do not think 
that what the bill provides in this case 
is unreasonable, given the discretionary 
nature of the bill and the public 
interests being served. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. HANSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
such time as he may consume to the 
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
HAYWORTH), the author of this legislation, 
and compliment the gentleman 
for doing such an excellent job on this 
very necessary bill. 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman from Utah (Mr. 
HANSEN) for yielding to me. I also 
thank the gentleman from California 
(Mr. GEORGE MILLER) because, as I 
have learned since coming to this institution, 
good legislation is often a collaborative 
process. 

I would simply say in response to a 
couple of points raised by the administration 
and the Forest Service, it is 
precisely because so many rural communities 
find themselves enclosed by 
federally controlled land are so economically 
strapped, so economically 
challenged, so economically disadvantaged 
that we brought this legislation 
forward. 

Fair market value in this case cannot 
apply, nor should it apply; and this 
bill rectifies that at a nominal cost to 
allow these communities to concentrate 
their resources where they are 
best utilized, in the education of our 
children, by helping teachers teach, 
helping children learn, and helping 
local communities within their discretion 
use this as another tool to empower 
parents, to empower these varied 
communities. 

The irony of the Forest Service opposition 
I think speaks volumes, sadly, of 
the fact that ofttimes there are two 
Americas. There is the America that is 
the cause celebre of the news magazines, 
of the media events, of the cries 
on our National Mall to remember the 
children, to care for the children. 

Mr. Chairman, folks from the Sixth 
District of Arizona in remote communities, 
folks from rural America, do not 
often get the chance to come to Washington 
and engage in a photo op. They 
do not often get the chance to have of


ficials from the administration come 
with hordes of media to cover an hour 
in a schoolroom. 

But, Mr. Chairman, do rural children 
not count as much as those in the city? 
Do those who find their industry shut 
and their way of life abandoned not 
have the same rights as those who are 
easily accessible by the national media 
and so many opportune photo experiences? 
I say yes. 

Mr. Chairman, I believe Members on 
both sides of the aisle, rhetoric notwithstanding, 
understand full well our 
responsibility to children, whether 
they reside in a cosmopolitan place 
such as the Bay area of California or a 
rural location such as Apache County, 
Arizona. 

Mr. Chairman, I have often said that 
Mark Twain had it right. History does 
not repeat itself, but it rhymes. With 
this new Education Land Grant Act, we 
will reaffirm one of the greatest examples 
that has gone before. 

Another Republican member of the 
Committee on Ways and Means, Justin 
Smith Morrill, in the 1860s brought 
similar legislation to the floor of this 
body. Indeed, in the presidential campaign 
of 1860, it is often obscured because 
of the terrible Civil War that followed, 
but a one-term Member, former 
Member of this body, a man named 
Abraham Lincoln, told Congressman 
Morrill that his land grant act would 
be one of the pillars of the Lincoln administration. 


What the Morrill land grant act did 
for institutions of higher learning, 
granting back to our States federally 
controlled land for the establishment 
of institutions of higher learning with 
concentration in the agricultural and 
mechanical arts, what that act did to 
make higher education available to all 
Americans is what we seek to do today 
with this land grant act, for schools K 
through 12, for those who find themselves 
embattled and at an economic 
disadvantage, without the voices of the 
special interests in Washington, to step 
up and put them on the cover of 
‘‘Time’’ or ‘‘Newsweek,’’ or speak 
about the challenges they face, to say 
to rural America, this Congress recognizes 
the needs that you have. 

Mr. Chairman, bipartisan passage of 
this legislation is essential because the 
impact of this legislation will literally 
be ground breaking because it will empower 
local districts. It will give them 
the opportunity to have another tool 
at their disposal to educate their children 
as they see fit. 

That is why today I come to the floor 
of this House and I ask my colleagues 
to join me, not as Democrats or as Republicans, 
but as Americans, in offering 
this opportunity so that we can end 
the days that existed before, so that individual 
Members of Congress do not 
have to come with a bill exclusively designed 
for a school district in their 
area and hope that it is attached like 
an ornament on a Christmas tree to a 
larger piece of legislation and end up 
with a crazy quilt that exists at the 


H3778 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

discretion of this House and at the 
whims of the legislative winds that 
may blow. 

This legislation strikes a powerful 
blow on behalf of America’s children, 
and its impact will be far-reaching and 
have consequences that the pundits 
may ignore and the spinmeisters may 
do their best to sweep aside, but will 
not soon be forgotten in the classrooms 
of rural America. 

I ask my colleagues to join me in 
passage of this legislation. 

Mr. GEORGE MILLER of California. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, as I said before, we do 
not deny the bill has been, we believe, 
substantially improved with the substitute, 
as proposed, to the bill, as 
amended. We have no problem with 
this. 

I would say I do not think this bill is 
going to solve the education problems 
in this country. There is much for this 
Congress to do. While we are happy to 
help pass this legislation, we wish that 
the majority would get on with the 
rest of the agenda that the people in 
this country want with respect to 
schools, and clearly part of that is to 
protect our students and schools from 
violence. We wish that before the break 
you had taken up the legislation dealing 
with background checks at gun 
shows, child safety locks, and other 
measures to try to prevent the easy access 
and irresponsible access of young 
people to guns that have played out in 
the tragic incidents, oft too often, in 
this country. 

b1145 
We appreciate that this legislation 
may impact 40, 50, maybe 60, 70 districts 
that may have access to some 
lands, but there are millions of students 
that are in schools that are 
crumbling, that are not ready for the 
next century, that have not been wired, 
and we really think that the Federal 
Government ought to participate in 
helping, whether it is through the Tax 
Code or whether through loans or 
grants, to rebuilding some of these 
crumbling schools in America that are 
both urban and rural so that children 
can have a decent setting in which to 
learn and in which knowledge can be 
conveyed and can be acquired by these 
children. 
So this is an interesting piece of legislation, 
but it falls far short of what 
the country expects out of this Congress 
with respect to the children’s 
education in this Nation. And we would 
hope at some point, since we are only 
working a couple of hours a week 
around here, that we would find time 
to address that legislation and deal 
with the issue of revitalizing the infrastructure 
of education in this country. 
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 
Mr. HANSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume to 
concur with what the gentleman from 
Arizona said regarding this bill before 

us. I do not think that people who 
come from the large metropolitan 
areas or the large heavily populated 
States realize the problems we have in 
some of rural America. Many States, 
and we can look at a lot of the western 
States in particular and some in the 
south, where there is a small community 
surrounded by government land. I 
come from one of those communities 
myself where all of a sudden the Forest 
Service or BLM land has you hemmed 
in and communities can do nothing. 
They cannot touch it or do anything 
with it. Then, when they want to expand 
for a playground or expand their 
school, they have to come up against 
this bureaucracy of how do we do it. 

Nothing is more difficult, Mr. Chairman, 
in America than trying to figure 
out a way to get the Federal Government 
to trade, barter, or somehow buy 
some Federal land. It goes through the 
biggest fudge factory there is in America, 
and communities are lucky if they 
get it done. It normally takes 11 years 
before they even look at it. Therefore, 
this is an overdue piece of legislation. 

At this particular time we have a 
President of the United States and 
Vice President of the United States, 
and last Thursday the minority leader 
of the Democratic side, talking about 
the need for education, but we are not 
seeing too much happening around 
here. This is the first time this term, 
in my mind, that we have seen something 
that substantially helps schoolchildren. 


I commend the gentleman from Arizona 
for taking it upon himself to do 
it. I know he had some tough fights in 
committee to get it to this point, but 
finally we will get something that will 
help these little communities that are 
a forgotten part of America. Everyone 
thinks of the New Yorks and the San 
Franciscos and the L.A.s, but they do 
not think of the little Apache areas or 
Farmington, Utah, or some other little 
place in Wyoming. Finally, we are 
doing something for those folks. I commend 
the gentleman. 

Mr. THOMAS. Mr. Chairman, I support H.R. 
150, the Education Land Grant Act, because it 
will help children in my district in Kern County, 
California, to continue to attend their school 
situated on federally owned land in the Los 
Padres National Forest. Passage of this bill 
will finally give the U.S. Forest Service the authority 
to dedicate 10 acres of land currently 
used by the Frazier Park Elementary School 
for continuation of this school’s operation. 

Many schools in the rural West were built 
on land owned by the U.S. Forest Service. 
There is often no other choice because the 
communities are surrounded by government 
owned land—‘‘land-locked’’. However, under 
current regulations, these schools are facing 
skyrocketing lease prices from the Forest 
Service’s new land value assessment methods. 
Many schools are finding it almost impossible 
to remain open because of being hit by 
the higher leases. Yet, it makes no sense for 
the federal government to dedicate billions to 
general education while strangling specific 
schools that operate on federal land. 

Frazier Park Elementary is a good example 
of a rural school the bill could aid. Imbedded 

within the Los Padres National Forest, the 
school is now facing a financial crisis. Since 
1975, the School has leased and developed 
land from the Forest Service. Like many 
leaseholders, their property has been reevaluated 
by the Forest Service, and the lease has 
gone up by 1300% in one year from $1,290 
per year to $17,750 per year. 

Does it make sense to take education dollars 
from isolated, rural schools to put into the 
coffers of a federal land agency? Local Forest 
Service officials have repeatedly lamented that 
they had no authority to dedicate the land to 
the school district. Passage of this bill will finally 
give the Forest Service the authority and 
direction from Congress to make such a dedication 
in the case of Frazier Park Elementary 
School. 

The Education Land Grant Act provides real 
and immediate assistance to school districts 
like Frazier Park Elementary School that are 
asking for our help. I urge my colleagues to 
stand and join me in voting for this bill and 
provide a resounding answer that we do support 
education for our children. 

Mr. HANSEN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
back the balance of my time. 

The CHAIRMAN. All time for general 
debate has expired. 

Pursuant to the rule, the committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute 
printed in the bill is considered 
as an original bill for purposes of 
amendment and is considered as read. 

The text of the committee amendment 
in the nature of a substitute is as 
follows: 

H.R. 150 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of 
Representatives of the United States of America 
in Congress assembled, 
SECTION. 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Education Land 
Grant Act’’. 
SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF NATIONAL FOREST SYS


TEM LANDS FOR EDUCATIONAL PUR


POSES. 

(a) AUTHORITY TO CONVEY.—Upon application, 
the Secretary of Agriculture may convey 
National Forest System lands for use for educational 
purposes if the Secretary determines 
that— 
(1) the entity seeking the conveyance will use 
the conveyed land for a public or publicly funded 
elementary or secondary school, to provide 
grounds or facilities related to such a school, or 
for both purposes; 
(2) the conveyance will serve the public interest; 
(3) the land to be conveyed is not otherwise 
needed for the purposes of the National Forest 
System; and 
(4) the total acreage to be conveyed does not 
exceed the amount reasonably necessary for the 
proposed use. 
(b) ACREAGE LIMITATION.—A conveyance 
under this section may not exceed 80 acres. 
However, this limitation shall not be construed 
to preclude an entity from submitting a subsequent 
application under this section for an additional 
land conveyance if the entity can demonstrate 
to the Secretary a need for additional 
land. 
(c) COSTS AND MINERAL RIGHTS.—A conveyance 
under this section shall be for a nominal 
cost. The conveyance may not include the transfer 
of mineral rights. 
(d) REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.—When the Secretary 
receives an application under this section, 
the Secretary shall— 
(1) before the end of the 14-day period beginning 
on the date of the receipt of the application, 
provide notice of that receipt to the applicant; 
and 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3779 

(2) before the end of the 120-day period beginning 
on that date— 
(A) make a final determination whether or not 
to convey land pursuant to the application, and 
notify the applicant of that determination; or 
(B) submit written notice to the applicant containing 
the reasons why a final determination 
has not been made. 
(e) REVERSIONARY INTEREST.—If at any time 
after lands are conveyed pursuant to this section, 
the entity to whom the lands were conveyed 
attempts to transfer title to or control over 
the lands to another or the lands are devoted to 
a use other than the use for which the lands 
were conveyed, without the consent of the Secretary, 
title to the lands shall revert to the 
United States. 
The CHAIRMAN. During consideration 
of the bill for amendment, the 
Chair may accord priority in recognition 
to a Member offering an amendment 
that has been printed in the designated 
place in the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD. Those amendments will be 
considered read. 

The Chairman of the Committee of 
the Whole may postpone a demand for 
a recorded vote on any amendment and 
may reduce to a minimum of 5 minutes 
the time for voting on any proposed 
question that immediately follows another 
vote, provided the time for voting 
on the first question shall be a minimum 
of 15 minutes. 

Are there any amendments to this 
bill? 

If not, the question is on the committee 
amendment in the nature of a 
substitute. 

The committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute was agreed to. 

The CHAIRMAN. Under the rule, the 
Committee rises. 

Accordingly, the Committee rose; 
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
MCHUGH) having assumed the chair, 
Mr. SHAW, Chairman of the Committee 
of the Whole House on the State of the 
Union, reported that that Committee, 
having had under consideration the bill 

(H.R. 150) to amend the Act popularly 
known as the Recreation and Public 
Purposes Act to authorize disposal of 
certain public lands or national forest 
lands to local education agencies for 
use for elementary or secondary 
schools, including public charter 
schools, and for other purposes, pursuant 
to House Resolution 189, he reported 
the bill back to the House with 
an amendment adopted by the Committee 
of the Whole. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the rule, the previous question is ordered. 


The question is on the committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute. 


The committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute was agreed to. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the engrossment and 
third reading of the bill. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, and was read the 
third time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the passage of the bill. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

McGovern Porter Spratt 
McHugh Portman Stabenow

Mr. HANSEN. Mr. Speaker, I object 

to the vote on the ground that a 

McInnis Price (NC) Stark 
quorum is not present and make the McIntosh Pryce (OH) Stearns 

point of order that a quorum is not McIntyre Quinn Stenholm 
McKeon Radanovich Strickland

present. 

McKinney Rahall Stump

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Evi-

McNulty Ramstad Stupak 
dently a quorum is not present. Meehan Rangel Sununu 
The Sergeant at Arms will notify ab-

Meek (FL) Regula Sweeney 
Meeks (NY) Reyes Talent

sent Members. 

Menendez Reynolds Tancredo 
The vote was taken by electronic de-Metcalf Riley Tanner 

vice, and there were—yeas 420, nays 0, Mica Rivers Tauscher 
Millender-Rodriguez Tauzin

not voting 14, as follows: 

McDonald Roemer Taylor (MS)
[Roll No. 171] Miller (FL) Rogan Taylor (NC) 
YEAS—420 

Miller, Gary Rogers Terry 
Miller, George Rohrabacher Thomas 

Abercrombie Cummings Hill (IN) 

Minge Ros-Lehtinen Thompson (CA)

Ackerman Cunningham Hill (MT) 

Mink Rothman Thompson (MS)

Aderholt Danner Hilleary 

Moakley Roukema Thornberry

Allen Davis (FL) Hilliard 

Mollohan Roybal-Allard Thune 

Andrews Davis (IL) Hinchey 

Moore Royce Thurman 

Archer Davis (VA) Hinojosa 

Moran (KS) Ryan (WI) Tiahrt 

Armey Deal Hobson 

Moran (VA) Ryun (KS) Tierney

Bachus DeFazio Hoeffel 

Morella Sabo Toomey

Baird DeGette Hoekstra 

Murtha Salmon Towns 

Baker Delahunt Holden 

Myrick Sanchez Traficant 

Baldacci DeLauro Holt 

Nadler Sanders Turner 

Baldwin DeLay Hooley 

Napolitano Sandlin Udall (CO)

Ballenger DeMint Horn 

Neal Sanford Udall (NM)

Barcia Deutsch Hostettler 

Nethercutt Sawyer Upton

Barr Diaz-Balart Houghton 

Ney Saxton Velazquez

Barrett (NE) Dickey Hoyer 

Northup Scarborough Vento 

Barrett (WI) Dicks Hulshof 

Norwood Schaffer Visclosky

Bartlett Dingell Hunter 

Nussle Schakowsky Vitter 

Barton Dixon Hutchinson 

Oberstar Scott Walden 

Bass Doggett Hyde 

Obey Sensenbrenner Walsh 

Bateman Dooley Inslee 

Olver Serrano Wamp

Becerra Doolittle Isakson 

Ortiz Sessions Watkins 
Bentsen Doyle Istook 

Ose Shadegg Watt (NC)

Bereuter Dreier Jackson (IL) 

Owens Shaw Watts (OK)

Berkley Duncan Jackson-Lee 

Oxley Shays Waxman 
Berman Dunn (TX) 

Packard Sherman Weiner 

Berry Edwards Jefferson 

Pallone Sherwood Weldon (FL)

Biggert Ehlers Jenkins 

Pascrell Shimkus Weller 
Bilbray Ehrlich John 

Pastor Shows Wexler 

Bilirakis Emerson Johnson (CT) 

Paul Shuster Weygand

Bishop Engel Johnson, E. B. 

Payne Simpson Whitfield 
Blagojevich English Johnson, Sam 

Pease Sisisky Wicker 

Blumenauer Eshoo Jones (NC) 

Pelosi Skeen Wilson 

Blunt Etheridge Jones (OH) 

Peterson (MN) Skelton Wise 
Boehlert Evans Kanjorski 

Peterson (PA) Slaughter Wolf 

Boehner Everett Kaptur 

Petri Smith (NJ) Woolsey

Bonilla Ewing Kasich 

Phelps Smith (TX) Wu 
Bonior Farr Kelly 

Pickering Smith (WA) Wynn

Bono Fattah Kennedy 

Pitts Snyder Young (AK)

Borski Filner Kildee 

Pombo Souder Young (FL)
Boswell Fletcher Kind (WI) 

Pomeroy SpenceBoyd Foley King (NY) 

Brady (PA) Forbes Kleczka 

NOT VOTING—14

Brady (TX) Ford Klink 

Brown (FL) Fossella Knollenberg Bliley Kilpatrick Rush 
Brown (OH) Fowler Kolbe Boucher Kingston Smith (MI) 
Bryant Frank (MA) Kucinich Brown (CA) Lee Waters 
Burr Franks (NJ) Kuykendall Chenoweth McCollum Weldon (PA) 

Burton Frelinghuysen LaFalce Crane Pickett 
Buyer Frost LaHood 
Callahan Gallegly Lampson 
Calvert Ganske Lantos 

b

1213 
Camp Gejdenson Largent 
Campbell Gekas Larson So the bill was passed. 
Canady Gephardt Latham 

The result of the vote was announced

Cannon Gibbons LaTourette 
Capps Gilchrest Lazio as above recorded. 
Capuano Gillmor Leach 

The title of the bill was amended so

Cardin Gilman Levin 
Carson Gonzalez Lewis (CA) 

as to read: 
Castle Goode Lewis (GA) 

‘‘A bill to authorize the Secretary of

Chabot Goodlatte Lewis (KY) 

Chambliss Goodling Linder Agriculture to convey National Forest 
Clay Gordon Lipinski System lands for use for educational 
Clayton Goss LoBiondo 

purposes, and for other purposes.’’

Clement Graham Lofgren 
Clyburn Granger Lowey A motion to reconsider was laid on 
Coble Green (TX) Lucas (KY) 

the table. 

Coburn Green (WI) Lucas (OK) 
Collins Greenwood Luther Stated for: 
Combest Gutierrez Maloney (CT) 

Mr. SMITH of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, on

Condit Gutknecht Maloney (NY) 
Conyers Hall (OH) Manzullo rollcall No. 171, I was inadvertently detained in 

Cook Hall (TX) Markey a meeting with AARP re Social Security. HadCooksey Hansen Martinez 

I been present, I would have voted ’’yes.’’

Costello Hastings (FL) Mascara 

Cox Hastings (WA) Matsui Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall No. 171, 
Coyne Hayes McCarthy (MO) 

I was unavoidably absent from the vote on

Cramer Hayworth McCarthy (NY) 
Crowley Hefley McCrery 

H.R. 150. Had I been present, I would have 
Cubin Herger McDermott voted ‘‘yes.’’ 

H3780 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

Ms. KILPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, due to official 
business in the 15th Congressional District 
of Michigan, I was not able to record my vote 
for two measures considered in the U.S. 
House of Representatives today. Had I been 
present, I would have voted ‘‘aye’’ for rollcall 
number 170, and I would have voted ‘‘aye’’ for 
rollcall number 171. 

f 


GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that all Members may 
have 5 legislative days within which to 
revise and extend their remarks and to 
include tabular and extraneous material 
on H.R. 1906. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
LAHOOD). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from New Mexico? 


There was no objection. 

f 


AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, 
FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN


ISTRATION, AND RELATED 
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS 
ACT, 2000 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 185 and rule 
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in 
the Committee of the Whole House on 
the State of the Union for the further 
consideration of the bill, H.R. 1906. 

b1215 

IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE 

Accordingly, the House resolved 
itself into the Committee of the Whole 
House on the State of the Union for the 
further consideration of the bill (H.R. 
1906) making appropriations for Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and 
Drug Administration, and Related 
Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2000, and for other purposes, 
with Mr. PEASE in the chair. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The CHAIRMAN. When the Committee 
of the Whole rose on Wednesday, 
May 26, 1999, the amendment by 
the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. 
COBURN) had been disposed of and the 
bill was open for amendment from page 
13, line 1, to page 14, line 19. 

Are there further amendments to 
this portion of the bill? 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, I move to 
strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, the Committee of the 
Whole has had this bill under consideration 
for 2 days. We have consumed 
about 11 hours of floor time so far. We 
have disposed of 10 amendments by recorded 
votes and we have reached page 
14 of a 70-page appropriations bill. I believe 
that this is a record for this bill. 
I rise to make the point that the membership 
has been very strong in its support 
of the Committee on Appropriations 
and of the votes cast on the 10 
amendments; over 70 percent have supported 
the committee’s recommendations 
and less than 30 percent have opposed 
them. I want to take this oppor


tunity to thank the membership for 
supporting our work and to ask for its 
continued support. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I move 
to strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, I would just like to inform 
the House that we are going to 
proceed forward on this bill today. It is 
our hope, in view of the crisis in rural 
America, we can move through it expeditiously. 
We look forward to working 
with the gentleman from New Mexico 
(Mr. SKEEN) and to try to move 
through the amendments that remain. 
I think further delay is not in the interest 
of the Nation. We would like to 
move this bill to conference as quickly 
as possible. We look forward to proceeding 
with the amendments in order. 
I look forward to the first amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read. 

The Clerk read as follows: 

None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph 
shall be available to carry out research 
related to the production, processing 
or marketing of tobacco or tobacco products. 

NATIVE AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS ENDOWMENT 
FUND 

For establishment of a Native American 
institutions endowment fund, as authorized 
by Public Law 103–382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), 
$4,600,000. 

EXTENSION ACTIVITIES 
Payments to States, the District of Columbia, 
Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, 
Micronesia, Northern Marianas, and American 
Samoa: for payments for cooperative 
extension work under the Smith-Lever Act, 
to be distributed under sections 3(b) and 3(c) 
of said Act, and under section 208(c) of Public 
Law 93–471, for retirement and employees’ 
compensation costs for extension agents and 
for costs of penalty mail for cooperative extension 
agents and State extension directors, 
$276,548,000; payments for extension work at 
the 1994 Institutions under the Smith-Lever 
Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b)(3)), $2,060,000; payments 
for the nutrition and family education program 
for low-income areas under section 3(d) 
of the Act, $58,695,000; payments for the pest 
management program under section 3(d) of 
the Act, $10,783,000; payments for the farm 
safety program under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$3,000,000; payments for the pesticide impact 
assessment program under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $3,214,000; payments to upgrade research, 
extension, and teaching facilities at 
the 1890 land-grant colleges, including 
Tuskegee University, as authorized by section 
1447 of Public Law 95–113 (7 U.S.C. 3222b), 
$8,426,000, to remain available until expended; 
payments for the rural development 
centers under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$908,000; payments for a groundwater quality 
program under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$9,561,000; payments for youth-at-risk programs 
under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$9,000,000; payments for a food safety program 
under section 3(d) of the Act, $7,365,000; 
payments for carrying out the provisions of 
the Renewable Resources Extension Act of 
1978, $3,192,000; payments for Indian reservation 
agents under section 3(d) of the Act, 
$1,714,000; payments for sustainable agriculture 
programs under section 3(d) of the 
Act, $3,309,000; payments for rural health and 
safety education as authorized by section 
2390 of Public Law 101–624 (7 U.S.C. 2661 note, 
2662), $2,628,000; payments for cooperative extension 
work by the colleges receiving the 
benefits of the second Morrill Act (7 U.S.C. 
321–326 and 328) and Tuskegee University, 
$25,843,000; and for Federal administration 
and coordination including administration of 

the Smith-Lever Act, and the Act of September 
29, 1977 (7 U.S.C. 341–349), and section 
1361(c) of the Act of October 3, 1980 (7 U.S.C. 
301 note), and to coordinate and provide program 
leadership for the extension work of 
the Department and the several States and 
insular possessions, $12,741,000; in all, 
$438,987,000: Provided, That funds hereby appropriated 
pursuant to section 3(c) of the Act 
of June 26, 1953, and section 506 of the Act of 
June 23, 1972, shall not be paid to any State, 
the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, 
Guam, or the Virgin Islands, Micronesia, 
Northern Marianas, and American Samoa 
prior to availability of an equal sum from 
non-Federal sources for expenditure during 
the current fiscal year. 

INTEGRATED ACTIVITIES 
For the integrated research, education, 
and extension competitive grants programs, 
including necessary administrative expenses, 
$10,000,000. 
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR 
MARKETING AND REGULATORY PROGRAMS 
For necessary salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Under Secretary for Marketing 
and Regulatory Programs to administer programs 
under the laws enacted by the Congress 
for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection 
Service, the Agricultural Marketing 
Service, and the Grain Inspection, Packers 
and Stockyards Administration, $618,000. 

ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION 

SERVICE 

SALARIES AND EXPENSES 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, 
including those pursuant to the Act of February 
28, 1947 (21 U.S.C. 114b–c), necessary to 
prevent, control, and eradicate pests and 
plant and animal diseases; to carry out inspection, 
quarantine, and regulatory activities; 
to discharge the authorities of the Secretary 
of Agriculture under the Act of March 
2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468; 7 U.S.C. 426–426b); and to 
protect the environment, as authorized by 
law, $444,000,000, of which $4,105,000 shall be 
available for the control of outbreaks of insects, 
plant diseases, animal diseases and for 
control of pest animals and birds to the extent 
necessary to meet emergency conditions: 
Provided, That no funds shall be used 
to formulate or administer a brucellosis 
eradication program for the current fiscal 
year that does not require minimum matching 
by the States of at least 40 percent: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall 
be available for field employment pursuant 
to the second sentence of section 706(a) of 
the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and 
not to exceed $40,000 shall be available for 
employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available 
for the operation and maintenance of 
aircraft and the purchase of not to exceed 
four, of which two shall be for replacement 
only: Provided further, That, in addition, in 
emergencies which threaten any segment of 
the agricultural production industry of this 
country, the Secretary may transfer from 
other appropriations or funds available to 
the agencies or corporations of the Department 
such sums as may be deemed necessary, 
to be available only in such emergencies 
for the arrest and eradication of contagious 
or infectious disease or pests of animals, 
poultry, or plants, and for expenses in 
accordance with the Act of February 28, 1947, 
and section 102 of the Act of September 21, 
1944, and any unexpended balances of funds 
transferred for such emergency purposes in 
the next preceding fiscal year shall be 
merged with such transferred amounts: Provided 
further, That appropriations hereunder 
shall be available pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 
2250) for the repair and alteration of leased 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3781 

buildings and improvements, but unless otherwise 
provided the cost of altering any one 
building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 
10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building. 

In fiscal year 2000, the agency is authorized 
to collect fees to cover the total costs of providing 
technical assistance, goods, or services 
requested by States, other political subdivisions, 
domestic and international organizations, 
foreign governments, or individuals, 
provided that such fees are structured such 
that any entity’s liability for such fees is 
reasonably based on the technical assistance, 
goods, or services provided to the entity by 
the agency, and such fees shall be credited to 
this account, to remain available until expended, 
without further appropriation, for 
providing such assistance, goods, or services. 

Of the total amount available under this 
heading in fiscal year 2000, $87,000,000 shall be 
derived from user fees deposited in the Agricultural 
Quarantine Inspection User Fee Account. 


BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES 
For plans, construction, repair, preventive 
maintenance, environmental support, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase 
of fixed equipment or facilities, as authorized 
by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and acquisition of 
land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $7,200,000, 
to remain available until expended. 
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE 
MARKETING SERVICES 
For necessary expenses to carry on services 
related to consumer protection, agricultural 
marketing and distribution, transportation, 
and regulatory programs, as authorized 
by law, and for administration and coordination 
of payments to States, including 
field employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225) and not to exceed 
$90,000 for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109, 
$49,152,000, including funds for the wholesale 
market development program for the design 
and development of wholesale and farmer 
market facilities for the major metropolitan 
areas of the country: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available pursuant to 
law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and repair 
of buildings and improvements, but the 
cost of altering any one building during the 
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the 
current replacement value of the building. 
Fees may be collected for the cost of standardization 
activities, as established by regulation 
pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701). 
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE LEVEL 
Not to exceed $60,730,000 (from fees collected) 
shall be obligated during the current 
fiscal year for administrative expenses: Provided, 
That if crop size is understated and/or 
other uncontrollable events occur, the agency 
may exceed this limitation by up to 10 
percent with notification to the Appropriations 
Committees. 

FUNDS FOR STRENGTHENING MARKETS, INCOME, 

AND SUPPLY (SECTION 32) 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 

Funds available under section 32 of the Act 
of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c) shall be used 
only for commodity program expenses as authorized 
therein, and other related operating 
expenses, except for: (1) transfers to the Department 
of Commerce as authorized by the 
Fish and Wildlife Act of August 8, 1956; (2) 
transfers otherwise provided in this Act; and 

(3) not more than $12,443,000 for formulation 
and administration of marketing agreements 
and orders pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing 
Agreement Act of 1937 and the Agricultural 
Act of 1961. 
PAYMENTS TO STATES AND POSSESSIONS 
For payments to departments of agriculture, 
bureaus and departments of mar


kets, and similar agencies for marketing activities 
under section 204(b) of the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)), 
$1,200,000. 

GRAIN INSPECTION, PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS 
ADMINISTRATION 

SALARIES AND EXPENSES 

For necessary expenses to carry out the 
provisions of the United States Grain Standards 
Act, for the administration of the Packers 
and Stockyards Act, for certifying procedures 
used to protect purchasers of farm 
products, and the standardization activities 
related to grain under the Agricultural Marketing 
Act of 1946, including field employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $25,000 for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $26,448,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall be available 
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the 
alteration and repair of buildings and improvements, 
but the cost of altering any one 
building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 
10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building. 

LIMITATION ON INSPECTION AND WEIGHING 
SERVICES EXPENSES 

Not to exceed $42,557,000 (from fees collected) 
shall be obligated during the current 
fiscal year for inspection and weighing services: 
Provided, That if grain export activities 
require additional supervision and oversight, 
or other uncontrollable factors occur, this 
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 percent 
with notification to the Appropriations 
Committees. 

OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD 
SAFETY 

For necessary salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Under Secretary for Food Safety 
to administer the laws enacted by the 
Congress for the Food Safety and Inspection 
Service, $446,000. 

FOOD SAFETY AND INSPECTION SERVICE 
For necessary expenses to carry out services 
authorized by the Federal Meat Inspection 
Act, the Poultry Products Inspection 
Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act, 
$652,955,000, and in addition, $1,000,000 may be 
credited to this account from fees collected 
for the cost of laboratory accreditation as 
authorized by section 1017 of Public Law 102– 

237: Provided, That this appropriation shall 
not be available for shell egg surveillance 
under section 5(d) of the Egg Products Inspection 
Act (21 U.S.C. 1034(d)): Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available 
for field employment pursuant to the 
second sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic 
Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to 
exceed $75,000 shall be available for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, 
That this appropriation shall be available 
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration 
and repair of buildings and improvements, 
but the cost of altering any one 
building during the fiscal year shall not exceed 
10 percent of the current replacement 
value of the building. 
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FARM 
AND FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICES 

For necessary salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Under Secretary for Farm and 
Foreign Agricultural Services to administer 
the laws enacted by Congress for the Farm 
Service Agency, the Foreign Agricultural 
Service, the Risk Management Agency, and 
the Commodity Credit Corporation, $572,000. 

FARM SERVICE AGENCY 

SALARIES AND EXPENSES 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 

For necessary expenses for carrying out 
the administration and implementation of 

programs administered by the Farm Service 
Agency, $794,839,000: Provided, That the Secretary 
is authorized to use the services, facilities, 
and authorities (but not the funds) 
of the Commodity Credit Corporation to 
make program payments for all programs administered 
by the Agency: Provided further, 
That other funds made available to the 
Agency for authorized activities may be advanced 
to and merged with this account: Provided 
further, That these funds shall be available 
for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$1,000,000 shall be available for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109. 

STATE MEDIATION GRANTS 
For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the 
Agricultural Credit Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5101– 
5106), $4,000,000. 
DAIRY INDEMNITY PROGRAM 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 
For necessary expenses involved in making 
indemnity payments to dairy farmers for 
milk or cows producing such milk and manufacturers 
of dairy products who have been directed 
to remove their milk or dairy products 
from commercial markets because it 
contained residues of chemicals registered 
and approved for use by the Federal Government, 
and in making indemnity payments 
for milk, or cows producing such milk, at a 
fair market value to any dairy farmer who is 
directed to remove his milk from commercial 
markets because of: (1) the presence of 
products of nuclear radiation or fallout if 
such contamination is not due to the fault of 
the farmer; or (2) residues of chemicals or 
toxic substances not included under the first 
sentence of the Act of August 13, 1968 (7 

U.S.C. 450j), if such chemicals or toxic substances 
were not used in a manner contrary 
to applicable regulations or labeling instructions 
provided at the time of use and the 
contamination is not due to the fault of the 
farmer, $450,000, to remain available until expended 
(7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That none 
of the funds contained in this Act shall be 
used to make indemnity payments to any 
farmer whose milk was removed from commercial 
markets as a result of the farmer’s 
willful failure to follow procedures prescribed 
by the Federal Government: Provided 
further, That this amount shall be transferred 
to the Commodity Credit Corporation: 
Provided further, That the Secretary is authorized 
to utilize the services, facilities, 
and authorities of the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for the purpose of making dairy 
indemnity disbursements. 
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSURANCE FUND 
PROGRAM ACCOUNT 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 
For gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as authorized 
by 7 U.S.C. 1928–1929, to be available 
from funds in the Agricultural Credit Insurance 
Fund, as follows: farm ownership loans, 
$559,422,000, of which $431,373,000 shall be for 
guaranteed loans; operating loans, 
$2,295,284,000, of which $1,697,842,000 shall be 
for unsubsidized guaranteed loans and 
$97,442,000 shall be for subsidized guaranteed 
loans; Indian tribe land acquisition loans as 
authorized by 25 U.S.C. 488, $1,028,000; for 
emergency insured loans, $53,000,000 to meet 
the needs resulting from natural disasters; 
and for boll weevil eradication program 
loans as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1989, 
$100,000,000. 
For the cost of direct and guaranteed 
loans, including the cost of modifying loans 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as follows: farm ownership 
loans, $7,243,000, of which $2,416,000 shall 
be for guaranteed loans; operating loans, 


H3782 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

$61,825,000, of which $23,940,000 shall be for 
unsubsidized guaranteed loans and $8,585,000 
shall be for subsidized guaranteed loans; Indian 
tribe land acquisition loans as authorized 
by 25 U.S.C. 488, $21,000; and for emergency 
insured loans, $8,231,000 to meet the 
needs resulting from natural disasters. 

In addition, for administrative expenses 
necessary to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan programs, $214,161,000, of which 
$209,861,000 shall be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ‘‘Farm 
Service Agency, Salaries and Expenses’’. 

RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY 
For administrative and operating expenses, 
as authorized by the Federal Agriculture Improvement 
and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 
6933), $70,716,000: Provided, That not to exceed 
$700 shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses, as authorized 
by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i). 
CORPORATIONS 
The following corporations and agencies 
are hereby authorized to make expenditures, 
within the limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to each such corporation or 
agency and in accord with law, and to make 
contracts and commitments without regard 
to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 
104 of the Government Corporation Control 
Act as may be necessary in carrying out 
the programs set forth in the budget for the 

current fiscal year for such corporation or 
agency, except as hereinafter provided. 
FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORPORATION FUND 

For payments as authorized by section 516 
of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, such 
sums as may be necessary, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b). 

COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION FUND 

REIMBURSEMENT FOR NET REALIZED LOSSES 

For fiscal year 2000, such sums as may be 
necessary to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for net realized losses sustained, 
but not previously reimbursed (estimated 
to be $14,368,000,000 in the President’s 
fiscal year 2000 Budget Request (H. Doc. 106– 
3)), but not to exceed $14,368,000,000, pursuant 
to section 2 of the Act of August 17, 1961 (15 
U.S.C. 713a–11). 

OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE FOR 
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT 

For fiscal year 2000, the Commodity Credit 
Corporation shall not expend more than 
$5,000,000 for expenses to comply with the requirement 
of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, 
and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 
9607(g), and section 6001 of the Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6961: 
Provided, That expenses shall be for operations 
and maintenance costs only and that 
other hazardous waste management costs 
shall be paid for by the USDA Hazardous 
Waste Management appropriation in this 
Act. 

TITLE II 

CONSERVATION PROGRAMS 

OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR 

NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT 
For necessary salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Under Secretary for Natural Resources 
and Environment to administer the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Forest 
Service and the Natural Resources Conservation 
Service, $693,000. 
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE 

CONSERVATION OPERATIONS 

For necessary expenses for carrying out 
the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16 

U.S.C. 590a–f), including preparation of conservation 
plans and establishment of measures 
to conserve soil and water (including 
farm irrigation and land drainage and such 
special measures for soil and water management 
as may be necessary to prevent floods 
and the siltation of reservoirs and to control 
agricultural related pollutants); operation of 
conservation plant materials centers; classification 
and mapping of soil; dissemination 
of information; acquisition of lands, water, 
and interests therein for use in the plant materials 
program by donation, exchange, or 
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100 
pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7 

U.S.C. 428a); purchase and erection or alteration 
or improvement of permanent and temporary 
buildings; and operation and maintenance 
of aircraft, $654,243,000, to remain 
available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b), of 
which not less than $6,124,000 is for snow survey 
and water forecasting and not less than 
$9,238,000 is for operation and establishment 
of the plant materials centers: Provided, 
That appropriations hereunder shall be 
available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for construction 
and improvement of buildings and 
public improvements at plant materials centers, 
except that the cost of alterations and 
improvements to other buildings and other 
public improvements shall not exceed 
$250,000: Provided further, That when buildings 
or other structures are erected on non-
Federal land, that the right to use such land 
is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall 
be available for technical assistance and related 
expenses to carry out programs authorized 
by section 202(c) of title II of the Colorado 
River Basin Salinity Control Act of 1974 
(43 U.S.C. 1592(c)): Provided further, That no 
part of this appropriation may be expended 
for soil and water conservation operations 
under the Act of April 27, 1935 in demonstration 
projects: Provided further, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $25,000 shall be available 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That qualified local engineers 
may be temporarily employed at per diem 
rates to perform the technical planning work 
of the Service (16 U.S.C. 590e–2). 
WATERSHED SURVEYS AND PLANNING 
For necessary expenses to conduct research, 
investigation, and surveys of watersheds 
of rivers and other waterways, and for 
small watershed investigations and planning, 
in accordance with the Watershed Protection 
and Flood Prevention Act approved August 
4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 1001–1009), $10,368,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall be available 
for employment pursuant to the second 
sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$110,000 shall be available for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109. 
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION 
OPERATIONS 
For necessary expenses to carry out preventive 
measures, including but not limited 
to research, engineering operations, methods 
of cultivation, the growing of vegetation, rehabilitation 
of existing works and changes in 
use of land, in accordance with the Watershed 
Protection and Flood Prevention Act 
approved August 4, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 1001–1005 
and 1007–1009), the provisions of the Act of 
April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a–f), and in accordance 
with the provisions of laws relating to 
the activities of the Department, $99,443,000, 
to remain available until expended (7 U.S.C. 
2209b) (of which up to $15,000,000 may be 
available for the watersheds authorized 
under the Flood Control Act approved June 
22, 1936 (33 U.S.C. 701 and 16 U.S.C. 1006a)): 
Provided, That not to exceed $47,000,000 of 
this appropriation shall be available for 
technical assistance: Provided further, That 

this appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of 
section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 

U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $200,000 shall 
be available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109: Provided further, That not to exceed 
$1,000,000 of this appropriation is available to 
carry out the purposes of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 (Public Law 93–205), including 
cooperative efforts as contemplated 
by that Act to relocate endangered or 
threatened species to other suitable habitats 
as may be necessary to expedite project construction. 
RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT 

For necessary expenses in planning and 
carrying out projects for resource conservation 
and development and for sound land use 
pursuant to the provisions of section 32(e) of 
title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant 
Act (7 U.S.C. 1010–1011; 76 Stat. 607), the Act 
of April 27, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 590a–f), and the Agriculture 
and Food Act of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3451– 
3461), $35,265,000, to remain available until 
expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, That this 
appropriation shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $50,000 shall be available 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109. 

TITLE III 

RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS 

OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR RURAL 

DEVELOPMENT 
For necessary salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Under Secretary for Rural Development 
to administer programs under the 
laws enacted by the Congress for the Rural 
Housing Service, the Rural Business-Cooperative 
Service, and the Rural Utilities Service 
of the Department of Agriculture, $588,000. 
RURAL COMMUNITY ADVANCEMENT PROGRAM 
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 
For the cost of direct loans, loan guarantees, 
and grants, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 
1926, 1926a, 1926c, 1926d, and 1932, except for 
sections 381E, 381G, 381H, 381N, and 381O of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 2009f), $666,103,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which 
$34,387,000 shall be for rural community programs 
described in section 381E(d)(1) of such 
Act; of which $579,216,000 shall be for the 
rural utilities programs described in sections 
381E(d)(2), 306C(a)(2), and 306D of such Act; 
and of which $52,500,000 shall be for the rural 
business and cooperative development programs 
described in sections 381E(d)(3) and 
310B(f) of such Act: Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated for rural community 
programs, $5,000,000 shall be made available 
for hazardous weather early warning systems; 
and $6,000,000 shall be available for a 
Rural Community Development Initiative: 
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated 
for the rural business and cooperative 
development programs, not to exceed 
$500,000 shall be made available for a grant to 
a qualified national organization to provide 
technical assistance for rural transportation 
in order to promote economic development; 
and $5,000,000 shall be made available for 
partnership technical assistance grants to 
rural communities: Provided further, That of 
the amount appropriated for rural utilities 
programs, not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be 
for water and waste disposal systems to benefit 
the Colonias along the United States/ 
Mexico border, including grants pursuant to 
section 306C of such Act; not to exceed 
$20,000,000 shall be for water and waste disposal 
systems for rural and native villages in 
Alaska pursuant to section 306D of such Act; 
not to exceed $16,215,000 shall be for technical 
assistance grants for rural waste systems 
pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3783 

Act; and not to exceed $5,300,000 shall be for 
contracting with qualified national organizations 
for a circuit rider program to provide 
technical assistance for rural water systems: 
Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $45,245,000 shall 
be available through June 30, 2000, for empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities, 
as authorized by Public Law 103–66, of 
which $2,106,000 shall be for rural community 
programs described in section 381E(d)(1) of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act; of which $34,704,000 shall be for the 
rural utilities programs described in section 
381E(d)(2) of such Act; of which $8,435,000 
shall be for the rural business and cooperative 
development programs described in section 
381E(d)(3) of such Act: Provided further, 
That any obligated and unobligated balances 
available from prior years for the ‘‘Rural 
Utilities Assistance Program’’ account shall 
be transferred to and merged with this account. 


AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MR. SANDERS 

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. Chairman, I offer 
an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Amendment No. 12 offered by Mr. SANDERS: 

Page 35, line 7 (relating to the rural community 
advancement program), insert after 
the dollar amount the following: ‘‘(increased 
by $3,000,000)’’. 

Page 53, line 7 (relating to ocean freight 
differential grants), insert after the dollar 
amount the following: ‘‘(reduced by 
$3,000,000)’’. 

Mr. SANDERS. Mr. Chairman, the 
amendment I am offering would provide 
$1 million in the rural community 
advancement program in order to fund 
a national pilot program to promote 
agritourism. The purpose of this program 
is to provide another means of income 
for America’s struggling family 
farmers. I think the plight of the family 
farmer in America is well documented 
and I do not need to get into it 
at this time. But I believe that the 
body here knows that many, many 
thousands of hardworking family farmers 
are struggling to keep their farms 
afloat and to keep their heads above 
water. I am impressed with the work 
done in the chairman’s home State of 
New Mexico with agritourism, and I 
know the gentleman from New Mexico 
has been very active in this program. I 
think it would be very useful to farmers 
in the State of Vermont and farmers 
throughout this country to expand 
this general concept into a national 
program. The concept here is that in 
States throughout this country, tourism 
brings in substantial sums of 
money. One of the reasons people come 
to the State of Vermont or come to 
many of the other beautiful States in 
this country is because of the work 
done by family farmers in keeping the 
land open and keeping our landscape 
beautiful. 

Unfortunately, in many areas 
throughout the State, the farmers 
themselves do not substantially benefit 
from the tourism that comes into rural 
areas. So it seems to me that if we 
could get a pilot program developed at 
the Federal level by which States can 

develop their own innovative programs, 
this would be a means by which tourism 
dollars can come into the hands of 
farmers and I think would well serve 
rural America. 

My understanding, Mr. Chairman, is 
that the chairman of the committee 
has agreed to accept this amendment. I 
am very grateful to him for that. 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, if the 
gentleman will yield, this amendment 
has a lot of value for the rural parts of 
the United States. We have a program 
in New Mexico that was patterned after 
the same one that the gentleman is 
headed for. We accept the amendment. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. SANDERS. I yield to the gentlewoman 
from Ohio. 

Ms. KAPTUR. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. I just wanted to rise in 
support of this important amendment 
and to say that we would certainly 
want to encourage the Department of 
Agriculture to do as good a job as possible 
on linking many of the rural 
events around the country, many of 
our special fairs, rural shows, whether 
it is equipment, whether it is planting 
or whatever it might be. This is an incredible 
display of American innovation 
and creativity. I just really want 
to compliment the gentleman from 
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) for seeing this 
opportunity which can benefit 
Vermont, an incredible State. I am so 
happy to have traveled there myself, 
just the sheer beauty of it would be of 
interest to our own people and people 
from abroad, but all of the counties 
and townships and communities across 
the country that are bringing forth 
their wares and their culture and to 
make this more open and available to 
people who are touring. I just think the 
gentleman has an excellent idea and 
support this amendment. 

Mr. SANDERS. I thank both the 
chairman and the ranking member 
very much for their support. The bottom 
line is that we are all fighting 
very hard to see that our family farmers 
survive. Agritourism is one way we 
can get some cash into the pockets of 
our family farmers. I thank both the 
chairman and the ranking member for 
their support. 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS). 

The amendment was agreed to. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read. 

The Clerk read as follows: 

RURAL HOUSING SERVICE 

RURAL HOUSING INSURANCE FUND PROGRAM 
ACCOUNT 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 

For gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as authorized 
by title V of the Housing Act of 
1949, to be available from funds in the rural 
housing insurance fund, as follows: 
$4,537,632,000 for loans to section 502 borrowers, 
as determined by the Secretary, of 
which $3,200,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized 
guaranteed loans; $32,400,000 for section 504 
housing repair loans; $100,000,000 for section 
538 guaranteed multi-family housing loans; 

$25,000,000 for section 514 farm labor housing; 
$120,000,000 for section 515 rental housing; 
$5,152,000 for section 524 site loans; $7,503,000 
for credit sales of acquired property, of 
which up to $1,250,000 may be for multi-family 
credit sales; and $5,000,000 for section 523 
self-help housing land development loans. 

For the cost of direct and guaranteed 
loans, including the cost of modifying loans, 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, as follows: section 502 
loans, $133,620,000, of which $19,520,000 shall 
be for unsubsidized guaranteed loans; section 
504 housing repair loans, $9,900,000; section 
538 multi-family housing guaranteed loans, 
$480,000; section 514 farm labor housing, 
$11,308,000; section 515 rental housing, 
$47,616,000; section 524 site loans, $4,000; credit 
sales of acquired property, $874,000, of 
which up to $494,250 may be for multi-family 
credit sales; and section 523 self-help housing 
land development loans, $281,000: Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated in 
this paragraph, $9,829,000 shall be for empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities, 
as authorized by Public Law 103–66, 
empowerment zones as authorized by Section 
951 of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 (Public 
Law 105–34), enterprise communities as authorized 
by Division A, Title VII, Section 766 
of the Fiscal Year 1999 Omnibus Appropriations 
Act (Public Law 105–277), and communities 
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture 
as Rural Economic Area Partnership 
Zones: Provided further, That if such funds 
are not obligated for empowerment zones 
and enterprise communities by June 30, 2000, 
they shall remain available for other authorized 
purposes under this head. 

In addition, for administrative expenses 
necessary to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan programs, $377,879,000, which 
shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ‘‘Rural Housing Service, 
Salaries and Expenses’’. 

AMENDMENT NO. 18 OFFERED BY MS. KAPTUR 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I offer 
an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Amendment No. 18 offered by Ms. 
KAPTUR: 

In the third paragraph under the headings 
‘‘RURAL HOUSING SERVICE’’ and ‘‘RURAL HOUSING 
INSURANCE FUND PROGRAM ACCOUNT (INCLUDING 
TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)’’, strike the 
period at the end of the paragraph and insert 
the following: ‘‘: Provided, That of this 
amount the Secretary of Agriculture may 
transfer up to $7,000,000 to the appropriation 
for ‘Outreach for Socially Disadvantaged 
Farmers’.’’. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, this 
amendment relates to a special effort 
for outreach for our socially disadvantaged 
farmers. Members might recall, 
last year we made an effort to try to 
help the Department of Agriculture to 
resolve former civil rights problems 
that existed with loan programs and 
programs that were there to reach 
many of the small-scale farmers and 
ranchers, those grants that go through 
our 1890 and 1862 land grant institutions, 
American Indian community colleges, 
Hispanic- and Latino-serving institutions, 
as well as all minorities involved 
in agriculture. I think we did a 
good job of it. We took the unusual 
step of waiving statutes of limitation 
to allow complaints involving racial 
discrimination to move forward. This 


H3784 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

amendment this year would not increase 
the budget but would merely 
allow the Secretary of Agriculture to 
transfer up to $7 million from the rural 
housing salaries and expenses account 
to this program. If the Secretary uses 
the full authority to do that, that 
would mean that this outreach program 
for socially disadvantaged farmers 
would be brought up to the $10 million 
request level by the administration 
for fiscal year 2000. This program 
is important, because it provides technical 
and managerial assistance to 
small-scale farmers and ranchers. 
There is a particular emphasis in the 
program on farmers from minority 
groups, but the program is not just 
limited to racial or ethnic minorities. 
It is carried out through grants to colleges 
and universities, including the 
1890 and 1862 land grant institutions, 
American Indian community colleges 
and Hispanic- and Latino-serving institutions 
as well as through grants to 
community-based organizations 
throughout our country. These institutions 
and organizations in turn provide 
intensive training and management assistance 
to small farmers and ranchers. 
This assistance includes, for example, 
preparing individualized farm plans, 
helping in upgrading accounting systems, 
and applying for credit, aid and 
better understanding and taking advantage 
of USDA programs and services. 


This outreach is especially crucial 
now because of the crisis afflicting 
rural America. And it is vital to helping 
small and minority farmers and 
ranchers weather these hard times and 
stay on the land. I think it also adds to 
an important civil rights sensitivity 
that we need to continue pressing at 
the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 

I want to compliment Secretary 
Glickman and his staff for being open 
to the efforts of this Congress to serve 
all of America. For these reasons, I am 
pleased to offer this amendment. I 
greatly appreciate the support of the 
gentleman from New Mexico for this 
initiative, and I urge adoption of the 
amendment. 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, I support 
the adoption of the gentlewoman’s 
amendment. I thank her for her concern. 
The committee has increased 
funding for civil rights programs at 
USDA in the past several years but 
progress has fallen far short of their 
expectation. 

b1230 
The 2501 program has been moved 
within the bureaucracy several times, 
and it has never been audited. I believe 
the committee should look carefully at 
this program again next year to make 
sure that eligible farmers and ranchers 
get the full benefit of this particular 
amendment. 
The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentlewoman 
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR). 
The amendment was agreed to. 
The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read. 

The Clerk read as follows: 

RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
For rental assistance agreements entered 
into or renewed pursuant to the authority 
under section 521(a)(2) or agreements entered 
into in lieu of debt forgiveness or payments 
for eligible households as authorized by section 
502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949, as 
amended, $583,400,000; and, in addition, such 
sums as may be necessary, as authorized by 
section 521(c) of the Act, to liquidate debt incurred 
prior to fiscal year 1992 to carry out 
the rental assistance program under section 
521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided, That of this 
amount, not more than $5,900,000 shall be 
available for debt forgiveness or payments 
for eligible households as authorized by section 
502(c)(5)(D) of the Act, and not to exceed 
$10,000 per project for advances to nonprofit 
organizations or public agencies to cover direct 
costs (other than purchase price) incurred 
in purchasing projects pursuant to 
section 502(c)(5)(C) of the Act: Provided further, 
That agreements entered into or renewed 
during fiscal year 2000 shall be funded 
for a five-year period, although the life of 
any such agreement may be extended to 
fully utilize amounts obligated. 
MUTUAL AND SELF-HELP HOUSING GRANTS 
For grants and contracts pursuant to section 
523(b)(1)(A) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 

U.S.C. 1490c), $28,000,000, to remain available 
until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b): Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated, 
$1,000,000 shall be for empowerment zones 
and enterprise communities, as authorized 
by Public Law 103–66, empowerment zones as 
authorized by Section 951 of the Taxpayer 
Relief Act of 1997 (Public Law 105–34), enterprise 
communities as authorized by Division 
A, Title VII, Section 766 of the Fiscal Year 
1999 Omnibus Appropriations Act (Public 
Law 105–277), and communities designated by 
the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic 
Area Partnership Zones: Provided further, 
That if such funds are not obligated for 
empowerment zones and enterprise communities 
by June 30, 2000, they shall remain 
available for other authorized purposes 
under this head. 
RURAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANTS 
For grants and contracts for housing for 
domestic farm labor, very low-income housing 
repair, supervisory and technical assistance, 
compensation for construction defects, 
and rural housing preservation made by the 
Rural Housing Service, as authorized by 42 
U.S.C. 1474, 1479(c), 1486, 1490e, and 1490m, 
$50,000,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $3,250,000 shall be for empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities, as 
authorized by Public Law 103–66, empowerment 
zones as authorized by Section 951 of 
the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 (Public Law 
105–34), enterprise communities as authorized 
by Division A, Title VII, Section 766 of 
the Fiscal Year 1999 Omnibus Appropriations 
Act (Public Law 105–277), and communities 
designated by the Secretary of Agriculture 
as Rural Economic Area Partnership Zones: 
Provided further, That if such funds are not 
obligated for empowerment zones and enterprise 
communities by June 30, 2000, they 
shall remain available for other authorized 
purposes under this head. 
SALARIES AND EXPENSES 
For necessary expenses of the Rural Housing 
Service, including administering the programs 
authorized by the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act, title V of the 
Housing Act of 1949, and cooperative agreements, 
$61,979,000: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 

2225), and not to exceed $520,000 may be used 
for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided 
further, That the Administrator may expend 
not more than $10,000 to provide modest non-
monetary awards to non-USDA employees. 

RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE 

RURAL DEVELOPMENT LOAN FUND PROGRAM 

ACCOUNT 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 
For the cost of direct loans, $22,799,000, as 
authorized by the Rural Development Loan 
Fund (42 U.S.C. 9812(a)): Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such 
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That these funds are available to 
subsidize gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans of $52,495,000: Provided 
further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$4,343,000 shall be available for the 
cost of direct loans for empowerment zones 
and enterprise communities, as authorized 
by Public Law 103–66, empowerment zones as 
authorized by Section 951 of the Taxpayer 
Relief Act of 1997 (Public Law 105–34), enterprise 
communities as authorized by Division 
A, Title VII, Section 766 of the Fiscal Year 
1999 Omnibus Appropriations Act (Public 
Law 105–277), and communities designated by 
the Secretary of Agriculture as Rural Economic 
Area Partnership Zones, to subsidize 
gross obligations for the principal amount of 
direct loans, $10,000,000: Provided further, 
That if such funds are not obligated for empowerment 
zones and enterprise communities 
by June 30, 2000, they shall remain 
available for other authorized purposes 
under this head. 
In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out the direct loan programs, $3,337,000 
shall be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative 
Service, Salaries and Expenses’’. 
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LOANS 
PROGRAM ACCOUNT 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 
For the principal amount of direct loans, 
as authorized under section 313 of the Rural 
Electrification Act, for the purpose of promoting 
rural economic development and job 
creation projects, $15,000,000. 
For the cost of direct loans, including the 
cost of modifying loans as defined in section 
502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
$3,453,000. 
Of the funds derived from interest on the 
cushion of credit payments in fiscal year 
2000, as authorized by section 313 of the 
Rural Electrification Act of 1936, $3,453,000 
shall not be obligated and $3,453,000 are re


scinded. 

RURAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT GRANTS 

For rural cooperative development grants 
authorized under section 310B(e) of the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1932), $6,000,000, of which $1,500,000 
shall be available for cooperative agreements 
for the appropriate technology transfer for 
rural areas program and $1,500,000 for cooperative 
research agreements. 

SALARIES AND EXPENSES 
For necessary expenses of the Rural Business-
Cooperative Service, including administering 
the programs authorized by the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act; 
section 1323 of the Food Security Act of 1985; 
the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926; for 
activities relating to the marketing aspects 
of cooperatives, including economic research 
findings, as authorized by the Agricultural 
Marketing Act of 1946; for activities with institutions 
concerning the development and 
operation of agricultural cooperatives; and 
for cooperative agreements; $24,612,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall be available 
for employment pursuant to the second 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3785 

sentence of section 706(a) of the Organic Act 
of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed 
$260,000 may be used for employment under 5 
U.S.C. 3109. 

RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE 

RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 

Insured loans pursuant to the authority of 
section 305 of the Rural Electrification Act 
of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935) shall be made as follows: 

percent rural electrification loans, 
$121,500,000; 5 percent rural telecommunications 
loans, $75,000,000; cost of money rural 
telecommunications loans, $300,000,000; municipal 
rate rural electric loans, $295,000,000; 
and loans made pursuant to section 306 of 
that Act, rural electric, $1,500,000,000 and 
rural telecommunications, $120,000,000, to remain 
available until expended. 

For the cost, as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, including 
the cost of modifying loans, of direct and 
guaranteed loans authorized by the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935 and 
936), as follows: cost of rural electric loans, 
$11,922,000, and the cost of telecommunications 
loans, $3,210,000: Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 305(d)(2) of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936, borrower interest 
rates may exceed 7 percent per year. 

In addition, for administrative expenses 
necessary to carry out the direct and guaranteed 
loan programs, $31,046,000, which shall 
be transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ‘‘Rural Utilities Service, Salaries 
and Expenses’’. 

RURAL TELEPHONE BANK PROGRAM ACCOUNT 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 

The Rural Telephone Bank is hereby authorized 
to make such expenditures, within 
the limits of funds available to such corporation 
in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard 
to fiscal year limitations as provided by section 
104 of the Government Corporation Control 
Act, as may be necessary in carrying out 
its authorized programs. During fiscal year 
2000 and within the resources and authority 
available, gross obligations for the principal 
amount of direct loans shall be $175,000,000. 

For the cost, as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, including 
the cost of modifying loans, of direct 
loans authorized by the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), $3,290,000. 

In addition, for administrative expenses 
necessary to carry out the loan programs, 
$3,000,000, which shall be transferred to and 
merged with the appropriation for ‘‘Rural 
Utilities Service, Salaries and Expenses’’. 

DISTANCE LEARNING AND TELEMEDICINE 
PROGRAM 

For the cost of direct loans and grants, as 
authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., 
$16,700,000, to remain available until expended, 
to be available for loans and grants 
for telemedicine and distance learning services 
in rural areas: Provided, That the costs 
of direct loans shall be as defined in section 
502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. 

SALARIES AND EXPENSES 

For necessary expenses of the Rural Utilities 
Service, including administering the 
programs authorized by the Rural Electrification 
Act of 1936, and the Consolidated 
Farm and Rural Development Act, and for 
cooperative agreements, $34,107,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall be available for 
employment pursuant to the second sentence 
of section 706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 

U.S.C. 2225), and not to exceed $105,000 may 
be used for employment under 5 U.S.C. 3109. 
TITLE IV 

DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS 

OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD, 

NUTRITION AND CONSUMER SERVICES 
For necessary salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition 
and Consumer Services to administer 
the laws enacted by the Congress for the 
Food and Nutrition Service, $554,000. 
FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE 
CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 
For necessary expenses to carry out the 
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et 
seq.), except section 21, and the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except 
sections 17 and 21; $9,547,028,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2001, of 
which $4,611,829,000 is hereby appropriated 
and $4,935,199,000 shall be derived by transfer 
from funds available under section 32 of the 
Act of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c): Provided, 
That none of the funds made available 
under this heading shall be used for studies 
and evaluations: Provided further, That up to 
$4,363,000 shall be available for independent 
verification of school food service claims: 
Provided further, That none of the funds 
under this heading shall be available unless 
the value of bonus commodities provided 
under section 32 of the Act of August 24, 1935 
(49 Stat. 774, chapter 641; 7 U.S.C. 612c), and 
section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 

U.S.C. 1431) is included in meeting the minimum 
commodity assistance requirement of 
section 6(g) of the National School Lunch 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(g)). 
SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM 
FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN (WIC) 

For necessary expenses to carry out the 
special supplemental nutrition program as 
authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $4,005,000,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 
2001: Provided, That none of the funds made 
available under this heading shall be used for 
studies and evaluations: Provided further, 
That of the total amount available, the Secretary 
shall obligate $10,000,000 for the farmers’ 
market nutrition program within 45 
days of the enactment of this Act, and an additional 
$5,000,000 for the farmers’ market 
nutrition program from any funds not needed 
to maintain current caseload levels: Provided 
further, That none of the funds in this 
Act shall be available to pay administrative 
expenses of WIC clinics except those that 
have an announced policy of prohibiting 
smoking within the space used to carry out 
the program: Provided further, That none of 
the funds provided in this account shall be 
available for the purchase of infant formula 
except in accordance with the cost containment 
and competitive bidding requirements 
specified in section 17 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966. 

FOOD STAMP PROGRAM 
For necessary expenses to carry out the 
Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), 
$21,577,444,000, of which $100,000,000 shall be 
placed in reserve for use only in such 
amounts and at such times as may become 
necessary to carry out program operations: 
Provided, That none of the funds made available 
under this head shall be used for studies 
and evaluations: Provided further, That funds 
provided herein shall be expended in accordance 
with section 16 of the Food Stamp Act: 
Provided further, That this appropriation 
shall be subject to any work registration or 
workfare requirements as may be required 
by law: Provided further, That funds made 
available for Employment and Training 
under this head shall remain available until 
expended, as authorized by section 16(h)(1) of 
the Food Stamp Act. 

COMMODITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 

For necessary expenses to carry out the 
commodity supplemental food program as 
authorized by section 4(a) of the Agriculture 
and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 

U.S.C. 612c note) and the Emergency Food 
Assistance Act of 1983, $141,000,000, to remain 
available through September 30, 2001: Provided, 
That none of these funds shall be 
available to reimburse the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for commodities donated to 
the program. 
FOOD DONATIONS PROGRAMS 

For necessary expenses to carry out section 
4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer 
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); 
special assistance for the nuclear affected islands 
as authorized by section 103(h)(2) of the 
Compacts of Free Association Act of 1985, as 
amended; and section 311 of the Older Americans 
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030a), $141,081,000, 
to remain available through September 30, 
2001. 

FOOD PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION 

For necessary administrative expenses of 
the domestic food programs funded under 
this Act, $108,561,000, of which $5,000,000 shall 
be available only for simplifying procedures, 
reducing overhead costs, tightening regulations, 
improving food stamp coupon handling, 
and assistance in the prevention, identification, 
and prosecution of fraud and other 
violations of law: Provided, That this appropriation 
shall be available for employment 
pursuant to the second sentence of section 
706(a) of the Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 
2225), and not to exceed $150,000 shall be 
available for employment under 5 U.S.C. 
3109. 

TITLE V 

FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED 

PROGRAMS 

FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE AND 

GENERAL SALES MANAGER 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 

For necessary expenses of the Foreign Agricultural 
Service, including carrying out 
title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954 (7 

U.S.C. 1761–1768), market development activities 
abroad, and for enabling the Secretary 
to coordinate and integrate activities of the 
Department in connection with foreign agricultural 
work, including not to exceed 
$128,000 for representation allowances and for 
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act approved 
August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), 
$137,768,000: Provided, That the Service may 
utilize advances of funds, or reimburse this 
appropriation for expenditures made on behalf 
of Federal agencies, public and private 
organizations and institutions under agreements 
executed pursuant to the agricultural 
food production assistance programs (7 
U.S.C. 1736) and the foreign assistance programs 
of the United States Agency for International 
Development. 
None of the funds in the foregoing paragraph 
shall be available to promote the sale 
or export of tobacco or tobacco products. 

PUBLIC LAW 480 PROGRAM ACCOUNT 
For the cost, as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of Public 
Law 83–480 title I credit agreements, including 
the cost of modifying credit arrangements 
under said Act, $165,400,000, to remain 
available until expended. 
In addition, for administrative expenses to 
carry out such title I credit program, and 
the Food for Progress Act of 1985, as amended, 
to the extent funds appropriated for Public 
Law 83–480 are utilized, $1,938,000, of 
which not to exceed $1,093,000 may be transferred 
to and merged with ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’, 
Foreign Agricultural Service, and of 


H3786 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

which not to exceed $845,000 may be transferred 
to and merged with ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’, 
Farm Service Agency (7 U.S.C. 1691, 
1701–04, 1731–36g–3, 2209b). 

PUBLIC LAW 480 TITLE I OCEAN FREIGHT 
DIFFERENTIAL GRANTS 

For expenses during the current fiscal 
year, not otherwise recoverable, and unrecovered 
prior years’ costs, including interest 
thereon under the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954, as 
amended, $14,000,000, to remain available 
until expended for ocean freight differential 
costs for the shipment of agricultural commodities 
pursuant to title I of said Act, including 
Food for Progress programs as authorized 
by the Food for Progress Act of 1985, 
as amended: Provided, That funds made 
available for the cost of title I agreements 
and for title I ocean freight differential may 
be used interchangeably between the two accounts 
(7 U.S.C. 1701b, 2209b). 

PUBLIC LAW 480 GRANTS—TITLES II AND III 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 

For expenses during the current fiscal 
year, not otherwise recoverable, and unrecovered 
prior years’ costs, including interest 
thereon, under the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954, as 
amended, $837,000,000 for commodities supplied 
in connection with dispositions abroad 
pursuant to title II of said Act: Provided, 
That sums made available to carry out title 
II or title III of said Act shall remain available 
until September 30, 2003 (7 U.S.C. 1691, 
1721–26a, 1727–27e, 1731–36g–3, 1737, 2209b). 

Of the funds made available by this Act to 
carry out the Agricultural Trade Development 
and Assistance Act of 1954, not to exceed 
15 percent of the funds made available 
to carry out any title of said Act may be 
used to carry out any other title of said Act. 

COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION EXPORT 
LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT 

(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) 

For administrative expenses to carry out 
the Commodity Credit Corporation’s export 
guarantee program, GSM 102 and GSM 103, 
$4,085,000; to cover common overhead expenses 
as permitted by section 11 of the Commodity 
Credit Corporation Charter Act and 
in conformity with the Federal Credit Reform 
Act of 1990, of which $3,413,000 may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriation 
for ‘‘Foreign Agricultural Service 
and General Sales Manager’’ and $672,000 
may be transferred to and merged with the 
appropriation for ‘‘Farm Service Agency, 
Salaries and Expenses’’. 

TITLE VI 

FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION AND 

RELATED AGENCIES 

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN 

SERVICES 

FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION 

SALARIES AND EXPENSES 

For necessary expenses of the Food and 
Drug Administration, including hire and purchase 
of passenger motor vehicles; for payment 
of space rental and related costs pursuant 
to Public Law 92–313 for programs and 
activities of the Food and Drug Administration 
which are included in this Act; for rental 
of special purpose space in the District of 
Columbia or elsewhere; and for miscellaneous 
and emergency expenses of enforcement 
activities, authorized and approved by 
the Secretary and to be accounted for solely 
on the Secretary’s certificate, not to exceed 
$25,000; $1,218,384,000, of which not to exceed 
$145,434,000 in prescription drug user fees authorized 
by 21 U.S.C. 379(h) may be credited 
to this appropriation and remain available 
until expended: Provided, That no more than 

$100,180,000 shall be for payments to the General 
Services Administration for rent and related 
costs. 

In addition, mammography user fees authorized 
by 42 U.S.C. 263(b) may be credited 
to this account, to remain available until expended. 


In addition, export certification user fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381 may be credited 
to this account, to remain available until expended. 


BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES 
For plans, construction, repair, improvement, 
extension, alteration, and purchase of 
fixed equipment or facilities of or used by 
the Food and Drug Administration, where 
not otherwise provided, $31,750,000, to remain 
available until expended (7 U.S.C. 2209b). 

INDEPENDENT AGENCIES 

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION 

For necessary expenses to carry out the 
provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act 
(7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; the 
rental of space (to include multiple year 
leases) in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; 
and not to exceed $25,000 for employment 
under 5 U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000, including 
not to exceed $2,000 for official reception 
and representation expenses: Provided, That 
the Commission is authorized to charge reasonable 
fees to attendees of Commission 
sponsored educational events and symposia 
to cover the Commission’s costs of providing 
those events and symposia, and notwithstanding 
31 U.S.C. 3302, said fees shall be 
credited to this account, to be available 
without further appropriation. 

FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION 

LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 

Not to exceed $35,800,000 (from assessments 
collected from farm credit institutions and 
from the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation) 
shall be obligated during the current 
fiscal year for administrative expenses 
as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249: Provided, 
That this limitation shall not apply to expenses 
associated with receiverships. 

TITLE VII—GENERAL PROVISIONS 
SEC. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed 
by law, appropriations and authorizations 
made for the Department of Agriculture for 
the fiscal year 2000 under this Act shall be 
available for the purchase, in addition to 
those specifically provided for, of not to exceed 
365 passenger motor vehicles, of which 
361 shall be for replacement only, and for the 
hire of such vehicles. 
SEC. 702. Funds in this Act available to the 
Department of Agriculture shall be available 
for uniforms or allowances therefor as authorized 
by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–5902). 
Mr. WISE. Mr. Chairman, I move to 
strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, it is not to offer an 
amendment. I just want to assure the 
chairman and ranking member there 
was a statement I wanted to make very 
briefly concerning the Food and Drug 
Administration Modernization Act 
which was a significant reform allowing 
for the expedited approval of food 
contract substances principally used in 
plastic, paper and aluminum food packaging, 
and under this innovative program 
approvals which currently take 
unto 6 years can be accomplished in as 
little as 120 days while still assuring 
the safety of these materials. Employers 
in my district would benefit from 
this program which would speed the introduction 
of new packaging materials 
and new uses for existing ones. 

I appreciate the committee’s statement 
recognizing the value of this regulatory 
reform, but I am concerned 
that the necessary funds have yet to be 
appropriated since both the committee 
and the administration are counting on 
the authorization of user fees. Although 
the industries benefiting from 
this program are willing to support 
reasonable use of fees, an authorization 
by Congress this year is not guaranteed. 
In fact, as of today no fee authorization 
bill has been introduced much 
less discussed in any detail. 

I just wanted to point this out and I 
say it would be a shame if this innovative 
new program were to fall between 
the cracks, and as this bill moves 
along, in the process I would hope that 
the chairman and ranking member 
would work to assure that at least the 
authorized levels of funding could be 
made available in the event that a fee 
system cannot be enacted in time for 
Fiscal Year 2000. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read. 

The Clerk read as follows: 

SEC. 703. Not less than $1,500,000 of the appropriations 
of the Department of Agriculture 
in this Act for research and service 
work authorized by the Acts of August 14, 
1946, and July 28, 1954 (7 U.S.C. 427 and 1621– 
1629), and by chapter 63 of title 31, United 
States Code, shall be available for contracting 
in accordance with said Acts and 
chapter. 

SEC. 704. The cumulative total of transfers 
to the Working Capital Fund for the purpose 
of accumulating growth capital for data 
services and National Finance Center operations 
shall not exceed $2,000,000: Provided, 
That no funds in this Act appropriated to an 
agency of the Department shall be transferred 
to the Working Capital Fund without 
the approval of the agency administrator. 

SEC. 705. New obligational authority provided 
for the following appropriation items 
in this Act shall remain available until expended 
(7 U.S.C. 2209b): Animal and Plant 
Health Inspection Service, the contingency 
fund to meet emergency conditions, fruit fly 
program, integrated systems acquisition 
project, boll weevil program, up to 10 percent 
of the screwworm program, and up to 
$2,000,000 for costs associated with collocating 
regional offices; Farm Service Agency, 
salaries and expenses funds made available 
to county committees; and Foreign Agricultural 
Service, middle-income country 
training program. 

New obligational authority for the Food 
Safety and Inspection Service, field automation 
and information management project; 
funds appropriated for rental payments; 
funds for the Native American Institutions 
Endowment Fund in the Cooperative State 
Research, Education, and Extension Service; 
and funds for the competitive research 
grants (7 U.S.C. 450i(b)), shall remain available 
until expended. 

SEC. 706. No part of any appropriation contained 
in this Act shall remain available for 
obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein. 

SEC. 707. Not to exceed $50,000 of the appropriations 
available to the Department of Agriculture 
in this Act shall be available to 
provide appropriate orientation and language 
training pursuant to Public Law 94– 
449. 

SEC. 708. No funds appropriated by this Act 
may be used to pay negotiated indirect cost 
rates on cooperative agreements or similar 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3787 

arrangements between the United States Department 
of Agriculture and nonprofit institutions 
in excess of 10 percent of the total direct 
cost of the agreement when the purpose 
of such cooperative arrangements is to carry 
out programs of mutual interest between the 
two parties. This does not preclude appropriate 
payment of indirect costs on grants 
and contracts with such institutions when 
such indirect costs are computed on a similar 
basis for all agencies for which appropriations 
are provided in this Act. 

SEC. 709. Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this Act, commodities acquired by 
the Department in connection with Commodity 
Credit Corporation and section 32 
price support operations may be used, as authorized 
by law (15 U.S.C. 714c and 7 U.S.C. 
612c), to provide commodities to individuals 
in cases of hardship as determined by the 
Secretary of Agriculture. 

SEC. 710. None of the funds in this Act shall 
be available to restrict the authority of the 
Commodity Credit Corporation to lease 
space for its own use or to lease space on behalf 
of other agencies of the Department of 
Agriculture when such space will be jointly 
occupied. 

SEC. 711. None of the funds in this Act shall 
be available to pay indirect costs charged 
against agricultural research, education, or 
extension grant awards issued by the Cooperative 
State Research, Education, and Extension 
Service that exceed 19 percent of total 
Federal funds provided under each award: 
Provided, That notwithstanding section 1462 
of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, 
and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 

U.S.C. 3310), funds provided by this Act for 
grants awarded competitively by the Cooperative 
State Research, Education, and Extension 
Service shall be available to pay full allowable 
indirect costs for each grant awarded 
under the Small Business Innovation Development 
Act of 1982, Public Law 97–219 (15 
U.S.C. 638). 
SEC. 712. Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this Act, all loan levels provided in 
this Act shall be considered estimates, not 
limitations. 

SEC. 713. Appropriations for the Rural 
Housing Insurance Fund Program Account 
for the cost of direct and guaranteed loans 
made available in fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 
1997, 1998, and 1999 shall remain available 
until expended to cover obligations made in 
each of those fiscal years respectively in accordance 
with 31 U.S.C. 1557. 

SEC. 714. Appropriations to the Department 
of Agriculture for the cost of direct and 
guaranteed loans made available in fiscal 
year 2000 shall remain available until expended 
to cover obligations made in fiscal 
year 2000 for the following accounts: the 
rural development loan fund program account; 
the Rural Telephone Bank program 
account; the rural electrification and telecommunications 
loans program account; the 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program Account; 
and the rural economic development 
loans program account. 

SEC. 715. Such sums as may be necessary 
for fiscal year 2000 pay raises for programs 
funded by this Act shall be absorbed within 
the levels appropriated by this Act. 

SEC. 716. Notwithstanding the Federal 
Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act, marketing 
services of the Agricultural Marketing 
Service; Grain Inspection, Packers 
and Stockyards Administration; the Animal 
and Plant Health Inspection Service; and the 
food safety activities of the Food Safety and 
Inspection Service may use cooperative 
agreements to reflect a relationship between 
the Agricultural Marketing Service, the 
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards 
Administration, the Animal and Plant 
Health Inspection Service, or the Food Safe


ty and Inspection Service and a State or Cooperator 
to carry out agricultural marketing 
programs, to carry out programs to protect 
the Nation’s animal and plant resources, or 
to carry out educational programs or special 
studies to improve the safety of the Nation’s 
food supply. 

SEC. 717. Notwithstanding the Federal 
Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act, the 
Natural Resources Conservation Service may 
enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative 
agreements with a State agency or subdivision, 
or a public or private organization, for 
the acquisition of goods or services, including 
personal services, to carry out natural 
resources conservation activities: Provided, 
That Commodity Credit Corporation funds 
obligated for such purposes shall not exceed 
the level obligated by the Commodity Credit 
Corporation for such purposes in fiscal year 
1998. 

SEC. 718. None of the funds in this Act may 
be used to retire more than 5 percent of the 
Class A stock of the Rural Telephone Bank 
or to maintain any account or subaccount 
within the accounting records of the Rural 
Telephone Bank the creation of which has 
not specifically been authorized by statute: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, none of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available in this 
Act may be used to transfer to the Treasury 
or to the Federal Financing Bank any unobligated 
balance of the Rural Telephone Bank 
telephone liquidating account which is in excess 
of current requirements and such balance 
shall receive interest as set forth for financial 
accounts in section 505(c) of the Federal 
Credit Reform Act of 1990. 

SEC. 719. Of the funds made available by 
this Act, not more than $1,800,000 shall be 
used to cover necessary expenses of activities 
related to all advisory committees, panels, 
commissions, and task forces of the Department 
of Agriculture, except for panels 
used to comply with negotiated rule makings 
and panels used to evaluate competitively 
awarded grants: Provided, That interagency 
funding is authorized to carry out the purposes 
of the National Drought Policy Commission. 


SEC. 720. None of the funds appropriated in 
this Act may be used to carry out the provisions 
of section 918 of Public Law 104–127, the 
Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform 
Act. 

SEC. 721. No employee of the Department of 
Agriculture may be detailed or assigned 
from an agency or office funded by this Act 
to any other agency or office of the Department 
for more than 30 days unless the individual’s 
employing agency or office is fully 
reimbursed by the receiving agency or office 
for the salary and expenses of the employee 
for the period of assignment. 

SEC. 722. None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department 
of Agriculture shall be used to transmit or 
otherwise make available to any non-Department 
of Agriculture employee questions or 
responses to questions that are a result of information 
requested for the appropriations 
hearing process. 

SEC. 723. None of the funds made available 
to the Department of Agriculture by this Act 
may be used to acquire new information 
technology systems or significant upgrades, 
as determined by the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, without the approval of 
the Chief Information Officer and the concurrence 
of the Executive Information Technology 
Investment Review Board: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this Act may be 
transferred to the Office of the Chief Information 
Officer without the prior approval of 
the Committee on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress. 

SEC. 724. (a) None of the funds provided by 
this Act, or provided by previous Appropriations 
Acts to the agencies funded by this Act 
that remain available for obligation or expenditure 
in fiscal year 2000, or provided 
from any accounts in the Treasury of the 
United States derived by the collection of 
fees available to the agencies funded by this 
Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds 
which: (1) creates new programs; (2) eliminates 
a program, project, or activity; (3) increases 
funds or personnel by any means for 
any project or activity for which funds have 
been denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office 
or employees; (5) reorganizes offices, 
programs, or activities; or (6) contracts out 
or privatizes any functions or activities presently 
performed by Federal employees; unless 
the Committee on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress are notified fifteen 
days in advance of such reprogramming of 
funds. 

(b) None of the funds provided by this Act, 
or provided by previous Appropriations Acts 
to the agencies funded by this Act that remain 
available for obligation or expenditure 
in fiscal year 2000, or provided from any accounts 
in the Treasury of the United States 
derived by the collection of fees available to 
the agencies funded by this Act, shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure for 
activities, programs, or projects through a 
reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 
or 10 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments 
existing programs, projects, or activities; 
(2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any 
existing program, project, or activity, or 
numbers of personnel by 10 percent as approved 
by Congress; or (3) results from any 
general savings from a reduction in personnel 
which would result in a change in existing 
programs, activities, or projects as approved 
by Congress; unless the Committee on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
are notified fifteen days in advance of such 
reprogramming of funds. 
SEC. 725. None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act or any 
other Act may be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out the 
Fund for Rural America Program, authorized 
by section 793 of Public Law 104–127, with the 
exception of funds made available under that 
section on January 1, 1997. 

SEC. 726. None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act shall 
be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel who carry out an environmental 
quality incentives program authorized by 
sections 334–341 of Public Law 104–127 in excess 
of $174,000,000. 

SEC. 727. None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise available to the Department of Agriculture 
may be used to administer the provision 
of contract payments to a producer 
under the Agricultural Market Transition 
Act (7 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.) for contract acreage 
on which wild rice is planted unless the 
contract payment is reduced by an acre for 
each contract acre planted to wild rice. 

SEC. 728. None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act shall 
be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to enroll in excess of 120,000 acres 
in the fiscal year 2000 wetlands reserve program 
as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 3837. 

SEC. 729. None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this or any 
other Act shall be used to pay the salaries 
and expenses of personnel to carry out the 
provisions of section 401 of Public Law 105– 
185, the Initiative for Future Agriculture and 
Food Systems. 

SEC. 730. Notwithstanding section 381A of 
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development 
Act (7 U.S.C. 2009), the definitions of 
rural areas for certain business programs administered 
by the Rural Business-Cooperative 
Service and the community facilities 


H3788 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

programs administered by the Rural Housing make sure and put on the record that eign meat imported into this country 
Service shall be those provided for in statute 

there may be some remaining amend-adhere to the same rigorous standards

and regulations prior to the enactment of 

ments. that our livestock producers here at

Public Law 104–127. 

Mr. Chairman, I see the gentlewoman home must meet?

SEC. 731. None of the funds appropriated or 

from Florida (Mrs. MEEK) is rising to Last year we know the Department, I

otherwise made available by this Act shall 
be used to carry out any commodity pur-her feet here, and there may be some think the gentlewoman referenced, alchase 
program that would prohibit eligi-other Members who were not aware lowed $3 billion, with a B, pounds of 
bility or participation by farmer-owned co-until just a few moments ago that this meat and poultry to be imported from 

operatives. 

SEC. 732. None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act shall 
be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to carry out a conservation farm 
option program, as authorized by section 335 
of Public Law 104–127. 

SEC. 733. None of the funds appropriated by 
this Act or any other Act shall be used to 
pay the salaries and expenses of personnel 
who prepare or submit appropriations language 
as part of the President’s Budget submission 
to the Congress of the United States 
for programs under the jurisdiction of the 
Appropriations Subcommittees on Agriculture, 
Rural Development, and Related 
Agencies that assumes revenues or reflects a 
reduction from the previous year due to user 
fees proposals that have not been enacted 
into law prior to the submission of the Budget 
unless such Budget submission identifies 
which additional spending reductions should 
occur in the event the user fees proposals are 
not enacted prior to the date of the convening 
of a committee of conference for the 
fiscal year 2001 appropriations Act. 

SEC. 734. None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act shall 
be used to establish an Office of Community 
Food Security or any similar office within 
the United States Department of Agriculture 
without the prior approval of the Committee 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress. 


SEC. 735. None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this or any 
other Act may be used to carry out the provisions 
of section 612 of Public Law 105–185, 
the National Swine Research Center. 

SEC. 736. (a) None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act shall 
be used to pay the salaries and expenses of 
personnel to carry out the emergency food 
assistance program authorized by section 
27(a) of the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)) 
if such program exceeds $99,000,000. 

(b) In addition to amounts otherwise appropriated 
or made available by this Act, 
$1,000,000 is appropriated for the purpose of 
providing Bill Emerson and Mickey Leland 
Hunger Fellowships through the Congressional 
Hunger Center, which is an organization 
described in subsection (c)(3) of section 
501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and 
is exempt from taxation under subsection (a) 
of such section. 
SEC. 737. None of the funds appropriated by 
this Act shall be used to propose or issue 
rules, regulations, decrees, or orders for the 
purpose of implementation, or in preparation 
for implementation of the Kyoto Protocol 
which was adopted on December 11, 1997, in 
Kyoto, Japan. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I move 
to strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to inform 
the membership this bill has been 
moving at record speeds today, and I 
want to express my personal appreciation 
to the majority for avoiding the 
kind of difficulty we faced on the floor 
the week before last on this bill. We 
have several Members that had wanted 
to offer amendments to the bill, and I 
think some of them did not anticipate 
it would have moved as swiftly as it 
has this afternoon, and I just wanted to 

bill would be on the floor and moving 
as expeditiously as it has today. 

b1245 
So I just wanted to reemphasize that 
point and give our Members an opportunity 
to come to the floor. We have 
attempted to call their offices and so 
forth. 

AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MRS. MEEK OF 
FLORIDA 

Mrs. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
I offer an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Amendment No. 7 offered by Mrs. MEEK of 
Florida: 

Add before the short title the following 
new section: 

SEC. ll. After March 1, 2000, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise available by 
this Act may be used by the Secretary of 
Agriculture— 

(1) to permit the importation of meat or 
meat food products under subsections (a) and 
(f) of section 20 of the Federal Meat Inspection 
Act (21 U.S.C. 620) from any foreign 
country in violation of subsection (f) of such 
section; and 
(2) to permit the importation of poultry or 
poultry products under subsection (a) of section 
17 of the Poultry Products Inspection 
Act (21 U.S.C. 466) from any foreign country 
in violation of subsection (d) of such section. 
Mrs. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
my amendment helps to protect 
United States consumers from unsafe 
foreign meat and poultry. What it does, 
it ensures fairness to protect our meat 
and our poultry products from unfair 
competition and it directs the United 
States Department of Agriculture to 
influence our current food safety laws. 

What this amendment does is necessarily 
ensures that USDA will follow 
and enforce its laws. What it does is it 
will cut off funds for them for permitting 
the import of meat and poultry 
from any foreign country unless USDA 
determines that the inspection system 
of that foreign country is equivalent 
and actually provides a level of safety 
equivalent to what we require of the 
meat and poultry people in this country. 


We want to be sure that that equivalency 
is established. If it is not, this 
amendment would certainly cut off 
funds to that foreign country. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
support of the amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, I want to rise in 
strong support of the gentlewoman’s 
amendment and her efforts to protect 
our consumers. Without question, food 
safety has to be a number one priority 
and responsibility of this committee. 
The National Cattlemen’s Beef Association 
has been promoting this for a 
number of years. Why should not for


32 foreign countries on to our shores. 
This amendment simply requires USDA 
to enforce our food safety laws and protect 
our consumers. 

I just want to make sure that the letter 
from the National Cattlemen’s Beef 
Association is entered into the RECORD 
as part of this amendment, and I rise in 
strong support of the gentlewoman’s 
amendment. 

NATIONAL CATTLEMEN’S 
BEEF ASSOCIATION, 

Washington, DC, May 24, 1999. 

Hon. CARRIE P. MEEK, 

House of Representatives, Cannon House Office 
Building, Washington, DC. 

DEAR REP. MEEK: On behalf of the members 
of the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association 
(NCBA), I wanted to inform you that NCBA 
supports the language on inspection equivalency 
you plan to offer to the FY 2000 House 
Agriculture Appropriations measure. We appreciate 
your staff reviewing the proposed 
amendment with us. 

NCBA strongly supports measures that 
work, through sound science, to ensure the 
safety and wholesomeness of the U.S. food 
supply. In addition, we are constantly engaged 
in trade discussions and disputes with 
other countries who use the ‘‘equivalency’’ 
issue as a barrier to U.S. beef and other livestock 
products. Your proposed amendment 
certainly would reiterate the Secretary of 
Agriculture’s important role in making sure 
that any beef, other meat, or poultry products 
imported into the United States adhere 
to the same rigorous standards that America’s 
cattlemen and women, and other livestock 
producers meet. 

Thank you for your leadership on this matter. 
We look forward to its successful inclusion 
in the Agriculture Appropriations package. 
Please let us know if we can be of assistance 
in this effort. 

Sincerely, 

DALE W. MOORE, 

Executive Director, 
Legislative Affairs. 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, I move to 
strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, we have sent this 
amendment in its earlier version to the 
USDA but received no formal comment. 
We have been told that the administrator 
of the Food Safety Inspection 
Service has concerns about the 
amendment, but we do not know what 
those concerns are at this time. I think 
we can all agree with the heart of the 
amendment, that imported food ought 
to meet the same standard as the domestic 
products. There are important 
trade and food safety considerations 
here, and I would have liked some time 
to hear from the administration. 

Nevertheless, I am prepared to support 
the gentlewoman’s amendment, 
with the understanding that we will 
need to work together before the conference 
to give the administration an 
opportunity to be involved. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I move 
to strike the requisite number of 
words. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3789 

Mr. Chairman, I want to go on record 
as supporting this amendment. As a 
physician and as a Member of Congress 
from a cattle and farm State, to me it 
is unconscionable that we can produce 
cattle and butcher it in the State of 
Oklahoma and ship it to Kansas under 
great quality standards, but, at the 
same time, meat produced outside of 
this country can come anywhere in 
this country and not meet those same 
standards. 

I would like to say, as a Member of 
Congress from a cattle producing 
State, that this not only makes sense 
from a standpoint of food safety, but 
also is eminently fair to our cattle producers 
and our consumers. This will 
not raise the cost. What it will do is assure 
that the American consumer is 
getting what they paid for. The imported 
goods coming into this country 
ought to have to meet the same standard 
as the provider of goods in this 
country domestically produced. So I 
support the amendment. 

Mr. TRAFICANT. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

Mr. Chairman, I want to echo those 
comments and I want to support very 
strongly the amendment offered by the 
gentlewoman from Florida. Her efforts 
in this regard will not only help with 
the safety standards, but, keep in 
mind, in the last several years, where 
we used to inspect trucks coming 
across Mexico and Canada, now you 
have trucks coming from Canada with 
Australian ground beef that is not even 
being inspected on some occasions. 

Now, yes, this may pose some hardship 
on our regulatory system, but it is 
very much overdue and there is a tremendous 
economic factor involved here 
as well. 

Our farmers have sold hogs at 7 cents 
a pound live weight. My God, the one 
thing we can do is ensure that the 
same hoops and hurdles our farmers 
have to overcome shall be the world’s 
hurdles and hoops as well to ensure 
safety and quality and standardization 
of product. 

So I want to compliment the distinguished 
gentlewoman. It is a great 
amendment and I support the amendment. 


Mrs. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
I ask unanimous consent to 
strike the requisite number of words. 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentlewoman 
from Florida? 

There was no objection. 

Mrs. MEEK of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
I just wanted to say if anyone has 
ever suffered from salmonella from eating 
unsafe meat and poultry, they 
would understand the significance of 
this amendment. Why should our consumers 
be subjected to this very ill-
ness-causing disease and have these 
foreign countries being able to bring in 
meats and poultry without an equivalent 
kind of thing? 

In speaking to the USDA, the USDA 
cannot clearly speak to this amend


ment because they do not have any 
facts, any substantive facts, that will 
prove that what they are accepting is 
equivalent, because last year, the last 
time, it looks as if USDA is not really 
enforcing the congressional directive, 
and we need this tough new inspection 
system, and it is a key part of it, to 
take these samples of meet. 

In closing, I want to thank the Congress, 
because this is a very, very essential 
matter to the health and welfare 
of our Nation. 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentlewoman 
from Florida (Mrs. MEEK). 

The amendment was agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 16 OFFERED BY MR. TRAFICANT 

Mr. TRAFICANT. Mr. Chairman, I 
offer an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Amendment No. 16 offered by Mr. TRAFICANT: 


SEC. ll. None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available by this Act may 
be expended by an entity unless the entity 
agrees that in expending the assistance the 
entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 
of the Act of March 8, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a–10c; 
popularly known as the ‘‘Buy American 
Act’’). 

SEC. ll. (a) PURCHASE OF AMERICAN-MADE 
EQUIPMENT AND PRODUCTS.—In the case of 
any equipment or products that may be purchased 
using financial assistance provided 
using funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act, it is the sense of the 
Congress that entities receiving such assistance 
should, in expending the assistance, 
purchase only American-made equipment 
and products. 

(b) NOTICE TO RECIPIENTS OF ASSISTANCE.— 
In providing financial assistance using funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act, the Federal agency providing the 
assistance shall provide to each recipient of 
the assistance a notice describing the statement 
made in subsection (a) by the Congress. 
SEC. ll. If it has been finally determined 
by a court or Federal agency that any person 
intentionally affixed a label bearing a ‘‘Made 
in America’’ inscription, or any inscription 
with the same meaning, to any product sold 
in or shipped to the United States that is not 
made in the United States, such person shall 
be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract 
made with funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and 
inelibility procedures described in section 

9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations. 
Mr. TRAFICANT. Mr. Chairman, this 
deals with the ‘‘Buy American’’ provision 
that says in the case of any equipment 
or products that may be purchased 
using any financial assistance 
under this bill, it is the sense of our 
Congress that those receiving such assistance 
should purchase American-
made goods. It gives a notice to that 
effect. Most importantly, this provision 
also states in its final section that 
if it is determined by a court or Federal 
agency that any person has intentionally 
affixed a label bearing a 
‘‘Made in America’’ inscription, or any 
inscription connoting the same meaning, 
to any product sold in or shipped 

to the United States that is actually 
not made in the United States, those 
people shall be ineligible to receive any 
contract, award or subcontract that is 
made available by this act. The bottom 
line, if you are saying it is made in 
America, it better be. 

Finally, when we are going to spend 
hard-earned tax dollars of farmers that 
are getting hit from all ends, we should 
try and buy American-made goods. 
That just makes good sense. 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
support of the amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, we thought so much 
of the gentleman’s amendment that we 
made it permanent law 2 years ago. I 
am happy to accommodate the gentleman 
and put this item in the fiscal 
year 2000 bill as well. 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. TRAFICANT). 

The amendment was agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. DEFAZIO 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Chairman, I offer 
an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Amendment No. 5 offered by Mr. 
DEFAZIO: 

Insert before the short title the following 
new section: 

SEC. ll. (a) LIMITATION.—None of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this Act for Wildlife Services Program 
operations to carry out the first section 
of the Act of March 2, 1931 (7 U.S.C. 426), 
may be used to conduct campaigns for the 
destruction of wild animals for the purpose 
of protecting livestock. 

(b) CORRESPONDING REDUCTION IN FUNDS.— 
The amount otherwise provided by this Act 
for salaries and expenses under the heading 
‘‘ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION 
SERVICE’’ is hereby reduced by $7,000,000. 
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Chairman, this is 
an issue which the House is revisiting 
for the second year in a row. Last year 
there was a lot of confusion around 
this vote. I tried to make it much more 
explicit and simple this year. 

This amendment cuts funds only for 
lethal predator control to protect private 
livestock on private or leased land 
in the western United States. That is 
what this does. 

Now, we are going to hear that actually 
this amendment will cause brown 
tree snakes to invade Hawaii, it will 
cause tuberculosis to spread in the 
northern Midwest, it will cause plague 
in the Southwest, it will cause planes 
at National Airport to crash. 

No. In fact, all of those other activities 
would be enhanced, more money 
would be spent on those activities, if 
animal damage control, wildlife services, 
dropped their obsession with this 
failing environmentally and biologically 
unsound wasteful subsidy of 
spending $10 million, and this does not 
even cut every penny they are spending 
on lethal predator control in the western 
United States, if they just dropped 
their obsession and the subsidy. 

I also offer that the ranchers would 
come out ahead. Nothing in this 


H3790 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

amendment would prohibit a rancher 
from controlling predators that are 
problems on their own property, owned 
or leased. They could go out and do it 
themselves. They could hire someone 
to do it. In some cases States would 
still unwisely provide subsidies to 
these private ranchers. But the question 
is, should Federal taxpayers pay 
for predator control services on private 
ranches for profit in the western 
United States? 

If you have, as my mother did, a raccoon 
down the chimney, you cannot 
call a Federal Wildlife Services employee 
and ask them to remove the raccoon. 
If you have termites in your 
house, no one from the Federal Government 
is going to show up. They will 
laugh at you and tell you to call a pest 
control company. 

So why, why is it that ranchers, private 
ranchers in the West, can call up 
a Federal agency and get a Federal employee 
out there pronto, who will not 
only kill problem predators, which the 
ranchers could do on their own or hire 
someone on their own to do, but will 
indiscriminately kill other wildlife, 
and in some cases, as happened on the 
northern edge of my districts, kill domestic 
pets and poison humans with 
these indiscriminate M–44 devices 
which cause a horrible lingering death? 

b1300 
Now, why is the Federal government 
paying to subsidize this activity? That 
is the question before us. It is very 
simple. In fact, if Wildlife Services 
stops its obsession and all the amount 
of energy they put into this program, 
they will do a better control, a better 
job in other States protecting against 
bird strikes, protecting human health 
and safety. 
So this is a fiscally responsible 
amendment, an amendment that goes 
to cutting out an obsolete subsidy that 
goes to private ranchers in the West, 
and will also benefit environmentally 
in the western United States, will stop 
the indiscriminate destruction of non-
target wildlife. There are more coyotes 
now than when they started this program 
68 years ago, and they are more 
dispersed across the country, because 
they are not even looking at the biology, 
they are ignoring previous orders 
of Congress to look at more effective 
and nonlethal predator control methods. 
They are not targeting the problem, 
they are just breaking up and dispersing 
the packs. Now you have 
coyotes in places where they have not 
seen them in 100 years, like Manhattan, 
elevators in Seattle. It actually 
happened. This has not been seen for a 
long time in this country. 
It is time for this archaic and barbaric 
program and this subsidy to end. 
We have a very definitive opportunity 
to vote on it today. This is a very targeted 
amendment. Do not believe any 
of this other hooey about all the other 
problems that will be caused. 
Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
opposition to the amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, I hope the House will 
vote down this amendment. It is true, 
there are funds in the Animal and 
Plant Health Inspection Service for 
predator control in western States. 
There are also funds for predator control 
in northern, southern, and eastern 
States. 

There is money for research on Lyme 
disease and diseases spread by rats. 
There is money to control the spread of 
rabies in wild animals in the Midwest 
and eastern States. There is money to 
protect the bird population in Hawaii 
from devastation by the brown tree 
snake. There is money to protect airline 
passengers by controlling flocks of 
birds at airports. There is money to 
control damage to grain crops by 
blackbirds and to control migratory 
birds that feed on domestically produced 
fish, so those farmers can make 
a decent living. There is money to promote 
nonlethal methods of animal control. 
There is money for animal welfare. 


Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that if 
we are going to go after farmers and 
ranchers in one area of the country and 
deny them help, maybe we should look 
at all of the programs in this country 
and subsidies, to shift the entire burden 
to the States and the private sector. 


Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to 
vote no on this amendment. 

Mr. BASS. Mr. Chairman, I move to 
strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the 
amendment. This is the same amendment 
that we passed on a Friday and 
then defeated on a Monday with a few 
phone calls having been made over the 
weekend. I hope Congress would have 
the opportunity to vote again and be 
on record and pass this amendment 
this time. 

It has been said that this is a very 
important program. From my perspective, 
I think it is a waste of money. 
The program does not work. It essentially 
is money from the taxpayers’ 
pockets to private landholders to control 
predators on their own property. 
But what is sad about it is that the 
program seeks to spend $20 million to 
solve a problem that only costs private 
landholders $7.2 million per year. 

Nothing in this amendment, nothing 
in this amendment will affect in any 
way the programs for technical assistance 
or for bird control at airports. I 
serve on the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure and on the 
Subcommittee on Aviation. I am an instrument-
rated pilot. I have flown all 
over the country. I can assure the 
Members I would do nothing that 
would affect the safety of our Nation’s 
airport. 

This would carve out cleanly a subsidy 
to private individuals to control 
predators in a situation whose effectiveness 
is clearly under considerable 
question. 

It is true that some of the resources 
for this program do go to other parts of 
the country, but 95 percent of the funds 

for this program go to these western 
States and to these large ranchers to 
use for predator control. 

I would suggest that we can save 
money by passage of this amendment. 
We can eliminate a practice that by 
even the best of interpretations is neither 
effective nor seemly, and I think 
it is an entirely inappropriate use of 
Federal funds. 

Although I have enormous respect for 
all of the Members of the Committee 
on Appropriations who have supported 
this amendment, I think it is time that 
we eliminated this unnecessary funding 
from the Federal government. 

Mr. WALDEN of Oregon. Mr. Chairman, 
I move to strike the requisite 
number of words. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
this amendment. I want to talk about 
how my district is affected by what is 
going on out there. I want to share 
with the body some letters that I have 
received from people not only in the 
district but from the State of Oregon 
with regard to this. 

The head of the Department of Fish 
and Wildlife, the director, James 
Greer, has written saying, ‘‘We rely 
heavily on Wildlife Services as a partner 
in addressing the effects of wildlife 
and predatory animals on livestock and 
crops. Specifically, they provide animal 
damage control assistance to help 
resolve depredations caused by black 
bear, cougars, and other predatory animals. 
In addition, they deal with 
human safety threats from an increasing 
cougar and bear population.’’ 

These threats are from a cougar population 
that is very real. ‘‘According to 
a recent survey conducted by the Oregon 
Agricultural Statistics Service, 
more than $158 million of annual damage 
to Oregon agriculture products occurs 
from wildlife,’’ this from Phil 
Ward, the director of the Department 
of Agriculture in Oregon. 

Mr. Chairman, my district is one of 
the most rural districts in America. We 
have lots of family farms, and 55.5 percent 
of it is under Federal control. The 
refuges and all out there, we have enormous 
populations growing of predators. 
The Wallowa County School District 
tells me they have such a problem with 
cougars that they will not let the 
young kids off the bus until their parents 
are there to meet them. These are 
issues. 

Is this amendment going to deal with 
all of that? Probably not. I am not up 
here to make extraordinary claims. 
But the point is in these small rural 
counties, in these small counties that 
have 1,000, 2,000, 7,000 people, this program 
is an integral piece in an overall 
package to deal with predators. 

I want to show the Members a picture 
that does not look too damaging 
here, but this is a coyote and this is a 
lamb. The next picture in this series is 
probably too graphic for C-Span to 
show. So when Members hear about 
control, predator control, and that 
somehow that is an awful thing, the 
flip side of that is awful, as well. The 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3791 

flip side is the maiming that is done of 
sheep and cattle and all; animals raised 
for production, admittedly, but for 
problems that are caused by these 
predators. 

Mr. Chairman, I think this amendment 
goes too far. I think it hurts a 
program that is very important to the 
rural parts of America and that helps 
not just a handful of wealthy ranchers, 
as some might say, but probably close 
to 10,000 livestock producers each year 
are helped by this program. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. WALDEN of Oregon. I yield to 
the gentleman from Oregon. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding. Just on the 
photo, that was provided by the Federal 
government. It was actually taken 
at a test facility where the coyotes 
were starved and then put into an enclosure 
with sheep. It is a graphic 
photo, but it is not exactly representative. 


Mr. WALDEN of Oregon. Reclaiming 
my time, Mr. Chairman, if I might, the 
point is illustrative, here. The gentleman 
knows as well as I do, and as 
well as anybody out in agriculture 
knows, the next in a series of photos 
like this out in the real world, not in 
some pen but in the real world, is the 
devastation that we see. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. If the gentleman 
would further yield, and I appreciate 
the gentleman yielding, although we 
are on opposite sides of this issue, also 
on the total wildlife damage in agriculture 
in Oregon, it was $158 million. 
The gentleman is exactly correct. However, 
the damage to livestock from 
predators was about $1 million, and 
more was spent by the State and the 
Feds to control that than if we had actually 
reimbursed people. The major 
damage was damage to crops, $148.6 
million. 

That damage, interestingly enough, 
took place from things on which 
coyotes predate, such as field mice, 
ground squirrels, prairie dogs, et 
cetera, et cetera. All of their prey is 
causing a big problem. Now we have to 
start another new program to go out 
and control the things that the predators 
used to prey on because they are 
eating the grain and other crops. 

We need to get a better vision. I 
think the gentleman and I could construct 
something that would work better. 
I thank the gentleman for his 
time. 

Mr. WALDEN of Oregon. I appreciate 
the gentleman’s comments. However, I 
would say that indeed, I thought I 
heard earlier a comment about how the 
coyote population was growing rapidly 
around. So it is hard to argue both 
cases at the same time. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Not at all. If the gentleman 
will further yield, we will talk 
about coyote biology. 

Mr. WALDEN of Oregon. Mr. Chairman, 
reclaiming my time, the point 
here is that we have many problems in 
my district in terms of predators de


vouring livestock. This program is 
helpful to that as part of the bigger 
package that combines State and local 
funds to deal with it. 

Sometimes it is one game person 
that is out there dealing with this, one 
predator control officer. But because 
they are from such small entities, the 
funding is all combined. 

Mr. Chairman, I urge opposition to 
this. 

Mr. STENHOLM. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition 
to the DeFazio amendment, which 
basically guts the core funding for 
USDA’s Wildlife Services program. 
This is an important program that 
serves the public good in a number of 
ways, and it should be funded at the 
level approved by the House Appropriations 
Committee. 

Reducing funds for USDA’s Wildlife 
Services will not just affect lethal 
predator control in the West, it will 
also cripple other needed activities 
throughout the Nation. Often the same 
USDA staff who help ranchers manage 
problems of predators may also help 
local airports protect human life by removing 
flocks of birds near runways. 

I emphasize that one of the reasons 
why the DeFazio amendment does not 
work as he had intended is that we use 
the same people, and when we eliminate 
a person, that person who might 
be not only helping ranchers with their 
predator problems might also be the 
same person that is dealing with flocks 
of birds around airports. That gets 
overlooked in some of the concern 
which has been expressed here on the 
floor. 

Make no mistake about it, this reduction 
in funds is not a targeted cut. 
Let me also add that Wildlife Services 
is not a Federal giveaway program. 
The majority of funding for the work of 
USDA’s Wildlife Services comes from 
sources outside the Federal government, 
like State, local, and private organizations. 
Federal funds help to secure 
the basic program staff, who then 
are able to draw in significant funding 
directly from those who benefit from 
their work. However, without these 
USDA staff, it is unclear whether these 
outside funds will continue to be made 
available. 

Finally, I am amazed by the argument 
that this program is not needed 
because wildlife-generated losses to 
property and human life are considered 
low by some folks. That is like arguing 
that childhood immunization programs 
are a waste of money since so few children 
now die from these diseases. 

That is the whole point. We spend 
public money on preventative programs 
so we will not have to face the 
alternative. We spend money on Wildlife 
Services in order to avoid rabies 
epidemics, downed aircraft, and dead or 
maimed livestock. I simply do not 
agree that just because the program 
seems to be working efficiently, it 
should now be eliminated. 

Please support the responsible and 
necessary management of wildlife by 
opposing the DeFazio amendment. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. STENHOLM. I yield to the gentleman 
from Oregon. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Chairman, I would 
like to offer a compromise here. The 
gentleman raised a number of issues in 
which I am vitally concerned: Airports, 
bird strikes, those things on which a 
pitiful amount of money was spent last 
year, inadequate. 

So if the gentleman would accept the 
first part of the amendment, which is a 
limitation only for lethal predator control 
for livestock, and not delete the 
amount of money and then support 
that, I would be happy to actually 
leave the funds in if we direct the service 
to not waste the money on the lethal 
predator control. 

Would the gentleman accept that? 

Mr. STENHOLM. I most certainly 
would not, because I absolutely disagree 
with the intent of gentleman’s 
amendment. Even though that sounds 
very reasonable, it completely overlooks 
one of the fundamental areas I 
disagree with, that we do not need to 
be assisting our ranchers with predator 
control. 

The gentleman ought to come to the 
Seventeenth District of Texas and see 
what happens to livestock and what 
would happen under gentleman’s proposal. 


I just respectfully differ with the 
gentleman regarding what the gentleman 
intends and would like to do. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. If the gentleman 
would further yield, Mr. Chairman, I 
was the county commissioner. We had 
tough times. We had to cut our match, 
which lost our Federal predator control 
agents. 

All of my sheep ranchers were in and 
said, my God, you will not believe what 
is going to happen, Commissioner, if we 
do that. Do Members know what happened? 
Nothing. In fact, the predation 
went down over a 5-year period. 

That is really interesting, that when 
we stop spending the money, and we 
heard that they did kill some predators 
still, but they did it in a very discriminate 
form on their farms without a 
subsidy. I have a real life example in 
my district, which gets these funds, 
where we do better without them. I 
thank the gentleman. 

Mr. STENHOLM. That is where we 
have reasonable differences. I have real 
life experience on the other side. 

But also I would point out one other 
major, important aspect of it. It is rabies 
control. This is something that is 
extremely important to the general 
population in large segments of Texas. 
Perhaps in this one district in Oregon 
it is different. 

I would assure the Members, in most 
places of the country, the argument on 
the side of the Committee on Appropriations 
and what the gentleman from 
New Mexico (Mr. SKEEN) and the gentlewoman 
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) are 


H3792 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

suggesting is what the full House ought 
to do today. We ought to defeat this 
amendment. 

Mr. BONILLA. Mr. Chairman, I move 
to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

(Mr. BONILLA asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BONILLA. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in strong opposition to this amendment. 
This is a classic case of the proponents 
of an amendment using misinformation 
and emotional rhetoric to 
try to push their cause. 

I think I heard the word earlier in 
one of the arguments in favor of the 
amendment, the word ‘‘barbaric’’ used 
to describe the animal damage control 
program that currently exists, also 
called Wildlife Services, now. I stand 
corrected. 

But I ask my friends who suggest 
that this program might be barbaric 
for them to think for a second about 
children who might be afflicted by 
wildlife who are bitten by an animal afflicted 
by rabies. 

b1315 
When you think of the possibility of 
the eradication that we try to do in 
Texas, in Texas, for example, children 
playing in their yards and in States all 
across the country and throughout the 
Southwest, playing in their yards, who 
might be afflicted by rabies because of 
some coyote or some other animal that 
might be crossing through a playground 
that might be afflicted, I would 
suggest that that is barbaric for anyone 
to think that a program that exists 
to protect the safety of children in 
playgrounds, that is pretty barbaric to 
suggest that that program is ineffective. 
Also think about we just had a plane 
crash last week; and although the 
cause was not a form of wildlife, a 
flock of geese or birds flying into a 
plane engine, it is possible that that 
could occur. This wildlife services program 
tries to address that problem and 
keep those passengers safe in areas, 
many of which are located in the 
Northeast and in the New England 
area, tries to keep those passengers 
safe from any kind of accident like this 
by providing funds to control those 
flocks of birds near runways and airports. 
Now, I would suggest that it is barbaric 
for anyone to think that a program 
like this is not a good program 
that would protect the safety of families 
and children flying on airlines. So 
I would suggest that those who are proposing 
this kind of amendment, using 
misinformation and emotional rhetoric, 
should step back for a second and 
think about the safety of women and 
children, families of all ages from all 
parts of the country who might be 
harmed if this money is not in the 
budget, think about that and ask 
themselves if they could live with an 
accident occurring at an airport or live 
with a child dying who was afflicted 

with rabies because there was not 
enough money in the budget to support 
this program. 

Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

Mr. Chairman, I do not plan on taking 
all of the 5 minutes, but I rise in 
strong opposition. I do not have a dog 
in this hunt. I do not represent farmers; 
I do not represent ranchers. I have 
got mostly a city area in my district. 

But I want to tell my colleagues that 
San Diego is a series of canyons and 
areas where a lot of people hike, and up 
in the hills also. This last year we had 
two women joggers who were killed by 
mountain lions. We had requested that 
the Federal Government come in and 
help manage. Because they have not 
been able to hunt lions in a long time, 
these lions are coming into the parks, 
into where people picnic in private and 
public areas. A little child was mauled 
by a mountain lion, nearly died, lost an 
arm. Another woman was hiking, and 
the lion not only killed her, it ate most 
of her before they found her. 

California also has this little rodent 
called, a prairie-dog-type critter, a 
ground squirrel. We have heard about 
rabies, but in California this little rodent 
and the fleas they carry have bubonic 
plague. Now think of the terror 
that that word brings in our past history. 
We need those kinds of eradications, 
not only on public lands, but 
on private as well. We cannot just take 
care of the public lands and then go 
over and let that menace ride. 

So I rise in strong opposition to this. 
I have flown a jet out at Miramar. To 
tell my colleagues what an animal, a 
bird, will do to an airplane, this hawk 
went clear through my wing and broke 
the main spar of an F–4 Phantom that 
I was flying. The airplane was hard 
down. Luckily, I was able to land the 
airplane, but it totally destroyed the 
airplane, one hawk in the thing. 

When we talk about public health, we 
talk about rabies, we talk about 
plague, we talk about lethal predators; 
and for this reason, I rise in strong opposition 
to the amendment of the gentleman 
from Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO). 

Mrs. CUBIN. Mr. Chairman, I move 
to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

(Mrs. CUBIN asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Mrs. CUBIN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
strong opposition to the amendment 
offered by the gentleman from Oregon 
(Mr. DEFAZIO). 

I want to talk about just a couple different 
areas. I represent the entire 
State of Wyoming. Here is a little history 
lesson that I would like to give. 

A lot of people think that the public 
lands in the West are all national parks 
and national forests. Well, they are 
not. BLM land, or Bureau of Land Management 
land, makes up about half of 
the State of Wyoming, and it is owned 
by the Federal Government. The reason 
that is public land is because it is 

land that no one claimed when the 
Homestead Act expired. 

Now, why did not anybody claim that 
land? They did not claim it because, for 
the most part, it does not have water 
on it. It is not very productive. There 
is alkali on it and sagebrush. It is not 
productive land, so it was not claimed. 
No one wanted it. So it was put in trust 
for the Bureau of Land Management. 
That is now what is called the public 
lands in the West. 

Now if my colleagues stop and think 
about this for a minute, if my colleagues 
think about the ranchers and 
the public land that they have or the 
private land that they have, the private 
land is private because they homesteaded 
it because it has water on it. 
Then because there is water on it, 
there is grass, and there is feed for the 
cattle. 

But do my colleagues know what 
else? There is grass and feed and water 
for the wildlife as well. I am talking 
about deer and antelope, elk, moose, 
bear, and all of those kinds of species 
that we regard very highly that we 
want to take care of. 

Well, the USDA predator control, or 
Wildlife Services Program is there to 
protect that wildlife as well. So I think 
that the gentleman from Oregon’s opposition 
to this comes from the fact 
that private landowners are helped by 
this service on their private land. But 
when my colleagues consider that 80 
percent of the wildlife out there, the 
deer, antelope, elk, and so on is on private 
land. 

And yet the public is the owner of 
that wildlife. I think it is our responsibility, 
since we are the owners of that 
wildlife, to help take responsibility in 
caring for them. 

Another point I want to make, in Gillette, 
Wyoming, and Campbell County, 
we have a serious problem with rabies. 
Rabid skunks have gone into the City 
of Gillette, Wyoming, and this program 
is helping us with that problem. 

A cougar in Casper, Wyoming, was 
spotted just last week very near a playground. 
People in a city like Casper do 
not necessarily have the expertise to be 
able to deal with this without the help 
of this program. So it is very shortsighted 
to cut this program. It is a 
matter of public health, and it should 
also be a matter of public conscience. 

Mrs. EMERSON. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

Mr. Chairman, I want to also rise in 
opposition to this amendment that 
would severely undermine the USDA’s 
Wildlife Services Program. While I do 
not have a district out in the West but 
rather in the Midwest, it is very rural, 
and it is very big, and the fact of the 
matter is this program is a critical resource 
for the farmers and ranchers in 
my district who face the threat of crop 
and livestock damage. 

As a matter of fact, wildlife causes as 
much as $1.6 billion in damage to agriculture 
each year. Given the fact that 
our farmers, right now their entire 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3793 

livelihoods are threatened with uncertain 
markets, unpredictable weather, 
some of the lowest prices we have ever 
seen in decades, this additional threat 
of losses due to wildlife is really above 
and beyond all the other factors. It is 
something that we have to be very 
mindful of. 

I also want to make another point 
which is often overlooked. Our farmers 
and ranchers are among the best stewards 
of the land anywhere. They are 
our best conservationists. Their land 
provides wildlife habitat. Their production 
methods promote wide stewardship 
of that land. So let us not point 
the finger at the family farmer and 
rancher when, in fact, they are doing 
good things for the environment and 
things that are good for the American 
consumer. 

I oppose the amendment, and I urge 
my colleagues to do the same. 

Mrs. MORELLA. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
strong support of the Bass-DeFazio amendment. 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s 
Wildlife Services program spends millions of 
dollars annually to kill more than 100,000 
coyotes, foxes, bears, mountain lions, and 
other predators in the Western United States. 
Although there are non-lethal alternatives. 
Wildlife Services chooses to shoot, poision, 
trap, and even club to death both target and 
non-target animals. This taxpayer subsidy 
gives ranchers a disincentive to seek alternative 
methods of livestock protection that 
might be more effective. 

The USDA predator control methods are 
non-selective, inefficient, and inhumane. Aerial 
gunning, sodium cyanide poisoning, steel-
jawed leghold traps, and neck snares are 
Wildlife Services’ killing methods. These techniques 
have been known to kill pets and endangered 
and threatened species. Much of the 
killing is conducted before livestock is released 
into an area, with the expectation that 
predators will become a problem. However, 
killing wildlife to protect livestock is effective 
only if the individual animals who attack livestock 
are removed. Targeting the entire population 
is needlessly cruel, wastes taxpayer dollars 
and can be counter-productive. Studies 
have shown that predator populations reduced 
through indiscriminate killing produce larger litters 
to compensate and quickly rebuild to 
equal or greater than pre-controlled levels. 

With this amendment, the Wildlife Services’ 
program would be funded to assist with nonlethal 
predator protection services and in 
cases to protect human and endangered species 
lives. I urge my colleagues to support the 
Bass-DeFazio amendment. 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. Chairman, 
I rise in support of this amendment, 
which curtails the funding for what was formerly 
known as the Animal Damage Control 
program. 

This amendment cuts $7 million in funding 
for the Department of Agriculture’s inappropriately 
named ‘‘Wildlife Services’’ program. I say 
that it is inappropriately named, because the 
program does nothing to serve in the best interests 
of wildlife. It is, instead, a program 
whose purpose is to help farmers cope with 
natural predators who may prey on their livestock. 
While I believe that helping farmers is 
a laudable goal, the problem is that the way 
this program is administered, little help is provided 
and much damage caused. 

Each year, this program indiscriminately kills 
90,000 coyotes, foxes, bears and mountain 
lions. It is indiscriminate because there are 
few controls to ensure that the animals being 
slaughtered are tied to attacks on livestock. 
Oftentimes, young cubs are caught and killed, 
and on occasion, even a domesticated dog or 
cat will be mistakenly felled. This is simply not 
appropriate—and it should be stopped. 

Wildlife Services is cruel because Wildlife 
Services still insists on using barbaric methods 
to handle these animals—including poisons, 
snares, and leg-hold traps. Sometimes, these 
animals are simply clubbed to death. Harp 
Seals are not the only animals that need protection 
from this brutal practice. We can do 
better than this—humane animal control techniques 
exist in our modern world. We can relocate 
animals that have caused problems. 

How is it that we can build an internationally-
sponsored space station yet we cannot 
find a way to treat our animals humanely? Do 
we need to spray poison in the face of animals 
that can contaminate other animals, or 
even humans, it comes in contact with afterwards? 
Must we kill not only the offending animal, 
but also every innocent scavenger that 
happens upon its corpse? 

This program has been ineffective, and 
roundly criticized for decades. It was fully reviewed 
by advisory committees under the 
Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon and Carter Administrations—
each of which suggested numerous 
reforms, but none have been adopted. The 
General Accounting Office (GAO) similarly released 
a report in 1995 that found the program 
to be largely ineffective. 

Studies have shown the coyotes have 
adapted to our killing techniques much better 
than we have adapted towards more humane 
methods of predator control. Despite a 71% 
increase in funding for these programs between 
1983 and 1993, coyotes have compensated 
for the culling of their species by 
simply having more pups. Surely, we have 
been out-foxed here—and it is time to stop the 
United States government from behaving like 
Elmer Fudd flailing blindly at nature to no 
avail. 

We are smarter than this. This House is 
smarter than this. Therefore, I urge my colleagues 
to support this sensible and humane 
amendment being offered by Congressmen 
DEFAZIO and BASS. 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO). 

The question was taken; and the 
Chairman announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Chairman, I demand 
a recorded vote, and pending 
that, I make the point of order that a 
quorum is not present. 

The CHAIRMAN. Pursuant to House 
Resolution 185, further proceedings on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO) will 
be postponed. 

The point of no quorum is considered 
withdrawn. 

Mr. WALSH. Mr. Chairman, I rise to 
strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, I have an amendment 
at the desk that I do not intend at 
least at this time to present. But the 
tenor of the amendment, Mr. Chairman, 
would have prevented Agriculture 

Secretary Glickman from instituting a 
new Federal milk marketing order system 
that would put thousands of dairy 
farmers out of business by lowering the 
price paid to farmers for their milk by 
hundreds of millions of dollars. 

On March 31, 1999, Secretary Glickman 
announced his final decision on 
the Federal milk marketing order reform 
process that was required under 
1996 Freedom to Farm Act. Unfortunately, 
his decision to adopt what is referred 
to as a modified Option 1–B has 
the effect of lowering Class I differentials 
for milk to virtually all regions of 
the country with the exception of the 
upper Midwest. 

Can my colleagues imagine passing a 
policy, an agricultural policy that 
would harm the entire country except 
for perhaps two or three States. It defies 
logic. 

The Secretary of Agriculture’s decision 
flies in the face of broad bipartisan 
congressional multiregional support 
for Option 1–A. Congressional intent 
behind milk marketing order reform 
in no way anticipated this action 
by the Secretary. 

My amendment also would have continued 
existing law, meaning that it 
would allow the continuation of the 
Northeast Dairy Compact. There has 
been increasing support for similar 
such compacts around the country as a 
way to protect against and otherwise 
prevent the harm that would be done 
by the Secretary’s proposal and the 
havoc that it would cause in dairyland 
all across the Nation. 

So, Mr. Chairman, rather than offer 
the amendment at this time, I would 
like to enter into a colloquy with several 
of my colleagues. I see the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. COMBEST), 
chairman of the authorizing committee, 
the Committee on Agriculture, 
here; and I appreciate the gentleman 
coming down to participate in this discussion 
today. 

Would the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. COMBEST) agree that the Department 
of Agriculture’s recommendation 
of a modified version, Option 1–B, is 
unacceptable to the majority Members 
of Congress and more importantly the 
majority of American dairy farmers 
and would therefore have to be modified 
through the regular legislative 
process? 

Mr. COMBEST. Mr. Chairman, will 
the gentleman yield? 

Mr. WALSH. I am happy to yield to 
the gentleman from Texas. 

Mr. COMBEST. Mr. Chairman, 
would certainly be able to say yes just 
indicative of the fact that there is a 
bill to implement a different policy 
that I think has almost half of the 
Members of the House that are cosponsors 
of the bill. Certainly with the interest 
and concerns among the dairy 
industry, the Committee on Agriculture 
is certainly going to be looking 
into this in very short order. 

Mr. WALSH. Mr. Chairman, reclaiming 
my time, I appreciate the gentleman’s 
statement and clarification of 


H3794 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

the Committee on Agriculture’s position. 
My concern is that we need to ensure 
that the legislation is enacted 
into law before the Secretary’s modified 
Option 1–B pricing reform is imposed 
on dairy farmers in my district. 

Mr. COMBEST. Mr. Chairman, if the 
gentleman will yield, I would indicate 
to the gentleman, who has been a 
strong advocate of a dairy policy in 
this country and with a great deal of 
interest in this, there is a bill which 
has been introduced that will be the vehicle 
on the 24th of June for a hearing 
in the Subcommittee on Livestock and 
Horticulture that is chaired by the 
gentleman from California (Mr. 
POMBO). Very shortly after that, there 
will be markup on that bill, and that 
bill will then move to full consideration. 


Given the fact that there is a recognition 
of some timely concern here 
without the Chair’s being, I believe, 
able to give individuals total assurances 
about exactly what that final 
product would be, the vehicle that will 
be used for hearing purposes and for 
markup I think will be very much in 
line with the interest of the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. WALSH) in the 
dairy program. 

Mr. WALSH. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. COMBEST) 
for explaining the position of the 
committee clearly. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. POMBO), 
chairman of the Subcommittee on 
Livestock and Horticulture for his 
comments. 

Mr. POMBO. Mr. Chairman, I concur 
with the statement of the full committee 
chairman. I know of the intense 
interest of the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. WALSH) on this issue as well 
as a number of other Members of the 
House. As we have been negotiating 
and working through this issue, I will 
assure the gentleman that this is a 
very important issue, not only to his 
dairy farmers, but to mine back home, 
and that we will move through the 
hearing, the markup process, and move 
legislation on an expedited manner 
through the House and try to solve this 
problem as quickly as we possibly can. 

b1330 
Mr. WALSH. I thank the gentleman. 
With the assurances received from the 
chairman of the subcommittee and the 
chairman of the full committee I will 
at this time not offer my amendment. 
Mr. OBEY. Mr. Chairman, I move to 
strike the last word. 
Mr. Chairman, I take this time to 
comment on the colloquy that we just 
heard with respect to regional differences 
in the fluid milk dairy prices, 
and I would like to recite for this 
House what the history of this matter 
is. 
Since 1937, we have been operating 
under an outmoded system of milk 
marketing orders which mandates, by 
law, that certain farmers in certain regions 
of the country be paid more for 

their milk than are farmers from other 
sections of the country. That is a Federal 
law, believe it or not, and it has 
long since served its usefulness. 

When the farm bill was up on the 
floor 4 years ago, then-Congressman 
Gunderson, the chairman of the Dairy 
Subcommittee, tried to get a legislative 
remedy to that long outmoded policy, 
and when he did that he was 
blocked, cut off at the pass by the 
House leadership, the Republican leadership 
in the form of the Speaker and 
Mr. Solomon, who chaired the Committee 
on Rules. In essence, what they 
told Steve at the time was, ‘‘Sorry, we 
are not going to give you a chance to 
vote on a legislative remedy; the best 
you are going to get is that we will 
give the Secretary of Agriculture an 
opportunity to look at these milk marketing 
orders and decide through administrative 
action what kind of 
changes are needed.’’ 

Acting under that limited authority, 
Secretary Glickman proposed what was 
known as Option 1–B, which provided 
very minimal changes in the milk marketing 
order system across the country. 
That was found to be objectionable 
by many Members of this House, certainly 
not me but by many other Members, 
and so this House last year passed 
legislation which blocked the Secretary 
from moving ahead with those 
changes, those reforms in the milk 
marketing order system. 

So, then, Mr. Glickman went back to 
the drawing board and he produced a 
second modified version of his proposal, 
which would have provided some 
change, some modernization in that 
system, and it would have resulted in 
farmers in 15 of the 33 regions actually 
getting better prices for their milk 
than they do right now, and it would 
have had a downward pressure on some 
other regions. 

It just seems to me that it is amazing 
that the folks who won by preventing 
us from getting a legislative decision 
on this issue, and who insisted that 
this ought to be handled through the 
administrative route, are now saying 
that they are unhappy with even the 
tiny changes that were made administratively 
by the Secretary and are now 
suggesting that yet another legislative 
action is required to selectively amend 
the farm bill. 

I do not believe that is the right way 
to go. It seems to me strange indeed 
that in a Congress which so often talks 
about the need to move closer to market 
arrangements, that we are having 
people who are insisting on sticking to 
the status quo which blocks moving agriculture 
in the dairy area closer to 
market arrangements. 

I also find it interesting that some of 
the same folks who say that we should 
have free trade internationally are 
some of the same folks who, when it 
comes to internal trade within our own 
country, want to put up all kinds of 
trade barriers, informal trade barriers, 
in the form of these regional compacts. 

So I would simply say I cannot do 
anything about the colloquy that just 

took place between the Members of the 
majority party. All I can say, as one 
Member from the upper Midwest, is 
that I do not think it is fair for people 
to try to have this issue both ways. We 
were told that we should take our shot 
at the administrative route rather 
than the legislative route. That is what 
happened. And now the Members, at 
least some of the Members who just 
spoke, are now trying to suggest that 
we ought not to have let that happen 
either. 

We cannot move agriculture into the 
20th century by sticking with this outmoded, 
old-fashioned milk marketing 
order system. And I would suggest if 
we are going to open this issue up, then 
we ought to open up the whole farm 
bill; that we ought to open up the question 
of whether we ought to have any 
milk marketing orders at all. We ought 
to be allowed to vote on the question of 
whether there ought to be one national 
milk marketing order rather than a 
whole series of them. 

So I would urge Members to think 
carefully before they try to selectively 
reopen that farm bill. 

Mrs. CLAYTON. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the last word. 

If the chairman will engage me in a 
colloquy on the funding for the USDA 
facilities loan program, I would like to 
solicit his support for the administration’s 
funding request for programs 
like the community facilities loan and 
grant program, which finances multipurpose 
community centers through 
which local governments are able to 
provide services for children and the elderly, 
school facilities, and fire and 
rescue equipment. 

Mr. Chairman, over 50 percent of the 
community facilities funds are used for 
a variety of health services, including 
rural hospitals, mental health facilities, 
nursing homes, child care facilities 
which are desperately needed to 
assist in welfare reform. 

There is a great need for these facilities 
in rural America and especially in 
my First Congressional District of 
North Carolina where local governments 
do not have sufficient tax resources 
or the sufficient tax base to 
provide for these essential services. 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentlewoman yield? 

Mrs. CLAYTON. I yield to the gentleman 
from New Mexico. 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentlewoman for her support for 
this program and for rural America. I 
share her concern and promise to work 
in the conference to strengthen the 
community facilities loan and grant 
program for rural America and appreciate 
the gentlewoman’s efforts. 

Mrs. CLAYTON. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentleman. 

AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. DE FAZIO 

The CHAIRMAN. The pending business 
is the demand for a recorded vote 
on the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO) on 
which further proceedings were postponed 
and on which the noes prevailed 
by voice vote. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3795 

Cook John Reyes 
Cooksey Johnson, E. B. Riley 

The Clerk will redesignate the 

amendment. 

Cox Johnson, Sam Rodriguez 
The Clerk redesignated the amend-Cramer Kanjorski Rogan 
ment. 

Crane Kaptur Rogers 
Cubin Kasich Rohrabacher 
RECORDED VOTE 

Cunningham Kingston Ryun (KS) 
Danner Knollenberg Salmon

The CHAIRMAN. A recorded vote has 

Davis (FL) Kolbe Sandlin

been demanded. 

Deal Kuykendall Schaffer 
A recorded vote was ordered. DeLay LaFalce Scott 
Dickey LaHood Sessions

The vote was taken by electronic de-

Dicks Lampson Shadegg

vice, and there were—ayes 193, noes 230, 

Dingell Latham Shaw 
not voting 11, as follows: Dooley Lewis (CA) Sherwood 
Doolittle Lewis (KY) Shimkus

[Roll No. 172] 

Dreier Lucas (KY) Shows 
AYES—193 Dunn Lucas (OK) Shuster 
Edwards Manzullo Simpson

Ackerman Goss Nadler 

Ehrlich Martinez Skeen

Allen Green (TX) Neal 

Emerson Mascara Skelton

Andrews Green (WI) Obey 

Engel Matsui Smith (MI)

Baird Greenwood Olver 

Everett McCrery Smith (TX)

Baldacci Gutierrez Owens 

Ewing McHugh Souder

Baldwin Hall (OH) Pallone 

Farr McInnis Spence

Barr Hastings (FL) Pascrell 

Fletcher McIntosh Spratt

Barrett (WI) Hefley Paul 

Foley McIntyre Stabenow

Bass Hill (IN) Payne 

Ford McKeon Stearns

Becerra Hoeffel Pease 

Fowler Meek (FL) Stenholm

Berkley Holt Pelosi 

Frost Meeks (NY) Stump

Berman Horn Petri 

Gallegly Mica Stupak

Biggert Houghton Porter 

Ganske Miller, Gary Sweeney

Bilbray Hoyer Price (NC) 

Gekas Minge Talent

Blagojevich Hulshof Ramstad 

Gibbons Mink Tanner

Blumenauer Inslee Rangel 

Gillmor Mollohan Tauzin

Boehlert Jackson (IL) Rivers 

Goode Moran (KS) Taylor (NC)

Bonior Jackson-Lee Roemer 

Goodlatte Murtha Terry

Borski (TX) Ros-Lehtinen 

Goodling Myrick Thomas

Brady (PA) Johnson (CT) Rothman 

Gordon Napolitano Thompson (CA)

Brown (OH) Jones (NC) Roukema 

Graham Nethercutt Thompson (MS)

Campbell Jones (OH) Roybal-Allard 

Granger Ney Thornberry

Capuano Kelly Royce 

Hall (TX) Northup Thune

Cardin Kennedy Rush 

Hansen Norwood Thurman

Carson Kildee Ryan (WI) 

Hastings (WA) Nussle Tiahrt

Castle Kilpatrick Sabo 

Hayes Oberstar Traficant

Chabot Kind (WI) Sanchez 

Hayworth Ortiz Turner

Clay King (NY) Sanders 

Herger Ose Udall (NM)

Coburn Kleczka Sanford 

Hill (MT) Oxley Vitter

Collins Klink Sawyer 

Hilleary Packard Walden

Conyers Kucinich Saxton 

Hilliard Pastor Walsh

Costello Largent Scarborough 

Hinchey Peterson (MN) Wamp

Coyne Larson Schakowsky 

Hinojosa Peterson (PA) Watkins

Crowley LaTourette Sensenbrenner 

Hobson Phelps Watt (NC)

Cummings Lazio Serrano 

Hoekstra Pickering Watts (OK)

Davis (IL) Leach Shays 

Holden Pitts Weldon (FL)

Davis (VA) Lee Sherman 

Hooley Pombo Weldon (PA)

DeFazio Levin Sisisky 

Hostettler Pomeroy Wicker

DeGette Lewis (GA) Slaughter 

Hunter Portman Wilson

Delahunt Linder Smith (NJ) 

Hutchinson Pryce (OH) Wise

DeLauro Lipinski Smith (WA) 

Hyde Quinn Wolf

DeMint LoBiondo Snyder 

Isakson Radanovich Young (AK)

Deutsch Lofgren Stark 

Istook Rahall Young (FL)

Diaz-Balart Lowey Strickland 

Jefferson Regula

Dixon Luther Sununu 
Doggett Maloney (CT) Tancredo 

NOT VOTING—11 

Doyle Maloney (NY) Tauscher 

Boucher Gutknecht Pickett

Duncan Markey Taylor (MS) 

Brady (TX) Jenkins Reynolds

Ehlers McCarthy (MO) Tierney 

Brown (CA) Lantos Waters

English McCarthy (NY) Toomey 

Chenoweth McCollum

Eshoo McDermott Towns 
Etheridge McGovern Udall (CO) 

b1358

Evans McKinney Upton 
Fattah McNulty Velazquez 

Ms. DANNER, Ms. BROWN of Flor-

Filner Meehan Vento 

ida, Mrs. MEEK of Florida, and Messrs.

Forbes Menendez Visclosky 
Fossella Metcalf Waxman HILL of Montana, HILLIARD, 

Frank (MA) Millender-Weiner LARGENT, SMITH of Texas, ENGEL 
Franks (NJ) McDonald Weller 

and MICA changed their vote from

Frelinghuysen Miller (FL) Wexler 
Gejdenson Miller, George Weygand ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 
Gephardt Moakley Whitfield Mr. BOEHLERT changed his vote 
Gilchrest Moore Woolsey 

from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’

Gilman Moran (VA) Wu 

So the amendment was rejected.

Gonzalez Morella Wynn 
The result of the vote was announced 
NOES—230 

as above recorded. 
Abercrombie Berry Buyer Stated against:
Aderholt Bilirakis Callahan 

Mr. GUTKNECHT. Mr. Chairman, I was un-

Archer Bishop Calvert 

Armey Bliley Camp avoidably detained earlier today and was not 

Bachus Blunt Canady present for rollcall vote No. 172. Had I been 
Baker Boehner Cannon 

present, I would have voted ‘‘no’’.

Ballenger Bonilla Capps 
Barcia Bono Chambliss 

b1400 

Barrett (NE) Boswell Clayton 
Bartlett Boyd Clement AMENDMENT OFFERED BY MR. NETHERCUTT 
Barton Brown (FL) Clyburn 

Mr. NETHERCUTT. Mr. Chairman, I

Bateman Bryant Coble 
Bentsen Burr Combest 

offer an amendment. 
Bereuter Burton Condit The Clerk read as follows: 

Amendment offered by Mr. NETHERCUTT: 

In the general provisions title, insert the 
following new section: 

SEC. ll. (a) PROHIBITION ON UNILATERAL 
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the President shall 
not restrict or otherwise prohibit any exports 
of food, other agricultural products (including 
fertilizer), medicines, or medical 
supplies or equipment as part of any policy 
of existing or future unilateral economic 
sanctions imposed against a foreign government. 


(b) NATIONAL SECURITY WAIVER.—The 
President may waiver, for periods of not 
more than 1 year each, the applicability of 
subsection (a) with respect to a foreign country 
or entity if the President, with respect to 
each such waiver— 
(1) determines that the national security 
so requires; and 
(2) transmits to the Congress that determination, 
together with a detailed description 
of the reasons therfor, including an explanation 
of how the sanctions will further 
the national security. 
(c) UNILATERAL ECONOMIC SANCTION DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘unilateral 
economic sanction’’ means any restriction or 
condition on economic activity with respect 
to a foreign country or foreign entity that is 
imposed by the United States for reasons of 
foreign policy or national security, except in 
a case in which the United States imposes 
the measure pursuant to a multilateral regime 
and the other members of that regime 
have agreed to impose substantially equivalent 
measures. 
(d) APPLICABILITY.—This section shall 
apply only to private commercial exports 
that are not subject to any Federal guarantee 
or direct credit. 
Mr. NETHERCUTT (during the reading). 
Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous 
consent that the amendment be considered 
as read and printed in the RECORD. 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from 
Washington? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I 
reserve a point of order against the 
amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Florida reserves a point of order. 

Mr. NETHERCUTT. Mr. Chairman, 
the policy of the United States of 
America for years has been to impose 
unilateral sanctions against trade between 
our Nation and other nations 
with which we might disagree on policy 
matters. The policy of sanctions imposed 
on other nations with which we 
might disagree on policy matters is 
outdated. In 1980, we saw the agriculture 
markets that were prominent 
for the United States with the Soviet 
Union, we saw them disappear with the 
imposition of unilateral sanctions 
against the Soviet Union. Representing 
agriculture as I do, we in the agriculture 
communities of this country 
have still not gotten back the markets 
that we lost in 1980 by virtue of the 
unilateral imposition of sanctions 
against the Soviet Union. There are 
today nations around this country 
upon which the United States has imposed 
unilateral sanctions that we are 
not doing business with, but other 
countries of the world are doing business 
with these countries and selling 


H3796 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

agriculture products and medicines to 
these countries. We cannot because of 
our outdated sanctions policy. 

What my amendment does is, it lifts 
those sanctions on all countries on 
which we currently have sanctions for 
food and medicine only. There is no 
way in today’s world that food should 
be used as a weapon in international 
relations with other countries. It is inhumane, 
it is improper, and what it 
eventually does is damage the American 
agriculture community. My State 
of Washington exports roughly 90 percent 
of all the wheat that it grows in 
our State. We are an export State, and 
we feed the world. But yet our farmers, 
in a time of great challenge for American 
agriculture, are at a distinct disadvantage 
because we cannot sell to 
some of these sanctioned countries. 

What my amendment does is lift 
sanctions on all countries on which 
there are currently sanctions around 
the world as those sanctions relate to 
agriculture and medicine. They involve 
no direct Federal subsidies, these lifting 
of the sanctions, but it would allow 
our farmers to sell directly to sanctioned 
nations and sell our product. We 
are at a distinct disadvantage because 
other countries, our competitors for 
our farmers, are able to sell to those 
countries and provide food and medicine 
to those countries. Because of our 
outdated sanctions policy, American 
farmers cannot. 

This is wrong, it is something that 
should be changed. The market alone, 
the dollar market alone for our country 
and our American agriculture community 
is $6 billion that we would be 
able to bring into this country by virtue 
of sales to those sanctioned nations. 
Now, I understand the politics of 
dealing with a terrorist like Saddam 
Hussein, or the North Koreans or other 
countries on which we have sanctions 
and no trade relations. But yet as to 
agriculture and medicine, it seems to 
me this is bad policy, because it hurts 
our farmers. This amendment allows 
the President to reimpose those sanctions 
if for national security reasons he 
feels it is in the national security interests 
of our country to reimpose 
those sanctions. So there is a waiver 
provision in this amendment. 

This amendment received consideration 
in the full Committee on Appropriations, 
of which I am a member, and 
I am happy to be a member of the Subcommittee 
on Agriculture. It was a 
wonderful debate. Democrats and Republicans 
alike debated this issue back 
and forth. The amendment unfortunately 
lost by a 28–24 vote. But it was 
a great debate and it is something we 
ought to have in this country as we decide 
how to help agriculture in the free 
market system as we are moving to 
under the farm bill and from a humanitarian 
standpoint how we ought to be 
dealing with people in these other nations 
who have corrupt governments 
but not corrupt people. 

This is a humanitarian amendment. I 
fully appreciate the point of order that 

is being raised against it, I understand 
that completely, and my friend from 
Florida and I have discussed this issue 
at length. I respect him greatly. I respect 
his views on this whole issue. I 
understand the likely success of this 
amendment. But I want to make the 
very serious point, that we in this 
country have to make a decision about 
whether we are going to continue to 
use food as a weapon and medicine as a 
weapon. We will be faced in this Congress 
with the likelihood that the agriculture 
interests of our country, because 
of depressed prices, because of 
depressed markets, will come to this 
body and say, ‘‘We need more Federal 
assistance.’’ If that is the case, then 
the logical free market way to get 
through this is to lift sanctions to 
allow sales to be made abroad from a 
free market standpoint. 

I want my colleagues to know how 
seriously I view this issue. I hope that 
the House will take this matter up at 
the appropriate time. 

POINT OF ORDER 

The CHAIRMAN. Does the gentleman 
from Florida insist on his point of 
order? 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, if 
I may at this point speak to the point 
of order. 

I have the highest respect for the 
gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
NETHERCUTT). He speaks from conviction 
on this issue. As he mentioned, we 
have had and will continue to have 
very intense and serious discussions on 
this point. I also believe that markets 
that should be open to the United 
States at this time are not fully open, 
the first one being the European Union. 
The European Union, in violation even 
of accords entered into with us, continues 
to put up barriers on essential 
products of American producers. And 
so this is a key issue. If there has ever 
been a matter where the wisdom of the 
rule, in this case clause 2 of rule XXI 
prohibiting legislation on an appropriations 
bill, it is on an issue such as this. 

This is a very serious matter that we 
are discussing today. On the one hand, 
we all agree that all that can be done 
to open markets to U.S. producers, including 
and very especially our farmers, 
must be done. At the same time, 
we must recognize that the issue of 
trading with, opening an entire sector, 
a very important sector of the economy, 
of the U.S. production to sponsors 
of State terrorism is a very delicate 
matter and a very serious matter 
which requires great deliberation and 
study. That is why the rule is wise and 
it is the committee process and the deliberative 
process that must bring to 
the floor legislation dealing with critical 
matters such as this. 

When we talk about states such as 
North Korea, state sponsor of terrorism, 
or the Sudan where the President 
recently ordered an air strike 
against a medicine manufacturer, is 
that the only option that should be 
available to the United States? Military 
action? Or should sanctions be 

available to the United States in lieu 
of and instead of military action? This 
is a very serious question. Should we 
tie our hands so that the only action 
available in American diplomacy is 
military action? It is a very serious 
question. When we deal with the issue 
of the dictatorship in Cuba, 90 miles 
away, a state sponsor of terrorism, a 
safe haven for international terrorists 
with over 100 fugitives from U.S. justice 
responsible, the state itself with 
its air force in addition to that for the 
murder of U.S. citizens, unarmed U.S. 
citizens over international waters, 
when we discuss opening of U.S. market, 
the U.S. market to that state, that 
regime, that is a very serious matter. 
And so in essence what I am saying, 
with all respect to my colleague, and 
we will continue discussing this issue, 
yes, we must find ways to help America’s 
farmers, but without helping 
America’s enemies. And we will continue 
our discussions. They are intense, 
they are sincere, they will get to 
the heart of this matter, at the same 
time protecting the U.S. national security, 
in essence the national interests 
of the United States. And so at this 
time, unless my dear colleague has an 
announcement to make, I would have 
an announcement to make myself. 

The CHAIRMAN. Does the gentleman 
continue to reserve his point of order 
so that the Chair might recognize the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. 
SERRANO)? 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, it 
is my understanding that the gentleman 
from Washington has an announcement 
to make. Or I would insist 
on my point of order. 

Mr. NETHERCUTT. Mr. Chairman, I 
ask unanimous consent to withdraw 
the amendment in light of the gentleman’s 
insistence on a point of order. 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from 
Washington? 

PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I 
have a parliamentary inquiry. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman will 
state it. 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, if 
I insist on the point of order, what 
would be the difference between the 
gentleman withdrawing and my insistence 
on the point of order with regard 
to how it would affect debate? 

The CHAIRMAN. The Chair would 
then have to rule on the gentleman’s 
point of order. 

Is there objection to the gentleman’s 
unanimous-consent request to withdraw 
the amendment? 

There was no objection. 

The CHAIRMAN. The amendment is 
withdrawn. 

Mr. SERRANO. Mr. Chairman, 
move to strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, let me just first say 
that I have the highest respect for the 
gentleman from Florida. He knows 
that. I also have quite a bit of respect 
for the gentleman from Washington 
(Mr. NETHERCUTT) and a lot of respect 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3797 

for his amendment and even more 
growing every day for both the gentleman 
and all of his other policies. I 
think the gentleman from Florida 
makes an interesting point, that we 
should not at times do anything to 
help enemies we have in foreign governments. 


But on the other hand, I do not think 
we should hurt people that live in the 
countries where we may have enemies 
in the government. And so I think that 
this issue, as the gentleman from 
Washington has said, is one that we 
have to deal with. That is why I really 
think he has been so courageous on 
this issue. We may run away from this 
issue but we cannot hide from it. Eventually 
we are going to be called to answer 
questions as the greatest Nation 
on earth, as the Nation that produces 
the most food in the world: Why during 
the period of great prosperity for us we 
use food and medicine as a weapon to 
bring people around to our political 
will? 

This issue is not about whether we 
agree with a government or not. The 
issue is simply and it has to be repeated 
over and over again, whether we 
should deprive people in those countries 
whose government we disagree 
with the ability to have food and medicine, 
something that is so available to 
us in this country. And yes, at the 
same time we cannot deny that the 
way the gentleman from Washington 
and I and other people have presented 
this issue, it is also a good investment 
for this country, not only because we 
come off as being what we truly are, a 
good country that does not do this to 
other people but also because American 
farmers can sell food and medicine. 

b1415 
I will give my colleagues an example. 
The gentleman from Florida did 
bring up the issue of Cuba. I have a bill 
to do just that, to sell food and medicine 
to Cuba. 
In the area of food alone, if my colleagues 
can get past, for a second, the 
issue of whether we should even give 
this food away or not and the issue of 
food alone, the Cuban Government has 
made it clear that they would purchase 
up to $850 million in rice from this 
country, that they would purchase $700 
million in corn, that they would purchase 
over $500 million in chicken. 
Now, every time I mention one of 
these products, I know that a certain 
State delegation or a different State 
delegation gets excited. What a wonderful 
opportunity to do that which is 
humanely right and that which is good 
for our farmers. 
I must tell my colleagues when I first 
got elected 9 years ago, coming from a 
district in the Bronx, I never thought 
that I would have American farmers 
supporting a piece of legislation I presented, 
and they do, and they do because 
they support the fact that it is a 
good thing to do and a good thing to 
establish, Mr. Chairman. 
Now, the President, as we know, very 
recently said that we should do this 

with all other countries, but he could 
not do it for Cuba because of the fact 
that this is handled by legislation, that 
we cannot sell food and medicine to 
Cuba, and so I think that while this 
issue obviously will not be dealt with 
today, while this issue obviously will 
not become law anytime soon, while 
this issue obviously is still at the center 
of a political debate in this House 
which is not one that seems for our 
side to be winning, our side being those 
of us who agree that we should do this, 
the fact is that the time is coming for 
this. 

We cannot continue to have food and 
medicine business, if my colleagues 
will, with China, with Iraq, were Iran, 
with Sudan and other countries in the 
world and continue to argue that one 
place 90 miles from Miami should not 
be allowed the same sale. 

So I would hope that we do pay attention 
to this issue, and I would hope 
that in the near future the sponsorship 
of our bill will continue to grow. As it 
is, it is over 150 sponsors at the moment, 
and the minute we get to 218, we 
will talk to our colleagues about bringing 
it to the House. 

So I would hope, Mr. Chairman, with 
all due respect that all Members would 
see this for what it is. It is something 
that is right, it is something that is 
fair, and it is something that is long 
overdue. 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, 
will the gentleman yield? 

Mr. SERRANO. I yield to the gentleman 
from Florida. 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, 
the gentleman said that he came up 
with incredible numbers that I had not 
heard before about what Castro says he 
would buy from the United States. I 
think the gentleman said $800 million 
in rice and $500 million in chicken. 
Where does he buy that from now? 
Does the gentleman from New York 
know? 

Mr. SERRANO. Yes, those purchases 
made everywhere but from American 
farmers. 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Everywhere. 

Mr. Chairman, could the gentleman 
give me where that everywhere is? 

Mr. SERRANO. Well, rice comes from 
Asia. 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. I know that that 
is a confidence, but knowing, as I do, 
that Castro does not make those purchases 
now, I was curious to find out 
where the gentleman says that they 
are made now by Castro based on the 
fact that he has promised to make 
them in theory from us. 

Mr. SERRANO. Those purchases are 
made now, and they will be made here 
later. 

Mr. LATHAM. Mr. Chairman, I move 
to strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman 
from Washington (Mr. 
NETHERCUTT). 

Mr. NETHERCUTT. Mr. Chairman, I 
just want to make one final point relative 
to this debate. It is a good debate, 
it is a debate that we all ought to 

be having. It is a debate that we all 
ought to be having in this country because 
it affects foreign policy issues, it 
affects economic issues for our country. 


Look what we do in North Korea. We 
are providing hundreds of millions of 
dollars of agriculture aid, food aid, at 
the expense of the taxpayer to a regime 
that I think by all accounts is a corrupt 
regime in North Korea. Now I 
would rather have our country purchase, 
I should say our farmers sell 
commodities to North Korea and other 
such regimes like Iran and Iraq and 
others with whom we disagree violently 
on policy issues, but who will 
purchase our grain and will purchase 
our apples and purchase our other 
products, peas and lentils and other 
foodstuffs that will help from a humanitarian 
standpoint feed the people of 
those countries and also feed our farmers 
in our rural agriculture economy. 
So on the one hand our country is giving 
food to North Korea. 

What I want to do as we debate this 
in the days ahead, and I am not as pessimistic 
as perhaps my friend from New 
York. I think this has a great chance 
to be enacted this year if enough people 
will show their concern and compassion 
for the issue, and debate it and 
pursue it very forcefully. I think this is 
the best policy for our country to deal 
with these regimes diplomatically very 
forcefully, but not punish them and us 
by not providing them food and medicine. 


I just will put a plug in here, Mr. 
Chairman, for H.R. 212. It is the sanctions 
relief bill that has been introduced, 
that I introduced, that has lots 
of cosponsors, and we can have the debate 
about which sanctions we ought 
to impose or not impose on which 
countries. But from a conceptual 
standpoint, from a policy standpoint, 
lifting sanctions is the best policy for 
American agriculture, and I hope this 
House will adopt this, and the other 
body as well, along with the President. 
This is good policy for our country. 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, 
will the gentleman yield. 

Mr. LATHAM. I yield to the gentleman 
from Florida. 

Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Chairman, I 
agree with the gentleman from Washington 
(Mr. NETHERCUTT). This is an 
issue that needs debate. Every single 
country in the world is not only geographically, 
but historically and sociologically 
and politically in a different 
situation and in a different moment 
with regard to the certainty that it 
will have a democratic transition the 
moment of that democratic transition, 
and to broad-brush this issue, certainly 
again I would reiterate the wisdom of 
not doing so on an appropriations bill 
at the same time that I reiterate my 
willingness to continue discussions 
with those people like the gentleman 
from Washington (Mr. NETHERCUTT) 
who feel so strongly out of good-faith 
in this issue, not out of support for dictatorships, 
but out of good faith, and I 


H3798 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

will continue our discussions because it Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I ask debate is about. It is not about whether 
is dangerous to broad-brush, it is indis-unanimous consent to control one-half or not somebody can have an abortion; 
pensable that we not and that we rec-of the time, 1 hour, and allow the oppo-we all know that that is possible. 

ognize that sending signals to countries; 
for example, some terrorist 
states that have absolutely no way 
that they can pay, sending signals to 
them that they will no longer be sanctioned, 
that they will be in a situation 
where the American market will be 
open to them before liberation of political 
prisoners or free elections are held 
can be very destructive at this particular 
time. 

So I thank the gentleman for yielding, 
and I look forward to further discussions 
on this issue which must not 
be broad-brushed and which must remain 
leaving to the United States the 
option in particular instances of not 
having to have recourse to military action 
as the only way in which the 
United States can act. 

Mr. LATHAM. Mr. Chairman, I just 
want to make one point. 

I do not think this would be as much 
of an issue if we did not use embargoes 
like we have in this recent administration, 
and talk about sanctions, they 
are embargoes. No one likes to use that 
term because in agriculture that has 
real connotations, has real effects. 

We remember the Nixon embargo, the 
Carter embargo, how that devastated 
the agriculture. This, in fact, is what 
we are talking about, our embargoes, 
and in the last 80 years there have been 
120 embargoes put forth by this country 
and other countries, and in fact 
over half of them have been put in 
place in the last 61/2 years. 

So my colleagues can see the dramatic 
impact this has had on agriculture 
in recent years, a major reason 
for the decline in prices today, the fact 
that 40 percent of the world’s population 
today is under some type of embargo 
from the United States, and it is 
extraordinarily destructive to agriculture, 
to free trade and our position 
in the world market. 

AMENDMENT OFFERED BY MR. COBURN 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I offer 
an amendment. 

The Clerk read as follows: 

Amendment offered by Mr. COBURN: 

Insert before the short title the following 
new section: 

SEC. . None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used by the Food and Drug Administration 
for the testing, development, or approval (Including 
approval of production, manufacturing, 
or distribution) of any drug for the 
chemical inducement of abortion. 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, I ask 
unanimous consent that all debate on 
this amendment and all amendments 
thereto close in 2 hours and that the 
time be equally divided. 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from 
New Mexico? 

There was no objection. 

The CHAIRMAN. Does the gentleman 
wish to designate with whom the time 
will be divided? 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, no, we do 
not. 

sition to control one-half. 

The CHAIRMAN. Any Member seeking 
to control 1 hour in opposition? 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, yes, we 
will on this side control the 1 hour in 
opposition. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentlewoman 
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) will control 
the 1 hour in opposition. The gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN) 
will control the 1 hour in favor. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, we are going to hear a 
lot of debate this afternoon and statements 
about the intended purpose of 
this amendment. I want to say from 
the outset that this amendment is not 
intended to have an effect on any drug 
used for any purpose other than that 
which is specifically spelled out in this 
amendment. 

The taxpayers of the United States 
spend a great deal of money each year 
in funding the Food and Drug Administration. 
There is something terribly 
wrong when we ask the taxpayers of 
this country to spend money in a way 
which is designed to give the Food and 
Drug Administration the ability to research 
and approve drugs that are designed 
to kill unborn children. 

Now let me say that again. The purpose 
of this amendment is to limit the 
FDA’s ability to approve any drug 
which has its sole purpose to eliminate 
and terminate an unborn child. 

This should not be in a debate about 
abortion, and I do not intend it to be. 
It is about how we use taxpayers’ 
money and for what purpose should 
that money be used. 

Abortion is legal in this country. I 
recognize that. But allowing a Federal 
agency to spend taxpayers’ dollars to 
perfect and approve a method under 
which we take life to me seems totally 
irreconcilable with the fact that our 
whole country is supposed to be about 
the pursuit of happiness, the pursuit of 
freedom and the pursuit of life. 

So this amendment will not block 
Cytotech from being used in other 
medicines and in other ways, it will 
not block RU–486 if it has an intended 
purpose for giving life, saving life, prolonging 
life. It will not stop any utilization 
of FDA funds in terms of that 
effort. Its sole purpose is to say to the 
FDA none of their money should be 
used in a manner which will enhance 
the taking of unborn life. 

It is a very simple proposition. 
Whether one believes in abortion or do 
not, both sides of this issue believe 
that we have way too many abortions. 
None of us think that abortion is a 
great thing. There are not many people 
who have been through an abortion 
who think an abortion is a great thing. 

So I want to move our debate not to 
the issue of abortion, but whether or 
not we can in good conscience utilize 
taxpayer dollars to perfect drugs to 
kill unborn children. That is what the 

b1430 

Regrettably so, from my viewpoint. 
But, rather, the debate is about protecting 
unborn life from unwise use of 
Federal taxpayer dollars. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
opposition to the amendment, and 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


Mr. Chairman, as the gentleman 
knows, on many votes we share similar 
values, a similar point of view, and this 
Member certainly does not have a voting 
record of supporting Federal funding 
for abortion. I have read carefully 
the gentleman’s amendment. I think it 
is a bit different from the one the gentleman 
offered 1 or 2 years ago, if I recall. 


I think that the wording of the gentleman’s 
amendment has a worthy purpose. 
The problem is, I oppose the gentleman’s 
amendment respectfully for 
three reasons. First of all, on the basis 
of science. 

I do not think that we can really say 
with certainty and the kind of broad 
language that the gentleman has included 
in his amendment that you 
know for certain what every drug will 
be used for. I do not have a Ph.D. in 
science myself, but certainly in the 
area of medical science, if I think 
about the decade of the brain that we 
are now working our way through and 
all of the discoveries that have been 
made, for example, in the area of mental 
illness, most of them by accident; 
in places like France, for example, 
where patients were on operating tables, 
and in order to alleviate pain they 
were using certain types of pain medications, 
and, all of a sudden, they discovered, 
my gosh, why did that work to 
help to diminish hallucinations and 
other conditions relating to mental illness? 


We certainly are in a period of time 
now where many of these medications 
that were by accident discovered to 
have application for the remediation of 
the symptoms of mental illness are 
being worked on, and medical science 
is at a new horizon in terms of hopefully 
finding answers for the millions 
and millions of people that suffer from 
those illnesses. 

I think similarly to some of the lab 
experiments that have been done, even 
the discovery of the X-ray itself was an 
accident. They did not go in there, I 
think it was Mr. Roentgen, was that 
not the name, to actually discover x-
rays, but it happened. All of a sudden 
we have a major technology like that 
that has been used around the world 
now because of the ability of science to 
probe into the unknown, but then to 
figure out practical applications. 

I think the gentleman’s desire to 
limit abortion is a very worthy objective, 
and I do not think anybody on 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3799 

this side of the aisle would disagree 
with the objective. The problem is that 
you cannot really say to medical 
science that you are going to know for 
every drug or every chemical that FDA 
reviews, you are going to know that it 
would have an end result that you are 
talking about. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentlewoman yield? 

Ms. KAPTUR. I yield to the gentleman 
from Oklahoma. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, perhaps 
the gentlewoman did not hear my first 
statement. There is nothing in this 
amendment that will limit the research 
of any drug in any way, in any 
concept, whose purpose is something 
other than that. So if you were to take 
Cytotech or RU–486 and say you want 
to try to use it in a different way, this 
does not limit that at all. When you 
file an application with the FDA, you 
give what your intended purpose is. 

What this amendment says is if you 
bring to the FDA a drug whose only intended 
purpose is to induce the separation 
of a blastocyst from the uterine 
wall, that is the technical term for 
what it does, that they should not 
spend money approving that. 

If you bring the same drug to the 
FDA and say this is something that 
solves a problem with the liver, or this 
decreases portal hypertension, even 
though it might have that effect of 
causing an inducement of abortion, it 
is still approved. 

Let me give you some examples. 
There is a new hair treatment to grow 
hair back on the head of the gentleman 
from California (Mr. WAXMAN), yet it 
cannot be used around anyone wanting 
to get pregnant. Why? Because it 
causes severe birth defects and can in 
fact induce abortions. That was approved. 
This would not eliminate that 
drug from ever coming to market or 
the FDA spending money on it. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, reclaiming 
my time, I guess my point is 
to the gentleman that scientific inquiry 
and the work of the FDA by its 
very nature probes into the unknown, 
and even though the gentleman says 
that a given drug has to state a purpose, 
I am saying that we do not always 
know, once science begins to 
move, all of the various applications 
that science might ultimately have for 
that substance. 

So I think that one of the reasons for 
my opposition to the amendment is I 
do not think we ought to prejudge 
science. We ought to let the Food and 
Drug Administration move forward, 
the scientists ought to move forward. 
Let them do what they do best. 

I would guess that most drugs have 
more than one application, and the 
chemicals that go into them. Even 
today, many drugs are given, prescription 
drugs in fact, that may have side 
effects or other results that even the 
FDA scientists have not anticipated as 
they begin. 

The second reason I oppose the gentleman’s 
amendment is because I real


ly do believe that this should be within 
the Food and Drug Administration. I 
do not think that we should be making 
this decision on the floor. We should 
leave it up to the people over at FDA 
to decide the procedures for drug approval 
and so forth, and Federal law 
currently provides that no Federal 
money can be spent for abortion. That 
has been on the books for many, many, 
many years. So I think that we should 
let the FDA do its job. 

Finally, I would say to the gentleman, 
with all due respect, this subcommittee 
of the Committee on Agriculture 
had absolutely no testimony on 
this issue. The gentleman is bringing a 
very important issue to the floor. I personally, 
as just one member of that 
subcommittee, would have appreciated 
to have the FDA testify before us, 
many scientists, to talk about the 
chemistry of what the gentleman is 
concerned about, to try to perfect the 
language of what the gentleman is trying 
to offer here. 

We really have heard from no one in 
the public on this particular subcommittee. 
So I find it somewhat uncomfortable 
to try to accept the gentleman’s 
amendment, when our subcommittee 
really had absolutely nothing, 
we did not spend one minute on 
this within the committee itself. 

So for those three reasons, and I 
want to yield time to other Members to 
comment, on the basis of science, on 
the basis of the safety by having the 
FDA involved, and also committee procedure, 
I would respectfully oppose the 
gentleman’s amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume to 
respond. 

Mr. Chairman, again, what the gentlewoman 
just said is it is against the 
Federal law to use Federal dollars for 
abortion, but in fact when the FDA approves 
a drug whose sole purpose is to 
kill unborn children, that is spending 
Federal dollars to perform abortion. So 
I would counter that. 

Number two, there was no intention 
to come before your committee on this 
issue. This is a well-known issue, this 
is well documented. There is lots written 
on RU–486 and Cytotech, and 
through this discussion I will be happy 
to give you all of the references in the 
literature on that. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
PITTS). 

Mr. PITTS. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today in support of the Coburn amendment’s 
efforts to protect the lives and 
health of our Nation’s women and unborn 
children. 

This amendment would bar FDA’s approval 
and development of new drugs 
whose primary purpose is to induce 
abortion. Those are called 
abortifacients. 

Some people believe it is in the best 
interests of women to make all forms 
of abortion available to women. How


ever, even for those who support abortion 
on demand, approving RU–486 is 
shortsighted and it is a risky approach. 
Scientific studies have shown a link 
between abortion and breast cancer. 
Unfortunately, many who commit 
abortions do not want to let women 
know about that risk. 

Breast cancer is the leading form of 
cancer among middle-age American 
women, but we do not even want to tell 
women who are considering abortion of 
this risk. 

Ten out of 11 studies on American 
women report an increased risk of 
breast cancer after having an induced 
abortion. 

A meta-analysis in which all worldwide 
data were combined reported that 
an induced abortion elevates a woman’s 
risk of developing breast cancer by 
30 percent. How can we in good conscience 
approve new forms of abortion 
before we study the breast cancer and 
abortion link further and let women 
know of the risk? 

This is the kind of investigation that 
should be done. This kind of information 
should be held in hearings before 
the committee. So I urge the Members 
to support the Coburn amendment to 
protect women, both born and unborn. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
41/2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
the State of Connecticut (Ms. 
DELAURO). 

Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentlewoman for yielding me 
time. 

Mr. Chairman, I might just say to 
the last speaker, very quickly, that in 
fact the editor of the Journal of the 
National Cancer Institute has said that 
there is insufficient evidence that exists 
to link induced abortion and breast 
cancer. That is a medical opinion. 

Let me move onto this amendment 
this afternoon. I am shocked, quite 
frankly, that we are going through this 
debate again this year after the outcry 
of the many medical and pharmaceutical 
organizations who opposed 
this amendment last year. It is an unprecedented 
invasion into the FDA’s 
approval process. 

Quite frankly, this is a place where 
Congress has no right to be. We are not 
scientists. We do not know what is best 
for the health of American citizens. 

This amendment is intended to block 
research. It blocks not only drugs that 
are currently in the pipeline, but potential 
future breakthroughs in biomedical 
research. It is an attempt to 
promote an anti-choice agenda. I have 
respect for people who have a different 
view of this issue on choice than I do, 
but the proponents of this amendment 
are risking the lives of millions of 
Americans, because this amendment 
would also block the development of 
drugs to cure cancer, ulcers, rheumatoid 
arthritis, epilepsy, and other 
medical conditions because some of 
those drugs can cause a spontaneous 
miscarriage. 

Let me read you a portion of a letter 
from the National Coalition of Cancer 


H3800 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

Research that is just one of the many 
medical organizations that is firmly 
opposed to this amendment: 

‘‘Attempting to legislate any drug’s 
approval or disapproval is inappropriate. 
It starts down a slippery slope 
of prohibiting development in certain 
drug categories. The comment that the 
ranking member of this committee 
made, not only does it threaten the 
credibility of the drug approval process, 
it would impede the development 
of pharmaceuticals to treat different 
diseases not related to reproduction, 
such as cancer. If disease or condition-
specific approval is dictated by legislative 
action, drug researchists’ efforts 
to develop new therapies will be stymied.’’ 
By passing this, the FDA’s approval 
process would be prevented from 
having the opportunity to do something 
about this issue. 

Let me just talk to you for a second 
as a cancer survivor. I am a survivor of 
ovarian cancer; 25,500 women will contract 
ovarian cancer this year; one-half 
of them will die. Any chemotherapy 
drug that is taken by anyone with cancer, 
any chemotherapy drug has the 
propensity to cause a spontaneous miscarriage. 
Why do we take our personal 
philosophy about where we are on 
choice and try to foist it on the millions 
of Americans who, through no 
fault of their own, contract cancer or a 
serious illness? 

b1445 
Why would we relegate millions of 
women to die because we have a particular 
view on choice? 
Mr. Chairman, it is wrong for us to 
prevent biomedical research. We have 
an obligation. We spend billions of dollars 
to promote what happens at the 
National Institutes of Health because 
we believe we have the obligation to 
cure disease in this country. Do not 
take an action here this afternoon that 
would in fact condemn millions to die 
because somehow we want to score a 
point on choice in this country. 
It is wrong, it is unconscionable, and 
I plead with my colleagues to defeat 
this outrageous amendment this afternoon. 
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Chairman, 
I ask unanimous consent to control 
the time allotted to the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN) during 
his brief absence. 
The CHAIRMAN (Mr. PEASE). Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from New Jersey? 
There was no objection. 
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Chairman, 
I am happy and pleased to yield 
such time as she may consume to the 
gentlewoman from North Carolina 
(Mrs. MYRICK). 
Mrs. MYRICK. Mr. Chairman, I think 
most of us agree that we would like to 
be seeking alternatives to abortion, 
rather than making abortion more accessible. 
But the one issue that I wanted to 
speak on today is what has been shown 
scientifically as an increased risk of 

breast cancer. Supposedly there is a 
link between breast cancer and abortion. 
This should be examined much 
more thoroughly before any new forms 
are approved. 

Ten out of 11 studies on American 
women report an increased risk of 
breast cancer after having an induced 
abortion, particularly among women 
with a history of breast cancer in their 
families. We know this is already a 
major problem which we are trying to 
effectively deal with because currently 
cancer is the leading form, or breast 
cancer is the leading form of cancer 
among middle-aged American women. 

In the few countries in which RU–486 
is available, it is strictly regulated by 
the government’s health care systems. 
However, in the U.S., control of abortion 
drugs is more lax, and sometimes 
they are often dispensed without a doctor’s 
approval, which again potentially 
endangers women’s health. 

But because of the potentially dangerous 
side effects of abortion, and this 
is not just physical, this is emotional, 
as well, these drugs should not be administered 
without consultation and 
medical follow-up with a doctor. So I 
hope we give this serious thought. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I am 
very pleased to yield 4 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from the great State of 
New York (Mrs. LOWEY), a member of 
the committee. 

(Mrs. LOWEY asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
our ranking member for yielding time 
to me. 

Before I address the overall issue, I 
would like to respond to my colleague, 
the gentlewoman from North Carolina 
(Mrs. MYRICK) by reading another 
quote. 

‘‘The Danish researchers concluded 
that induced abortion has no effect on 
the risk of breast cancer.’’ When reporting 
on a particular study, the New 
York Times stated: ‘‘This longstanding 
issue shall now be settled. No evidence 
exists to link induced abortion and 
breast cancer.’’ 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition 
to the Coburn amendment. The 
amendment would stop the drug approval 
process in its tracks by placing 
unprecedented roadblocks in front of 
the FDA. It puts ideology ahead of 
science and compromises women’s 
health. 

The Coburn amendment would block 
the final approval of a drug, RU–486, 
that the FDA has already declared to 
be safe and effective. I repeat, this 
amendment would block final approval 
of a drug that the FDA has already declared 
safe and effective. 

This amendment would make FDA 
drug approval contingent not on 
science but on politics. The FDA is 
charged with protecting the public’s 
health, and should not be subject to 
congressional interference. Should we 
subject each FDA decision to a congressional 
vote? Mr. Chairman, let us 

allow the FDA to do its job free from 
right-wing intimidation. The American 
people do not want the Christian Coalition 
in charge of our Nation’s drug approval 
process. 

This amendment may also prohibit 
the development of new, more effective 
contraceptive methods, if Members believe, 
as some do, that any form of hormonal 
contraception, like in this bill, 
is tantamount to an abortion. 

What about other drugs that as a side 
effect may induce abortion, like many 
chemotherapy drugs and anti-ulcer 
medication? Will research be halted on 
these lifesaving drugs as well? This 
amendment is too vague even to give 
us a clear answer to that question. 

So, Mr. Chairman, this amendment is 
about much more than RU–486. It is 
about whether the FDA will be free to 
test, develop, and approve needed drugs 
without congressional interference. It 
is about whether politics or science 
will govern our Nation’s drug approval 
process. 

Since Roe v. Wade, the anti-choice 
minority has attempted to stymie contraceptive 
research and suppress advances 
in reproductive health. For example, 
there used to be 13 pharmaceutical 
companies engaged in contraceptive 
research. There are now four. 
Thankfully, despite pressure tactics, 
scientists have made some important 
progress. Among the most significant 
is the development of RU–486. 

RU–486 would make a dramatic difference 
in the options available to 
women facing unintended pregnancies. 
It could make abortion, already one of 
the safest medical procedures, even 
safer. Women in France have been 
using RU–486 for a decade. It is also 
available in Sweden and Great Britain. 

Over 400,000 women have had abortions 
using RU–486. The New England 
Journal of Medicine has published clinical 
trials confirming its acceptability 
and effectiveness. Also, RU–486 has another 
significant advantage over current 
abortion procedures, it can be 
given in the privacy of a physician’s office. 


What will the right do when it is approved? 
Will it picket every doctor’s 
office in America? Will it harass every 
woman in the Nation? Thankfully, it 
cannot. That is why it is fighting to 
block the approval of this drug. 

Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Chairman, 
I yield myself such time as I may 
consume. 

Mr. Chairman, first of all, I just want 
to respond briefly to the previous 
speaker. When I hear talk of the so-
called anti-choice minority, I find that 
not only empirically unsound, because 
the data clearly shows America is moving 
increasingly toward the right-tolife 
position. But its insulting as well. 
Minority? I don’t think so. As a matter 
of fact, two polls recently came out. 
One was done by Faye Wattleton’s 
group, the former president of the 
Planned Parenthood Federation of 
America. According to The Center for 
Gender Equality Survey, January of 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3801 

1999: ‘‘Seventy percent of women favor 
more restrictions on abortions;’’ 
women, 70 percent. That doesn’t sound 
like a ‘‘minority’’ to me. The survey 
also found fifty-three percent of women 
today favor banning abortion except 
for rape, incest, and life of the mother. 
Rape, incest and life of the mother is 
about two or three percent of all the 
reasons as to why abortions are procured. 
So most women want most abortions 
made illegal. 

Most of the 4,000 babies who die, each 
day in America from abortion would be 
saved if the opinions of a majority of 
women—if their sentiment—were enacted 
into law. The Coburn amendment 
does far less than what a majority of 
women want and we are not talking 
even remotely about banning abortion 
in this pending amendment. Yet, 53 
percent of women today favor banning 
abortion, except for rape, incest, or life 
of the mother. 

The survey interestingly points out 
that that is up from 45 percent of 
women just 2 years ago. So there is a 
sea change occurring. Americans are 
beginning to wake up to the fact that 
abortion is violence against children. 

There is also a USA Today CNN Gallup 
poll that found that 55 percent of 
all men and women say abortion in 
America should be legal only under 
rape, incest, or threat to the life of the 
mother. So again, a majority of men 
and women and a majority of just 
women that have been found in the 
USA Today-CNN poll and the Center 
for Gender Equality survey that the 
majority is in favor of protecting the 
lives of innocent unborn children, except 
in the most extreme circumstances 
that, frankly, rarely, rarely 
happen. 

If we had legislation that protected 
those children, again, we would be saving 
most of the lives. When polled on 
funding, an overwhelming majority of 
Americans in every poll, and I ask 
Members to look at their own polls in 
their own districts, most will show 
clearly an overwhelming majority of 
Americans are against using taxpayer-
funded monies to pay for abortions, except 
in the rarest of cases. 

This legislation, this amendment, the 
amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN) is the 
Hyde amendment of the FDA. Let us be 
very clear about it, it is the Hyde 
amendment being applied to testing of 
those drugs that are used to procure an 
abortion. 

I believe history and human rights 
observance are on our side, the pro-life 
side. Some day the viewpoint from the 
pro-abortion side will be seen as so 
misguided and even cruel that people 
will say, how could they have imposed 
such violence on innocent, unborn children, 
especially at a time when we 
know more about unborn children than 
ever before in the history of mankind 
or womankind. Today microsurgery on 
unborn children, is almost common 
place. Children are literally lifted out 
of the mother’s womb and surgery is 

performed, and then they are reinserted 
to grow and develop and mature 
until birth time. 

Birth has to be seen, I say to my colleagues, 
as an event that happens to 
each and every one of us. It is not the 
beginning of human life. That happens 
much, much sooner than that at fertilization. 


What the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. COBURN) is trying to do with his 
amendment is to say that babies are 
not junk. They are not throwaways. 
Some Members want to allow the FDA 
to invent the newest form of mousetrap, 
to come up with another more lethal 
way of destroying unborn children. 
We can’t allow that to happen. 
And RU–486 is not really a morning 
after drug, it is used up to 7 weeks 
after fertilization. It causes the abortion 
to occur usually after 7 weeks into 
the gestational cycle. That is not 
morning after. 

I find it offensive, that my tax dollars, 
American people, not some so-
called anti-choice minority but a pro-
life majority are used to test and approve 
deadly poisons for children. 

The pro-abortion side does not enjoy 
a majority in this country. Through 
manipulation of poll data over the 
years the pro-abortion side has given 
the impression, the perception that 
that is the case, but now the pollsters 
are now asking more specific and enlightening 
questions, and all of a sudden 
it is revealing that, one, more people 
are pro-life, and also, when they 
ask the same question over the last 
several years, there has been a change 
in our direction. 

My friend from New York Mrs. 
LOWEY says there is no linkage of abortion 
and breast cancer. Yet 10 out of 11 
studies on American women report an 
increase in breast cancer when women 
under goes abortion. The ‘‘denial’’ people 
remind me, of the tobacco Institute 
denials who year after year said there 
is no connection between smoking and 
lung cancer. 

There is a compelling linkage of 
breast cancer and abortion. Dr. Janet 
Daling, with a National Cancer Institute-
funded study, found that after just 
one abortion there is an increase in the 
aggregate of all women of about 50 percent 
in the propensity to get breast 
cancer. She is not a pro-lifer. She does 
not agree with my position or that of 
the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. 
COBURN). 

She also found that if a woman 
aborts her first baby that number 
shoots up to 150 percent. Shame on 
those who say there is no linkage. 
They are misleading women. They are 
misleading women. And putting women 
at risk. 

Dr. Daling also found that where 
there is a history of breast cancer in 
that family, the vote skyrockets to 270 
percent when abortion is involved. So 
if the mother, or the grandmother or 
sister or someone in that family has 
had breast cancer, one abortion means 
that there is a greater likelihood that 

she will get breast cancer. Why the 
coverup 

We would hope that the FDA would 
spend more time looking at drugs to 
mitigate breast cancer and to try to 
get rid of that terrible, terrible disease, 
and that the whole abortion establishment 
would stop the cover-up, and 
begin informing women about their 
risks. 

Let me just also point out, Mr. Chairman, 
that RU–486 and chemical abortions, 
just like dismemberment abortions, 
just like those abortions where 
the baby’s brains are literally sucked 
out, partial birth abortions, chemical 
abortions are just another way of killing 
the baby. 

I think it is time to stop pro-abortion 
sophistry and the ignoring of the basic 
fact that every act of abortion takes a 
life. It is violence against children. 
Some day we are going to realize that, 
Mr. Chairman. We do not want our tax 
dollars being used to perfect another 
way, another chemical poison, another 
baby pesticide to kill babies. That is 
what we are talking about. Come up 
with drugs that heal, do not promote 
drugs and make me and my colleagues 
on the pro-life side on both sides of the 
aisle fund and pay for killing agents. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. I yield to 
the gentlewoman from New York. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I would 
just like to refer my colleague again to 
statements from the National Cancer 
Institute, because we feel so strongly 
that we should not be mixing up politics 
and science, confusing our own 
personal views, and I respect the gentleman’s, 
on whether or not women 
should have a choice. I would expect 
that the gentleman respects others’. 

In 1996 the National Cancer Institute, 
concerned that some anti-abortion 
groups were misrepresenting the 
science on the subject, issued a statement, 
not my statement, their statement, 
and I quote, ‘‘The available data 
on the relationship between induced 
abortions or spontaneous abortions, 
miscarriages, and breast cancer are inconsistent, 
inconclusive. There is no 
evident of a direct relationship between 
breast cancer and either induced 
or spontaneous abortion.’’ 

Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Reclaiming 
my time, Mr. Chairman, as I pointed 
out earlier in the debate 10 of the 11 
studies on American women reported 
an increase on breast cancer when the 
women had an abortion. You may say 
there needs to be more studies. I say 
there needs to be more studies. Everybody 
says that. 

But when we get a preponderance of 
studies pointing in the same direction, 
I think we should alert women that 
there is a negative devastating side effect 
sometimes manifesting itself 20 to 
30 years down the line that cannot be 
ignored and trivialized. 

When Janet Daling’s study came out, 
which was National Cancer Institute-
funded it received adequate coverage in 


H3802 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

the Washington Post for one day. Then 
all trace of the story was killed with 
spin from the abortion rights side. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I ask 
unanimous consent to reclaim control 
of the time. 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from 
Oklahoma? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I want to respond to 
the National Cancer Institute study. 
The gentlewoman added one word there 
that totally throws out what they said, 
‘‘spontaneous.’’ If we add all the spontaneous 
abortions in with the induced 
abortions, we will not get an effect, because 
the number of spontaneous abortions 
is close to 600,000 to 700,000 per 
year, 800,000 in some studies. So by 
combining that data, a normal response 
to a wrong and incomplete reproductive 
event to the termination of 
a normal event, we do not have good 
data. They know that. That is why 
they put that material in there. 

I want to continue my point, if I 
may. I will be happy to debate back 
and forth with the gentlewoman. 

Mr. Chairman, I heard from this floor 
statements exactly opposite of what I 
said was the intention of my amendment. 
I am deeply concerned that people 
would use untruth about what this 
intended amendment is. Everyone 
knows me well enough that I am not 
going to oppose good research for 
things that help people get well. 

There is nothing, and it does not 
matter what the gentlewoman says, 
there is nothing in this amendment 
that will eliminate any cure for cancer, 
eliminate any process under which any 
drug can be studied for cancer, because 
the actual application that the Food 
and Drug uses, which is right here, it 
says, what is the purpose for the IND. 
And if the purpose is chemical inducement 
for abortion, then they cannot do 
it. If it says anything else other than 
that, they cannot. 

Finally, I would like to comment 
about the comments on whether or not 
we ought to be involved in this. 

b1500 
If the issue of life is not something 
this House should debate, I do not 
know what we should debate. There is 
nothing more important, whether it is 
the end of life or beginning of life. 
We can have our differences. We have 
a Supreme Court ruling; I understand 
that. But to say we should not be debating 
and then finally to say that 
Congress should not try to work what 
it thinks the will is, I would propose 
that most of those who oppose this 
amendment voted for the amendments 
that limited drive-through deliveries, 
that limited drive-through mastectomies, 
so they have already said that 
they believe that Congress should practice 
medicine. 
My colleagues cannot claim both 
sides of this issue. Either they think it 

is a proper position for this government 
or this Congress to get involved 
in things that are wrong or they do 
not. 

Now my colleagues may not agree 
with the issue, but to use the false 
premise that we should not be discussing 
this is intellectually dishonest; 
it is inappropriate and misstates the 
situation. 

There is nothing in this amendment 
that will limit NCI’s research whatsoever 
into any cancer treatment, into 
any treatment whatsoever in any way. 
To claim otherwise is to distort the 
truth for purposes of debate and to not 
carry out an equitable and fair debate. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, may I 
inquire of the Chair the remaining 
time on both sides, please. 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentlewoman 
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) has 441/2 minutes 
remaining. The gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN) has 401/2 minutes 
remaining. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Chairman, I wish to state that, 
as I listened to the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN) and his desire 
to try to protect life, I think that his 
amendment and the words of his 
amendment, in fact, do not do that. So 
there is not a disagreement with the 
objective, but rather the means to get 
there. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to 
the distinguished gentleman from California 
(Mr. WAXMAN). 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. 
KAPTUR) very much for yielding to me 
this time. 

This bill does not provide taxpayers 
subsidies for abortion. This bill before 
us is an appropriation to fund the Food 
and Drug Administration. The Food 
and Drug Administration receives applications 
from those private industries 
that manufacture drugs who come 
to them and say we want to market our 
drug. But the law says we must apply 
to FDA to assure the public that the 
drug is safe and effective. The FDA 
then uses its scientific method to determine 
whether the drug ought to be 
sold as safe and effective. 

The Coburn amendment would prevent 
the FDA from using science. It 
would say to the FDA they may not approve 
a drug that is safe and effective 
because we are going to substitute a 
political judgment for what has been a 
scientific judgment under which the 
FDA has been mandated in carrying 
out its responsibilities. So what we are 
doing is preventing taxpayers’ funding 
of the Food and Drug Administration 
to determine whether a drug is safe and 
effective. 

Now, there is an interesting argument 
that the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. COBURN) makes, and I am 
sure he is sincere, that his amendment 
would only apply to a drug solely to be 
used for abortion purposes. But that is 

not what his amendment says. His 
amendment says that the FDA cannot 
use any of its funds for testing, development, 
or approval of any drug for the 
chemical inducement of abortion. Well, 
‘‘for the chemical inducement of abortion’’ 
may be a side effect of a drug 
that may be intended to cure cancer. It 
may be intended for some other purpose. 


Now abortion is legal. If abortion is 
legal, why should we not allow funds to 
be used by private enterprise to develop 
a drug that would lead to safer 
abortions, earlier, safer abortions? 

We have heard the story about the 
link of abortions with breast cancer. I 
have seen no evidence of that. But let 
us say that there is a drug that would 
allow a termination of a pregnancy 
without any additional risk that may 
now be out there for those who do decide 
to terminate a pregnancy. 

This amendment is a political 
amendment. It really is inappropriate 
in this legislation not to allow the 
FDA to do its job, which is to use 
science, to allow research based on 
science as the FDA considers whether a 
drug ought to be marketed to the 
American people. 

I would hope that we would oppose 
this amendment and let FDA do its job 
and allow a procedure that is legal to 
be done in the safest possible way. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I would like to respond to the gentleman 
from California (Mr. WAXMAN). 
Number one, the definition of ‘‘for’’ 
under the dictionary that we have in 
the House is with the object or purpose 
of. 

The gentleman refuses to address our 
issue. Our issue is that Federal dollars 
should not be used to enhance the taking 
of life. Now, his claim that he has 
no knowledge of the connection between 
breast cancer and abortion, I can 
take that. He probably had not read 
the studies. I have read every study. 
Having been trained in science and 
having read all studies associated with 
breast cancer and abortion, I think 
there is some legitimacy to it. I do not 
know how much there is, but I have 
read it at least. 

Number two is, for the gentleman to 
object that this is not a place for this 
debate, again it is not inappropriate, 
for we have an opportunity as Members 
of this House to put limitation amendments 
on appropriations bills. We may 
not like it, and I understand that, but 
it does not mean that it is inappropriate 
or wrong for us to do it. 

I also have the legislative history 
where my dear friend, the gentleman 
from California (Mr. WAXMAN), has 
been very effective in doing some of 
these same things in the past himself. 
So the use of a limitation amendment 
on an appropriation bill is both appropriate 
and within the rules of the 
House. 

So again I want to say this amendment 
will not, and I will take my colleagues 
to the application of the Food 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3803 

and Drug Administration, one has to 
list a purpose or indication for a drug 
when one applies. If that is something 
other than the inducement of abortion, 
then they can approve anything. The 
gentleman from California (Mr. WAXMAN) 
knows that. He knows what the 
forms say. He knows more about the 
Food and Drug Administration than 
anybody in this Congress. I understand 
that. But he also knows full well that 
this amendment will have its intended 
purpose, and that no drug whatsoever 
which has a purpose other than that 
will be limited in any way. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Chairman, will 
the gentleman yield to me? 

Mr. COBURN. I am happy to yield to 
the gentleman from California. 

Mr. WAXMAN. Mr. Chairman, I will 
insert for the RECORD a statement from 
the Food and Drug Administration 
where they say very clearly they do 
not read the gentleman’s amendment 
as he does. Their lawyers have said this 
will prevent them from dealing with 
any drug that is brought to them for 
approval that may have the consequence 
of terminating a pregnancy. 

But my view is, even if its original 
intended purpose is to terminate a 
pregnancy, if it is a safer way to do 
that, we may be saving lives as a result. 
We may be saving the life of the 
mother. 

Mr. COBURN. Reclaiming my time, 
let me give the gentleman from California 
some reasons why we have 
breast cancer associated with abnormal 
pregnancies. When a woman is pregnant, 
there is a large increase of both 
estrogen and progesterone. The abrupt 
termination of those, one has turn-on 
factors in the breast tissue which are 
not modulated in a normal cycle that 
the body knows how to do it. That is 
why we also see an increased risk of 
breast cancer in women who have late 
onset pregnancies. 

This is not something that is new to 
the medical community. This is something 
that we suspect, and now we are 
starting to see data for. I understand 
the gentleman’s opposition. I would 
say I would be happy to take an 
amendment from the gentleman from 
California (Mr. WAXMAN) that puts the 
word ‘‘solely’’ in there. I would happily 
agree to that. But I think his real objection 
is that we should not be doing 
this. But the point is I am happy to accept 
an amendment that will say solely 
for that, because, as a practicing physician, 
I know we sometimes get consequences 
that are ill-effective, and I 
have no intention of stopping it. 

The final point that I would make is 
the lawyers for the FDA ought to read 
the legislative history. This passed the 
House last year, and the history on it 
shows very much, we actually even had 
a ruling from the Chair which the gentleman 
from California (Mr. WAXMAN) 
had the point of order on, which said 
this would do that, and the Chair ruled 
it would not. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 minutes to 
the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. 
HOSTETTLER). 

(Mr. HOSTETTLER asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. HOSTETTLER. Mr. Chairman, I 
rise in strong support of this amendment 
from the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. COBURN). The Supreme 
Court has told us that we have to allow 
the killing of unborn children on demand. 
It has not, however, told us the 
government has an obligation to facilitate 
this service. 

This amendment would help ensure 
that American taxpayers do not end up 
funding the approval of drugs that are 
designed to kill our unborn children. 
FDA’s mission, as it was created by 
this very Congress, should be to approve 
drugs that save lives, not end 
lives. 

I would just hasten to add that Congress 
does have oversight responsibility 
with regard to all agencies of the 
Federal Government. It has been stated 
that Congress is sticking its nose into 
places it should not be. Well, if Congress 
should not be here now, then it is 
assumed that the proponents of that 
philosophy say that the Federal Government 
should not have been involved 
in the Food and Drug Administration’s 
creation. 

Secondly, there has been the point 
made with regard to the Supreme 
Court and the Supreme Court decision 
that has been made. Earlier today we 
heard an oath from a new Member that 
said he swore to support and defend the 
Constitution of the United States. He 
did not say anything about according 
to what the Supreme Court says that 
the Constitution says. 

Separation of powers says that the 
House of Representatives, the Congress, 
has the constitutional obligation 
to determine constitutional intent; and 
that is what the amendment of the 
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. 
COBURN) is doing right here, saying 
that it is Congress’ obligation to determine 
how the taxpayers’ money is 
spent. 

The point has also been made that 
Congress are not scientists. Well, there 
are several of us that happen to be scientists. 
We are not in the area with regard 
to medical science, but we have 
been told about other doctrines of 
science, other theories of science; and 
that is one of those old theories that 
we are asked to subscribe to today. 

b1515 
And that is that we are led to believe 
that if a child, if an individual is conceived, 
that 9 months later it turns 
into something that it was not. During 
the Dark Ages and shortly thereafter, 
that was a scientific theory that was 
subscribed to, called spontaneous generation, 
which said basically if rancid 
meat sat in the corner for 24 days, 
there will be flies there. So that meant 
that rancid meat ultimately turned 
into flies. 
Well, that is not the point here. The 
point is that a child at conception is a 
child at conception, it is a child 2 

months after conception, it is a child 9 
months after conception, and it is a 
child 2 years after it is born. 

We should not, as Members of this 
House, be asked to subscribe to a theory 
in science that was done away with 
hundreds of years ago by scientific 
knowledge at that time. Therefore, we 
are being asked to facilitate the FDA 
doing something safe and effective. If 
that child is a child at conception, and 
it does not automatically spontaneously 
generate into a child sometime 
later, then we are to make sure that 
drugs are safe and effective for children 
that are inside the womb as well and 
not be facilitating the destruction of 
that human life. 

Finally, I will say that there has 
been much said here about cancer survivorship, 
and I would be one that 
would say that I am pleased at the rate 
of survivorship of Members of this 
House, Members of this Chamber. My 
mother is a cancer survivor. However, 
my father had cancer and he is not a 
survivor of cancer. This weekend I am 
going to take part in a relay for life 
where those survivors of cancer are 
going to come and celebrate life. My 
father will not get to take part in that 
process this year because he is not a 
survivor of cancer, but I can tell my 
colleague this: that the way my father 
raised me is such that he would not 
take one innocent child’s life in order 
for him to survive cancer. 

And that is not what this amendment 
does. It says and I quote, ‘‘None of the 
funds made available in this act may 
be used by the Food and Drug Administration 
for the testing, development, or 
approval, including approval of production, 
manufacture or distribution, of 
any drug for the chemical inducement 
of abortion.’’ 

This amendment by the gentleman 
from Oklahoma simply deals with a 
phenomenon of the day, and that is 
RU486, an abortifacient, that is not 
being used to treat people and cure 
people of cancer as it could have my father. 
Let us remove all the veneer, let 
us remove all of the camouflage over 
this and tell the story as it is. The gentleman’s 
amendment will not stop one 
drop of research into saving people’s 
lives that have cancer. I wish that research 
would have happened a few 
years earlier, so that my father could 
have taken part in that relay for life 
this weekend. 

Let us do say a word for life today. 
Let us say that innocent preborn life is 
worth securing, is worth protecting 
and is at least worth not spending taxpayer 
dollars on to find a more efficient 
way to exterminate it. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Colorado (Ms. DEGETTE). 

Ms. DEGETTE. Mr. Chairman, I am 
frankly disturbed by the claims that 
are being made by the proponents of 
this amendment. The proponents of the 
amendment say that the drug cannot 
be used for the sole purpose of abortion 
or the primary purpose of abortion, but 


H3804 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

that is not what the text of the amendment 
says. What the text of the amendment 
says is none of the funds appropriated 
shall be used for the testing, 
development or approval of any drug 
for the chemical inducement of abortion. 
Those words are not in there. 

But there are more problems than 
that. The other problems are that 
there is no recognized definition by the 
FDA of the words ‘‘chemical,’’ ‘‘inducement,’’ 
or ‘‘abortion.’’ So nobody is filing 
applications with the FDA saying 
we want to use this research solely for 
the purpose of the chemical inducement 
of abortion. 

The truth is the way this amendment 
is written it would prevent research on 
many, many drugs which may have a 
side effect of causing abortion. And if 
my colleagues believe the last speaker, 
many people believe that that is appropriate. 
Many people believe that it is a 
worthwhile societal goal to have millions 
of cancer victims die in order to 
stop what may be abortions. That is 
unacceptable both from a human and a 
scientific standpoint. 

The truth is under this amendment 
we would be banning research of drugs 
which would cause miscarriages by 
treating cancer, hypertension, cirrhosis, 
rheumatoid arthritis, and even 
some vaccines. We cannot sacrifice scientific 
research into abortion, which is 
legal, or equally importantly into cancer 
and all these other things simply 
because of a political agenda. And that 
is what we are talking about here. We 
are talking about a political agenda. 

And the reason this amendment is 
written so broadly is because there are 
people who would ban drugs whose primary 
purpose is for other purposes, 
like cancer research, in order to stop 
abortion. And that is wrong. Defeat the 
amendment. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Maryland (Mrs. MORELLA). 

(Mrs. MORELLA asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Mrs. MORELLA. Mr. Chairman, I 
thank the gentlewoman for yielding me 
this time and I rise in strong opposition 
to this amendment which would 
restrict the FDA from its current system 
of research and testing of drugs 
that could eventually save lives. 

Reproductive health drugs should be 
subject to the FDA’s strict science-
based requirements which any drug 
must meet before approval can be 
granted, but this amendment would 
prevent the FDA from reviewing any 
drug that could possibly induce miscarriages 
as a side effect. 

Health research is threatened when 
we legislate decisions that should be 
left to medical researchers and doctors. 
Under current law, a company that 
wants to begin clinical trials on a new 
drug submits its application to the 
FDA for approval and, if the application 
has not been responded to within 
30 days, the company is free to move 
forward. With this amendment, no 

funds could be used to oversee or even 
disapprove of such tests. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentlewoman yield? 

Mrs. MORELLA. I yield to the gentleman 
from Oklahoma. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I would 
say to the gentlewoman that there is 
nothing in the legislative history or 
the ruling of the Chair from last year 
or the legal parameters that we have 
had that makes the gentlewoman’s 
statement a true statement. 

The fact is that all drugs whose sole 
purpose is something other than the 
chemical inducement of abortion have 
free reign at the FDA, and I thank the 
gentlewoman 

Mrs. MORELLA. Reclaiming my 
time, Mr. Chairman, the gentleman’s 
amendment, though, would say review 
of any drug that could possibly induce 
a miscarriage as a possible side effect. 

Well, now this amendment is opposed 
by such groups as the National Coalition 
for Cancer Research and the 
American Medical Association, and 
they believe very strongly, as we do, 
that attempting to legislate any drug’s 
approval or disapproval is inappropriate 
and that not only does it threaten 
the credibility of the drug approval 
process, but it would impede development 
of pharmaceuticals that may be 
used either as contraceptives or to 
treat diseases related to reproduction. 

As a matter of fact, it was during 
last year’s debate that drug companies 
stated that researchers and pharmaceutical 
companies would be less likely 
to invest in drugs that might cause 
miscarriages, and currently many 
drugs do have this side effect. 

So if disease- or condition-specific 
approval is dictated by legislative action, 
we are in big trouble. So I urge 
my colleagues to vote against this 
amendment. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 5 
minutes to the gentleman from Florida 
(Mr. WELDON), and I would note for the 
House that he is a medical doctor. 

Mr. WELDON of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
I thank the gentleman for yielding 
me this time, and as Yogi Berra 
said, ‘‘It’s like deja vu all over again.’’ 
We are having this argument now and 
it is the same set of arguments as we 
had last year when the Coburn amendment 
passed the House, I believe by a 
margin of 223 to 202. I would encourage 
all my colleagues to vote in support of 
the Coburn amendment. 

I believe very strongly that this is a 
very reasonable and prudent amendment. 
As has been very, very clearly 
stated by the gentleman from Oklahoma, 
when these pharmaceutical companies, 
medical schools, individuals 
put in these applications for new drug 
approval, they put down what its indication 
is. And the Coburn language is 
very specific. We had a ruling from the 
Chair on this issue last year. If the specific 
indication is to induce chemical 
abortion, under the provision of his 
amendment they will be barred from 
doing that. 

Now, I practiced internal medicine 
for 15 years prior to coming to the 
House. I still see patients occasionally 
on weekends. I have had the unfortunate 
experience of diagnosing people 
with cancer; indeed, the even more unfortunate 
experience of seeing many of 
my patients die. And I would not support 
any amendment that in any way 
would interfere with the new development 
and approval of drugs for the 
treatment of cancer. And I think it is 
very disingenuous for anybody to 
imply that this amendment would have 
that kind of an implication. This 
amendment is very, very clear in its 
language. It is very, very well targeted. 

I would also like to point out that 
what we are talking about today is 
very, very significant. The FDA has 
been around for years, and it has safeguarded 
the American people from the 
introduction of many potentially dangerous 
drugs. A great example of this is 
thalidomide, a drug that was introduced 
in Europe and produced terrible 
birth defects. But our American Food 
and Drug Administration never approved 
that drug and, thus, prevented 
millions of American babies from being 
born with such a type of malformation. 

The Food and Drug Administration 
has never had a drug application before 
it where the specific intent of the drug 
was to lead to the death of an unborn 
baby. Now, abortion, obviously, is a 
very controversial issue. Every time 
these issues come up, the arguments 
are very, very impassioned. And they 
should be because it is an issue of life 
and death. 

We all know that the baby in the 
womb has a beating heart. At 40 days it 
has detectable brain waves. Those are 
the criteria that I used to use when I 
practiced medicine to make a determination 
as to whether or not somebody 
was dead or alive. So this is a 
very, very significant issue. And to 
have the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
reviewing a drug and approving 
a drug where its intended purpose is to 
kill the unborn baby in the womb, I 
think, is very, very inappropriate. I 
think it is very, very appropriate for us 
to speak on this issue. So, therefore, I 
would encourage all of my colleagues 
to vote ‘‘yes’’ on the Coburn amendment. 


I just want to touch on one additional 
issue that has come up in the 
course of this debate, and that is the 
reported possible link between abortion 
and breast cancer. My colleagues, 
I have reviewed the studies on this 
issue and the studies are very, very 
compelling that there really is a link. 
The statement released by the NCI, I 
believe, is a very disingenuous statement. 
It really sincerely ignores the 
facts on this issue. 

If my colleagues actually take the 
time to read the studies, it is very, 
very bothersome to me that there are a 
lot of people within the cancer research 
community that are turning a blind 
eye to this issue. 

Now, finally, let me close by saying 
the President of the United States once 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3805 

said in a speech that he wanted to 
make abortion safe, legal and rare. 
There are lots of us who hold that 
abortion is never safe for the unborn 
baby in the womb, and I do not think 
anybody would argue with that. Some 
people may want to turn a blind eye to 
the humanity of that child in the 
womb, but it is never safe for the child 
in the womb. 

Might I also say that there has been 
absolutely no effort on the part of the 
administration to truly make abortion 
rare. Indeed, in trying to push through 
something like this, we are in many 
ways trying to facilitate abortion, trying 
to make it easier, make it more 
common. And I do not think we should 
be going in that direction. 

I applaud the gentleman for introducing 
this amendment, and I encourage 
everyone to support it. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I ask 
unanimous consent that I be allowed to 
manage the time of the gentlewoman 
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR). 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentlewoman 
from New York? 

There was no objection. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. BENTSEN). 

(Mr. BENTSEN asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BENTSEN. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in strong opposition to this amendment 
offered by the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN). 

The author of this amendment may, 
in fact, believe that it is narrowly 
drawn and will not affect other research 
that is being done, but I think 
his comments a few speakers ago, when 
the gentleman from California was 
talking, that he was willing to accept a 
clarifying amendment, indicates even a 
specter of doubt in his own mind that 
there may be a problem with this 
amendment. 

The fact is, even with the ruling of 
the Chair, this issue would not be decided 
by the Chair; it is ultimately decided 
across the street at the Supreme 
Court. 

b1530 
That is what is to happen if we go 
through with this type of amendment 
because it may address RU–486 today, 
but it will open the door for lawsuits to 
address other types of research tomorrow 
and it will not be decided in this 
body or in the other body, it will be decided 
in the courts. This is a very dangerous 
precedent-setting amendment 
that takes the Congress, in my opinion, 
down the wrong path where we do not 
want to go. 
The gentleman raised the issue of 
drive-through mastectomies and drive-
through deliveries, and, yes, voted for 
those. I do not know if the gentleman 
did or not. I think that is a dangerous 
position for us to take. But here we are 
going even further. And I think this 
amendment is so broadly drawn that it 

creates a serious problem, and I think 
the House ought to reject it. 

Our other colleague from Indiana 
talked about removing the veneer. 
Well, let us do remove the veneer. This 
is not just about RU–486. This is about 
chipping away once again at ‘‘Roe v. 
Wade’’ and getting this in front of the 
Supreme Court again and seeing if they 
can overturn a woman’s right to 
choose. That is what this is about. But 
in the wake of doing that, it creates a 
lot of damage in the research world. 

I hope my colleagues will oppose this 
poorly drafted amendment. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentlewoman from Connecticut 
(Mrs. JOHNSON) who is, I 
might say, in opposition to my amendment. 


Mrs. JOHNSON of Connecticut. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding to me, knowing that I oppose 
his amendment. And I do oppose his 
amendment very strongly. 

The law of the land is that abortion 
is legal, whether we like it or not. The 
law of the land and Supreme Court decisions 
have given women total control 
over the decision of whether they will 
get pregnant and carry a pregnancy 
during the first trimester. That right is 
compromised as the fetus grows and 
women have essentially no right to 
abortion except under extreme circumstances 
that are life-threatening 
toward the end of their pregnancy. 

Now, that is simply the law of the 
land. If my colleagues do not like it, 
bring a bill to ban abortion, and let us 
debate that on the floor as the representatives 
of the people. Let us see if 
America wants a policy that bans abortion. 


Italy has reversed their policy banning 
abortion because if we ban abortion, 
we just raise the number of 
women who die, who die getting illegal 
abortions. And we know that that was 
true in our history. 

When we first made abortions legal, 
the big change was not an increase in 
abortions, because there was not any 
increase in abortion. The big change 
was a radical, precipitous decline in 
maternal deaths. So, mark my words, 
this is about abortion. Women have a 
right to abortion and they have a right 
to a variety of safe, legal procedures. 
Women in Europe have had access to 
this method for 20 years. 

This is not about thalidomide. This is 
about something that women in Europe 
have used for 20 years. Our FDA has reviewed 
it on the basis of science. That 
is their job. And under that standard, 
they have found it to be an effective 
agent. And women have every bit as 
great a right in America to a pharmaceutical 
agent as they do to the surgical 
procedures. Why would men, in 
America particularly, want to make 
the decision for women that they have 
to go, in a sense, under the knife rather 
than taking a pharmaceutical pill? 

So this is, by gum, about a woman’s 
right to choose and the right to abortion 
in the very earliest months when 

even there may not have been any fertilization 
of the egg. This is not necessarily 
an abortive phase. It depends 
on what happened and what did not 
happen, which they do not know at the 
time they take it. It is a very big advance. 
And to deny it and stop it on the 
floor this way is to indicate that we 
will approach contraceptive research 
the same way and that we will narrow 
rigorously the options available to 
women to manage their reproductive 
capability and, with it, their health. 

I strongly oppose this amendment. 
This Congress should not be banning by 
procedure methods of abortion. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume to 
respond to the gentleman from Florida 
(Mr. WELDON) who I believe has left the 
floor. 

But he referred to this administration 
and said they have done nothing 
to make abortion rare. I would invite 
him and my other colleagues to join us 
in supporting our contraceptive coverage 
bill, because that is really the 
way we reduce the number of abortions. 
Having the Federal Employee 
Health Benefit Plan and other private 
insurance plans cover contraceptives 
will reduce the number of abortions, 
and the administration has been 
strongly supportive of that. 

Mr. Chairman, I am delighted to 
yield 2 minutes to my colleague, the 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. 
WOOLSEY). 

(Ms. WOOLSEY asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in strong opposition to the Coburn 
amendment. 

In my first term in the House of Representatives 
in 1993, during the Year of 
the Woman, with my good sisters and a 
good number of men, we fought here on 
the House floor so that the United 
States could have expanded healthy alternatives 
to surgical abortions. We 
supported research development and 
availability of drugs for medical abortions, 
like RU–486, in the United 
States. 

Since then, I have witnessed RU–486 
being made available in Europe, while 
here in our country in the United 
States, here in this Congress, we have 
had to fight back the far right’s constant 
blows against RU–486 and women’s 
health in general. 

I am saddened to say it, but this is 
the same attack by the conservatives 
as last year and the year before and the 
year before that. This amendment 
seeks to deny women the right to early 
and safe drugs, such as RU–486, when 
faced with a crisis pregnancy. Further, 
because it bans the Federal Drug Administration 
from approving drugs like 
RU–486, it represents an unprecedented 
threat to the FDA’s approval process. 

Let us make no mistake about it. 
These repeat attacks are an unwarranted 
intrusion on a woman’s life and 
a woman’s right to good health, and 
this attack is by the extreme right. Let 


H3806 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

us get the far right out of women’s 
health, get politics out of science, and 
allow the FDA to determine what 
drugs are safe for women. 

Once again, I urge my colleagues, 
vote against the Coburn amendment, 
vote for women and women’s health. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Washington State (Mr. 
MCDERMOTT). 

Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Chairman, I 
think, as a physician, I listen to this 
debate and it is very interesting to 
watch us practice medicine out here on 
the floor of the House of Representatives. 


It is pretty clear that if the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN) 
wanted to ban RU–486, that is what he 
would have put in this amendment. But 
it is very clear that this is not what 
the intention is. The intention is to get 
a law out there that they can then get 
involved in lawsuits. It is a very well-
known political strategy over the last 
10 years to start something and get involved 
in the courts and tie it up forever. 


Now, if they have pharmaceutical 
companies, and the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN) knows this, 
they screen all kinds of drugs. Right 
now, I heard thalidomide mentioned 
here on the floor. And it became a very 
bad drug because of its effects on newborn 
babies and causing defects. It is 
now being used for another illness. And 
when pharmaceutical companies 
screen, they do not know exactly what 
it is going to be used for. And what 
they are essentially doing here is opening 
the door for a lawsuit against the 
pharmaceutical company who comes to 
the FDA, having spent $20 or $40 or $100 
million developing a drug, and if somebody 
says, this causes abortion, therefore, 
we have a cause of action against 
them and we stop it, they are interfering 
in a process that is presently 
legal. 

A woman has a right to an abortion, 
and pharmaceutical companies have a 
right to develop drugs to do that in a 
very safe way. And for us to get into 
that position, the logical slope that 
they are headed down here, has already 
been mentioned. The next thing will 
be, when the sperm meets the egg, if 
that is a baby, then the next thing is 
going to be we must ban all birth control. 


We already have difficulty getting 
birth control paid for by the Federal 
Employees Health Benefit Program. 
And so we know what is in their minds. 
But beyond that, the next thing will be 
an amendment out here on maybe the 
HHS appropriation to prevent any 
money from being used for medical 
school training of any school that 
trains anybody to do abortions. Because 
if we go back and back and back 
up the stream, why should we waste 
money training physicians, obstetricians, 
in the skill of doing a safe abortion? 
We should not because they are 
ending the life of a child, and we get 
into all this inflammatory rhetoric. 

Now, everybody knows that is wrong. 
And this amendment is just the beginning 
of it. It is designed to do that and 
it is designed to hide what it is up to. 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I am 
pleased to yield 21/2 minutes to my colleague, 
the gentlewoman from New 
York (Mrs. MALONEY). 

Mrs. MALONEY of New York. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank the gentlewoman 
for yielding me the time for her leadership 
on this issue. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition. 
This is an antichoice, an antiscience 
science amendment. It is not just 
about RU–486. It is about FDA’s ability 
to test, research, and approve any drug 
based on sound scientific evidence 
which may have as a side effect a miscarriage. 
It could slow or stop research 
on a wide range of life-saving drugs. 

Science, not politics, should determine 
what drugs are approved. This is 
why the National Coalition for Cancer 
Research, the American Medical 
Assocation, the American Public 
Health Association, among others, oppose 
this amendment. 

Many drugs, including chemotherapy 
and antiulcer medication, have the side 
effects of inducing abortion. This is 
why pregnant women are advised 
against taking certain medications. 

One of the drugs targeted by this 
amendment, mefipristone, is not just a 
drug to make abortion safer. It has 
also shown to be useful in treating 
uterine fibrosis, endometriosis, glaucoma, 
and certain breast cancer tumors. 


Another drug targeted by this 
amendment, methotrexate, has also 
been used to treat a wide array of conditions 
including arthritis, lupus, and 
some forms of cancerous tumors. 
Blocking research and development of 
safe and effective drugs in the name of 
abortion politics is just plain wrong. 
Never before has Congress told the 
FDA to approve or disapprove of a particular 
drug. 

This vote is the 108th antichoice vote 
before this Congress since the new majority 
came to power. We should not be 
attempting to appeal or repeal a woman’s 
right to choose procedure by procedure. 
This is antiscience, antichoice, 
antiwoman. I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, might I 
inquire of the time remaining? 

The CHAIRMAN. The gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN) has 231/2 
minutes remaining. The gentlewoman 
from New York (Mrs. LOWEY) has 27 
minutes remaining. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from South 
Carolina (Mr. DEMINT). 

b1545 

Mr. DEMINT. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
support of this amendment, because I 
think it is important for this Congress 
to change the culture of this country 
by renewing our commitment to the 
value of life. This is not the time to 
send a signal to all Americans that 
abortions of convenience are a way to 

solve the problem of promiscuity and 
recreational sex. It is a hoax on the 
American people and women, in particular, 
to suggest that this is a 
healthy way to handle an unwanted 
pregnancy. We must not send the signal 
that it is easy as a pill to end an 
unwanted pregnancy. 

This is one of the most important 
issues facing our country today, because 
as we look around at the violence 
and the apparent disregard for life in 
every walk of life, we have got to question 
if this type of ease in ending life is 
contributing to that. This amendment 
will do what it needs to do in stopping 
the approval of a way of life in America, 
in restoring value to life to all ages 
in America. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I ask 
unanimous consent to reclaim my 
time. 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
to the request of the gentlewoman 
from Ohio? 

There was no objection. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
3 minutes to the very distinguished 
gentlewoman from the District of Columbia 
(Ms. NORTON). 

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the gentlewoman from Ohio for yielding 
me this time, because I would like 
to devote my time to why I think there 
is confusion about this amendment. 
The gentleman may be a doctor, but in 
drawing his amendment it is clear that 
he is not a lawyer. He says he has 
drawn an amendment to stop the FDA 
from approving RU–486. The language 
he has used instructs us on an amendment 
to stop the FDA from testing 
drugs that can treat cancer, high blood 
pressure, ectopic pregnancy, fibroids, 
epilepsy. The list is very long. The reason 
is that although the gentleman 
mysteriously says that he would accept 
an amendment to limit the language, 
he does not propose language of that 
kind. Why has he brought broad language 
here? 

The reason that his language is defective 
is that, in the law, it is over-
inclusive and overbroad. Therefore, in 
the words he used, it must have unintended 
effects. In the law it is called a 
chilling effect. What that means in this 
case is that a pharmaceutical company 
will not come forward with a drug that 
may cure cancer because that company 
believes it may be sued because of the 
overinclusive language he has used. It 
ought to stop every Member in this 
body when they know that every chemotherapy 
drug can cause a miscarriage. 
If, in fact, this amendment had been in 
the law at the time these drugs were 
being produced, people who are alive 
today by the hundreds of thousands 
would be dead. 

I ask you, how many people would be 
dead today if we consider how many 
drugs are on the market that have unintended 
effects that none of us could 
possibly approve, deadly effects? That 
is why politics and medicine, or politics 
and science are like oil and water. 
You get into politicians overreaching 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3807 

when you insert political judgments 
into what should be only scientific 
matters. 

Nor is this one of those great ethical 
issues on the frontiers of science, 
where ethicists and politicians have 
some reason to intrude, because abortion 
is legal, and I regret to say that 
miscarriages are also legal. We are entitled 
to ask, where does it begin, 
where will it end? I believe we must 
today let it end with legitimate scientific 
research. If we care anything 
about the many drugs that will be 
stopped by this amendment, we must 
defeat the Coburn amendment. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
1 minute to the distinguished gentleman 
from Washington (Mr. 
MCDERMOTT). 

Mr. MCDERMOTT. Mr. Chairman, in 
the earlier debate I did not say something 
that I think needs to be said out 
here. We hear all these polls, that the 
American people do not like abortion 
and all this stuff. But I would tell you, 
in the election of 1998 in the State of 
Washington, the issue of partial-birth 
abortion was on the ballot, and the 
people turned it down. 

Now, you can tell me all you want 
about polls but the only poll that really 
matters is when people actually 
come out and vote. I believe that the 
gentlewoman from the District of Columbia 
(Ms. NORTON) has really put her 
finger on the whole issue. Because if 
you open up a cause of action against 
every pharmaceutical company that 
brings anything to the market or to 
the FDA for approval that might cause 
an abortion, you are going to chill the 
pharmaceutical industry, which is exactly 
the reverse of what I see in the 
appropriations process. We put all this 
money into the National Institutes of 
Health because we treasure our health 
care system, including the pharmaceutical 
industry. It is a bad amendment. 


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
2 minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from New York (Mr. NADLER). 

(Mr. NADLER asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
today in strong opposition to this 
amendment. This amendment would 
ban FDA approval of RU–486 which has 
been found safe and effective for early, 
nonsurgical abortion and is awaiting 
final approval by the FDA. RU–486 
would expand access to safe abortion 
for American women. Its consideration 
for approval should be dependent on 
the science, not dictated by antichoice 
ideologues. 

This debate is not about RU–486 or 
abortion. It is about the FDA’s ability 
to test, research, and approve any 
drugs for a legal purpose based on 
sound scientific evidence. Reproductive 
health drugs should be subject to the 
FDA’s strict science-based requirements 
that any drug must meet before 
approval can be granted, but they 
should not be singled out because they 
are reproductive health drugs. 

The FDA found mifepristone which 
has been available in Europe widely for 
nearly 20 years, safe and effective for 
early medical abortion 3 years ago. The 
approval was based on extensive clinical 
trials in this country and in 
France. They await information on 
manufacturing and labeling of the drug 
before final approval can be issued. 

This amendment could have dangerous 
implications for the development 
of drugs that are used for purposes 
other than terminating a pregnancy. 
Many drugs, including those for 
chemotherapy and antiulcer medication, 
have the side effect of inducing an 
abortion. That is why pregnant women 
are advised that taking such a medication 
could imperil their pregnancy. 
New developments in the treatment of 
these and other conditions, for cancer 
and for other conditions, would be prohibited 
under the broad scope of this 
amendment. New contraceptive development 
would also be targeted. 

Mr. Chairman, the right to abortion 
services should be safe and legal. The 
Supreme Court grants this right. What 
this amendment would do, even at the 
price of letting people who otherwise 
would not have to die from cancer, die 
from cancer because it would prevent 
the development, the approval of certain 
chemotherapies, what this would 
do is to deny the FDA the right to approve 
a drug simply because it would 
do what is legal and is a guaranteed 
right and that, Mr. Chairman, is wrong. 
That is why the amendment should be 
rejected. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

We have heard again the tactic from 
the other side, it is to misdirect, to 
dodge. This is not about creating lawsuits. 
This is not about preventing drug 
research in other areas. This amendment 
is written very clearly. I would 
happily have taken an amendment 
from the gentleman from California 
(Mr. WAXMAN) because then I would 
have felt he would have been obligated 
to vote for the amendment, and that is 
why he would not offer it. We understand 
that. 

This is about spending Federal 
money in a way to figure out how to 
kill unborn children. That is what this 
amendment is about. There is no ulterior 
motive to it. It is saying, is it a 
principle position of this country to 
tax working families and then take 
that money and spend it on science on 
how to figure out how to kill an unborn 
baby. That is what this amendment 
does. They know that is what it does. 
The only thing that we are hearing is 
that this will limit cancer research, 
this will make unintended consequences. 
That is not true at all. Having 
been in the drug manufacturing 
business, having applied for NDAs and 
INDs, I understand full well how the 
FDA works. There is an area on the application. 
You have to specify what 
you are applying that drug for. If it is 
for anything other than the inducement 
of abortion, this law will have no 
effect. 

The other side understands that but 
they do not have an argument against 
that, so, therefore, they use an argument 
that is not based on any intellectual 
honesty. It is based on a dishonest 
pass out of bounds. This is about, and I 
am not ashamed to say, I do not think 
one dollar of Federal taxpayer money 
should be used to figure out how to kill 
an unborn child. I have no embarrassment 
for that whatsoever. I am proud 
to make that statement. 

If we look at what is going on in our 
country, we understand where violence 
comes from. The first act of violence is 
to violate a baby in its mother’s womb. 
When we decide that that life has no 
value, then no life has value, regardless 
of what the Supreme Court said. At 19 
days postconception, a baby has a 
heartbeat. At 41 days postconception, 
the baby has brain waves. In this country, 
in every State, in every territory 
you are alive if you have brain waves 
and a heartbeat, and you are only dead 
if you do not. So explain to me why a 
baby at 51/2 weeks postconception is not 
considered alive when if you are considered 
the opposite of that, you are 
considered dead. We are schizophrenic 
in our law because we cannot have 
equal justice under the law for the unborn 
when we want the convenience of 
doing what we in fact know is wrong. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to 
the honorable gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. HYDE), the chairman of the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 

Mr. HYDE. Mr. Chairman, I want to 
congratulate the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. COBURN) for making a necessary 
stand for life and against the 
culture of death. The question is about 
abortion. It is a shame that in discussing 
this life-and-death issue, the 
forces of prolife are demonized as 
antichoice ideologues. 

One good thing that has come from 
this debate has been the use of the 
word ‘‘abortion.’’ You are getting 
away, however slowly, from the euphemism 
of ‘‘choice,’’ because, of course, 
there is no choice for the unborn whatsoever. 
The question is, should Federal 
funds be used to pay for learning how 
to make chemical warfare on a defenseless, 
unborn child? You relegate that 
child to nothingness because you do 
not consider the well-being of the 
child. You only consider the woman 
who for one reason or another wants an 
abortion, and that is a tragedy. But life 
is precious. And once it has begun, that 
life ought to be protected. 

Now, yes, abortion is legal. More is 
the pity. What a shame on this country’s 
conscience. But the policy of this 
government and this Congress has been 
not to coerce money from working people 
to pay for the extermination of a 
human life once it has begun. Those 
people arguing against the gentleman 
from Oklahoma are all for abortion. 
They think that is a good thing. God 
bless them for thinking so. I think it is 
a horrible thing. I think it is morally 
wrong. I do not think people ought to 
be coerced into supporting it because it 


H3808 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

is morally wrong. I hope Members will 
support the Coburn amendment as I do. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
3 minutes to the very distinguished 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. 
PELOSI). 

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I thank 
the distinguished ranking member of 
the committee for yielding me this 
time and for her great service on the 
Subcommittee on Agriculture. 

Mr. Chairman, I want to respond to 
some of the comments made by the distinguished 
gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. HYDE), and distinguished and respected 
he is. He talked about the 
chemical warfare that we would be 
waging on the unborn. But I want to 
point out to my colleagues that the 
Hyde amendment allows for termination 
of a pregnancy in cases of rape, 
incest and life of the mother. If this is 
indeed the Hyde amendment and what 
the gentleman from Illinois believes 
and those who support the Hyde 
amendment, then why would they not 
want to have women have access to 
safe, early, nonsurgical abortion? 

b1600 
I certainly respect the gentleman’s 
religious beliefs and understand them, 
as a Catholic, myself, and mother of 
five, grandmother of four, and that we 
do not think abortion is a good thing. 
Abortion is a failure, it is a failure 
across the board. But to deprive the 
FDA of the opportunity to engage in 
research which would provide safe, 
nonsurgical terminations of pregnancy 
in case of rape, incest and life of the 
mother seems entirely contradictory to 
what the amendment offered by the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. HYDE) is, 
if he sincerely believes in that, and I do 
believe he is sincere. It would trample 
on the FDA’s ability to test, research 
and approve drugs based on sound scientific 
evidence, and in that respect 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN) is 
starting to have this body, this room, 
this Chamber, look like the Flat Earth 
Society again, Mr. Chairman. 
We have our Flat Earth Society days 
around here, and this appears to be one 
of them. RU–486 has been available to 
women in Europe for nearly 20 years. 
After extensive clinical trials in this 
country and France, the FDA has determined 
that this drug is safe and effective 
for an early medical abortion 
such as the kind allowed under the 
Hyde amendment for rape, incest and 
the life of the mother. 
But this amendment is not about access 
to one safe and effective drug. The 
Coburn amendment would have a dangerous 
chilling effect on the development 
of drugs that are used for a wide 
variety of purposes, Mr. Chairman. 
Drugs used to treat other conditions 
including cancers and ulcers can induce 
abortion. The FDA’s ability to consider 
approval of these therapies would be 
abolished. 
And RU–486 also has promise for 
other potential medical uses including 

treatments for breast cancer, HIV and 
burns. The Coburn amendment forces 
researchers to turn away from these 
promising treatment opportunities. 

Mr. Chairman, the Coburn amendment 
puts a social agenda ahead of a 
woman’s needs, ahead of needs of individuals 
confronting a variety of diseases, 
ahead of rulemaking authority 
of the FDA. Once again, this Congress 
must decide whether to put political 
agendas ahead of health research. 

Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues 
to oppose the Coburn amendment. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I wonder if the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. PELOSI) might stand 
and take a question? Might I inquire, 
and I would be happy to yield her to 
answer, what part of my amendment 
would eliminate RU–486 from being 
used in breast cancer research, burns 
or any other portion? 

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. COBURN. I yield to the gentlewoman 
from California. 

Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Chairman, I say the 
gentleman’s amendment would have a 
chilling effect on the research. Medical 
research thrives, we have free and open 
inquiry. 

Mr. COBURN. Reclaiming my time, 
there is nothing in the amendment 
that will have such an effect. 

Again, we are seeing an attempt at 
characterizing the amendment in 
something other than it is. I understand 
why, because there is not a good 
factual argument against the Federal 
Government taking taxpayer dollars to 
figure out how to kill children. It is another 
part of the problem that we find 
ourselves in our society today. 

There is nothing in this amendment 
that will limit in any way what the 
FDA can do if a drug manufacturer 
comes and uses, says I want to take 486 
and get an indication for it for burns 
and breast cancer treatment; there is 
nothing in this amendment that will 
limit them from it. All they have to do 
is say that is what we are going to do 
with it. 

And if they want to then let a doctor 
use it in an unapproved way, that is up 
to them. But to approve a drug for the 
very purpose of taking life goes against 
everything our country is founded on: 
the pursuit of life. And we are pursuing 
ways to take life. 

Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
3 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
Texas (Ms. JACKSON-LEE), a distinguished 
Member. 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank the gentlewoman 
from Ohio. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman 
from Virginia (Mr. MORAN). 

Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, 
I wonder if the gentleman from 
Oklahoma is aware that NIH is currently 
looking at RU–486 as potentially 
a very effective method of addressing 

both breast cancer and brain tumors. 
They feel that there is a substantial 
potential with RU–486. That ability to 
research the capability of RU–486 
would be completely terminated under 
this legislation. 

So my colleague’s suggestion is inconsistent 
with the facts. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, will the 
gentlewoman yield? 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. I yield 
to the gentleman from Oklahoma. 

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, there is 
nothing in this amendment that will 
keep a drug manufacturer or the manufacturer 
of RU–486 from making an application 
to use that drug in any way 
they want except the chemical inducement 
of abortion. That is a fact. 

Mr. MORAN of Virginia. The lawyers’ 
opinion is quite different, but I think 
we will make that point subsequently 
on the record. 

Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas. Mr. 
Chairman, I thank the gentleman from 
Virginia, and I would like to pick up 
where the gentleman left off, particularly 
acknowledge the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN), that none of 
us rise to the floor of the House to 
challenge any of the beliefs, and I know 
the very sincere beliefs held by you and 
many who oppose the women’s right to 
choose along with my respected colleague 
on the Committee on the Judiciary. 


But if I might share with those who 
are listening, the language of this 
amendment, which indicates that none 
of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this act may be used 
by the Food and Drug Administration 
for testing, development or approval 
including approval of production, manufacturing 
or distribution of any drug 
for the chemical inducement of abortion. 
It may sound narrowly focused, 
but if I may draw the gentleman’s attention 
to the fact that chemotherapy 
drugs can cause a miscarriage, most of 
these drugs would not have been developed 
and future drugs may be jeopardized 
just by the broadness of the language. 


I rise today in opposition to the Coburn 
Amendment that would limit FDA testing on 
the drug mifepristone or RU–486. This amendment, 
as drafted, would limit FDA testing on 
any drug that might induce miscarriage, including 
drugs that treat cancer, ulcers and 
rheumatoid arthritis. 

The FDA is charged with determining 
whether a drug is safe and effective. 
Mifepristone satisfied that requirement in 1996 
based on clinical trials and it is expected to receive 
final approval soon. 

Mifepristione was developed as a drug that 
induces chemical miscarriage. It has other potential 
use in treating conditions such as infertility, 
ectopic pregnancy, endometriosis, uterine 
fibroids and breast cancer. 

For example, chemotherapy drugs can 
cause miscarriage. Most of these drugs would 
have not been developed, and future drugs 
may be jeopardized. Research of potential 
treatments for each of these conditions is crucial 
to women’s health. Controversy concerning 
this particular drug should not be a 
barrier to treatment. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3809 

Science should dictate what drugs are approved 
by the FDA, not politics. Congress has 
never instructed the FDA to approve or disapprove 
a drug. The FDA protocol for drug approval 
depends upon rigorous and objective 
scientific evaluation of a drug’s safety. Ultimately, 
this is a decision that should be made 
by the researchers and doctors. 

This amendment could jeopardize the integrity 
of the FDA approval process. Under this 
process, a company that wants to begin clinical 
trials on a new drug must submit an application 
for FDA approval. If that application has 
not been approved within 30 days, the company 
may move forward. 

This amendment would prevent the FDA 
from reviewing any application for a drug that 
might induce miscarriage. No funds would be 
available for the FDA to even oversee any 
trials. 

Therefore, I urge my Colleagues to oppose 
this amendment. We cannot afford to inhibit 
research on certain health conditions based 
upon the controversy of the particular drug. 
We also cannot allow the FDA to be limited in 
its ability to approve drugs based on politics. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

It is very clear that we have a difference 
of philosophy and maybe religious 
beliefs. I happen to think that I 
am a person who believes in life and 
that I support the right to life. I also 
support the right-to-life decision-making 
being that of the woman, her God 
and her family, and what we are doing 
here is to now just intrude into the 
very infrastructure of government to 
be able to say that not even our Food 
and Drug Administration, which has 
the main responsibility of dealing with 
the drugs that Americans take to heal 
themselves, now we are suggesting that 
even the most benign of drugs that 
may ultimately cause or induce a miscarriage, 
we now are prohibiting 
women, we are prohibiting those who 
have ulcers, those who have breast cancer, 
from even getting that fair treatment 
by the FDA doing that right kind 
of testing. 

This interferes with the 30-day process 
that the Food and Drug Administration 
has for any new drug that, if 
they do not comment on it, the manufacturer 
can move forward. I think it is 
tragic when we as a government globally 
decide to interfere with the private 
rights of a woman and deny the 
good testing of a drug that may save 
lives. 

I believe in life. I want to save lives. 
This amendment should be defeated. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to 
the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
WEINER). 

Mr. WEINER. I appreciate the opportunity, 
Mr. Chairman, to speak on this 
amendment. 

As my colleagues know, I think the 
amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Oklahoma is fraught with two 
fundamental problems. One is a philosophical 
inconsistency. I have come, in 
my brief time here, to view Mr. COBURN 
as a consistent, conservative voice in 
this Congress, something that he 
should be proud of perhaps. 

Yet by the same token we have an 
amendment here that is so counter to 
that philosophy that we here in this 
Chamber are now going to wade into 
the operations of doctors and physicians 
and clinical experts to decide 
how to interpret the word ‘‘for,’’ because 
that is what this comes down to. 
How Mr. COBURN interprets the word 
‘‘for’’ is very narrowly. It says it is 
only RU–486. 

The American Medical Association, 
the American College, American College 
of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, 
the American Medical Women’s 
Association and others interpret it 
is that a whole litany of research will 
now be off the table because that word 
‘‘for’’ is ambiguous, and that is the second 
problem with this bill. It is intellectually 
ambiguous. 

It is difficult to determine when research 
begins what the outcome might 
be. It is difficult for scientists sometimes 
to know when they are doing research 
on figuring out how to put a 
shuttle into space, that they might get 
technology that produces something 
far different. 

The same is true here, that the problem 
with this amendment is, it is crafted 
in such a way that the gentleman 
says it is to simply stop RU–486 except 
if RU–486 turns out to cure cancer, then 
it is okay. 

Mr. Speaker, that is not a way for us 
to be operating in this Chamber. This 
is a very dangerous amendment. 

I understand the argument that the 
gentleman is making about abortion. I 
disagree with it with every ounce of 
my strength, but I understand that. 
The problem is with this amendment is 
it conceivably opens the door to prohibitions 
about all kinds of other types 
of research. 

It is simply not the type of business 
we should be doing here, and it is not 
the type of business that anyone that 
considers themselves in this body a 
conservative and is intellectually honest 
in that position should be taking. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from 
New York (Mrs. LOWEY). 

Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, as we 
close this debate, I would like to address 
some remarks again to my good 
friend, the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. COBURN) because I respect his 
point of view. We may differ on this 
issue, but I certainly respect his point 
of view. 

As a mother and grandmother of 
four-and-a-half, I have to tell my colleague 
after 10 years of serving in this 
body I am so tired of debating abortion 
on the floor of the House, restriction 
after restriction, ban after ban, amendment 
after amendment. If we really 
want to reduce the number of abortions, 
please work with us to increase 
funds for family planning. Work with 
us to ensure that women have access to 
prescription contraceptives. 

I have been working to prevent unintended 
pregnancies, reduce the numbers 
of abortions. We need to make 

abortions less necessary, not more dangerous, 
and I am sorry that this 
amendment is being offered to an otherwise 
outstanding bill. 

The amendment was offered last 
year. Although it passed the House 
narrowly, it faced a veto threat from 
the administration, rejected by the 
Senate members of the agriculture appropriations 
conference committee, 
and strong opposition from medical 
groups, patient advocacy organizations 
and the biomedical community. It was 
wisely stripped out of the final version 
of the bill signed by the President. 

The amendment faces the same widespread 
opposition today, but I hope 
that this year my colleagues will send 
this amendment to the defeat it frankly 
deserves right here in the House 
floor. 

Mr. Chairman, Congress should not 
inject politics into the FDA’s drug approval 
process. This amendment ignores 
sound science, it puts women’s 
health in jeopardy, and it should be defeated. 


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
2 minutes to the gentleman from Virginia 
(Mr. MORAN). 

Mr. MORAN of Virginia. Mr. Chairman, 
I thank the distinguished ranking 
member of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and 
Drug Administration, and Related 
Agencies. 

The prior gentlewoman from New 
York was so right. We spend an enormous 
amount of our time in this body 
trying to restrict women’s access to 
the best and safest reproductive health 
care. If we can channel this energy into 
more productive activities, maybe we 
can find more money for the women 
and infant care program or even help 
to prevent more of the unplanned pregnancies 
that are the cause of this problem. 
None of us want to support abortion, 
and hopefully all of us want to 
create an environment where there will 
be far fewer abortions. 

But what we are talking about today 
is really the political practice of medicine, 
and this amendment should be opposed. 
The drug mifepristone known as 
RU–486 has been proven a safe and effective 
method through clinical trials. 

We now know that there are researchers 
at the National Institutes for 
Health that believe that RU–486 could 
be a very effective drug in treating 
breast cancer, in treating brain tumors, 
and yet this amendment would 
preclude that kind of research from 
being conducted because as part of the 
FDA approval process, drug trials can 
proceed only if the FDA does not disapprove 
of a trial. If the FDA is prohibited 
from reviewing applications under 
the Coburn amendment, research may 
be conducted without the safety of review 
and oversight of the FDA. So 
women would be asked to participate 
in trials with no review of the safety of 
the protocol. 

So that is not going to happen, and 
as a result, we may be precluding very 
important advances in medicine. But 


H3810 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

we also are told by the lawyers that 
there is, and I accept the fact it is unintentional, 
but it is a very important 
side effect because there are many 
drugs whose principal purpose may not 
be abortion, but in fact, are effective in 
chemotherapy, cancer treatments, hypertension, 
cirrhosis, rheumatoid arthritis, 
ectopic pregnancies, ulcers, 
epilepsy, severe viral infections, all 
kinds of drugs that may have a corollary 
effect of inducing abortion. 

Those drugs are important. We 
should be supporting them. We should 
not be engaged in the political practice 
of medicine. I urge rejection of this 
amendment. 

b1615 
Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 
Mr. Chairman, I would say to my 
friend from Ohio and the gentleman 
from Virginia and the gentlewoman 
from New York this is not a fun debate 
for me either. I am not happy that we 
are here doing this. But, you know, if 
one child is not aborted because we 
have this debate, I am willing to do it 
all night long, 365 days a year. That is 
how much I value life. 
Now, I want to discuss for a minute, 
you say we should not be politicizing 
the FDA with this action. Well, I want 
to tell you, the FDA is already politicized. 
How many drugs do you know of 
that have been approved of basically on 
research done overseas? There is zero, 
except one. Guess what drug that is? 
Guess what drug that is? That is RU– 
486. 
The vast majority of the studies on 
RU–486 were not conducted in this 
country; they were conducted overseas. 
That totally is a whole new precedent 
for the FDA. They have never before 
done that on any new drug approval. 
The second thing I would say is this 
amendment will have no effect whatsoever 
on any other utilization of any 
other drug. Cytotec, which is the second 
drug used with RU–486, is used to 
protect the lining of the stomach. It is 
a prostaglandin inhibitor. We use 
prostaglandins today. We are actually 
starting to use Cytotec, a very strong 
component of this, to induce labor. I 
did it about a week ago, first time. 
So we did not learn that from it 
being studied on the basis of it being 
an abortifacient or a drug to induce 
abortion. We learned that because that 
drug was developed to protect the lining 
of the stomach for people who have 
ulcers, consequently learning that you 
do not dare take that drug if you are 
pregnant. 
Well, if it works in terms of causing 
uterine contractions, what about using 
it to induce labor? Maybe it is safer 
than pitocin or other prostaglandins. 
So there is no limitation that is going 
to come about from this amendment. 
Five percent of the women who take 
this drug get a uterine infection, 
which, when you have a uterine infection, 
number one, it will affect your 
ability to conceive in the future. One 

hundred percent of the women lose 
more blood with a chemically induced 
abortion than they would either 
through a spontaneous or a surgical 
abortion. It may not be important to 
you, but if it is you losing the blood, it 
becomes very important. 

Number three, more than one-third 
of them end up delivering the 
conceptus outside of the clinic. In 
France, they have very selected rules 
on how you can use this drug. None of 
those are protected and planned in this 
country. 

So is the issue all of the things that 
we have heard: Not being able to use 
research? Not being able to get cancer 
drugs? No, it is not. The issue is nobody 
from the opposing viewpoint, either 
from the Republican or Democrat 
side of the aisle, answered the question, 
should Federal money be used to 
help find ways to kill babies? Nobody 
wants to answer that question. That is 
because there is not a good answer. Nobody 
agrees with it. So, therefore, we 
see arguments that are something 
other than that. We distort what the 
argument is because there is not a good 
argument. 

We will not limit in any way the ability 
of the FDA to do any research. 
What we will say is, is if your number 
one goal is to figure out how to kill an 
unborn baby, number one, first of all, 
this does not work in 2 days or 3 days 
or 5 days or 6 days postconception. I 
am sorry if that is what people think. 
This works 4 and 5 and 6 and 7 and 8 
weeks after. It is not a morning-after 
drug. That is now how it is going to be 
used. 

What this is going to do is say if you 
are intending to bring a drug to the 
market, then the FDA should not spend 
the first Federal taxpayer’s money to 
figure out how to kill a baby. All right, 
if that is a consequence of it, of some 
other intended purpose, maybe that is 
okay. Because these drugs, Cytotec is 
going to be used for that. You do not 
have to have approval of the FDA to 
use drugs in ways other than how they 
are indicated. We all know that. 

So Cytotec is already being used to 
induce abortions. The point is should 
we spend the money, your children’s, 
your grandchildren’s, our community’s 
money, to figure out how to take a 
life? My answer is no. I ask you, should 
we really do that? I do not believe most 
people think we should. 

That does not say that abortion still 
is not legal. It is. The question comes, 
when you have done, as I have, and sat 
there at the bottom of a table when a 
woman delivers a 10-week fetus or a 12week 
fetus, and hold it in your hand, 
and she is distraught and crying because 
that baby was created by her and 
her partner, and is totally unique to 
anything else that has ever been created 
or ever will be created. It has a totally 
unique genetic structure, it is a 
God-ordained being, and we are going 
to say it is okay, we are going to figure 
out ways to kill those God-ordained 
beings, and we are going to say for con


venience sake, because we made a mistake, 
because somebody erred, because 
somebody failed to protect themselves, 
that it is okay to destroy that life, I 
reject it. I do not dislike anybody who 
disagrees with me on that, but I reject 
that as an argument of the heart and of 
the soul. 

If we are going to decide in this country 
that you are dead when you do not 
have heartbeat and brain waves, but 
you are alive in all 50 States and territories 
when you do, how can we reject 
the argument that at 41 days every 
fetus, every unborn child, has a heartbeat 
and a brain wave? Now, you cannot 
deny that scientific fact. That is 
absolutely proven. So the response to 
that question is ‘‘we will talk about 
something different.’’ 

It is a hard issue, I understand. I wish 
we did not have unintended pregnancy. 
The gentlewoman from New York (Mrs. 
LOWEY) and I have the same goal on 
that. We believe in getting there a different 
way. I am not supporting some 
of her contraceptive research, because I 
am seeing what is happening with contraceptives 
and sexually transmitted 
disease and cancer of the cervix, which 
is at an all-time high in this country, 
under the false assumption you are 
safe, when a condom offers no protection 
from human papilloma virus whatsoever, 
yet we tell all our kids they are 
safe. 

Well, I am tired of all the deceit 
around the arguments. There is good 
science. I am a scientist by training. I 
have read the studies. I have looked at 
it. This amendment is designed for one 
thing only. 

The gentleman from Washington 
State gave me more credit. I have 
never thought out about to figure out 
how to be devious enough to set up 
lawsuits. My purpose was to say no 
taxpayer money from Oklahoma or 
anywhere else ought to be used in figuring 
out how to kill children. 

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume to 
close at this point. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
the gentleman’s amendment for many 
of the reasons that were stated earlier. 
The first one is that I do not think that 
this Congress should be prejudging 
medical science. We have talked this 
afternoon about how scientific discoveries 
and how science proceeds, often 
with unintended consequences. We 
have talked about how many of the 
drugs currently being used to treat 
mental illness in this country were discovered 
by accident. 

They were not discovered in this 
country, they were discovered in 
France. They were discovered during 
operating room procedures when patients 
were trying to be put at ease and 
the process of pain remediated during 
operations, and, all of a sudden, for 
some reason, certain drugs worked. 
Eventually they came to this country, 
and even today we do not understand 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3811 

why they work to help patients with 
serious mental illness. But for some in 
our population, they have been able to 
be given great relief and help through 
those drugs. 

The same was talked about with x-
rays. When the scientists invented x-
rays, it was an accident. They really 
went in there with one objective, and, 
all of a sudden, they made a mistake 
and it turned out to be an x-ray, and 
sometimes science is not quite as scientific 
as it seems. I think that this 
particular Chamber should not be judging 
what is science and what is not 
science. 

For the amendment of the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN), which I 
would really encourage the Members to 
read if they are going to be voting on 
this, because I do not think his amendment 
says what he purports to do in his 
oral remarks here, but this amendment 
would absolutely set a dangerous 
precedent. 

This Congress has never legislated 
the approval or disapproval of any 
drugs. That is the job of the Food and 
Drug Administration. We pay for scientists. 
We, as taxpayers, pay to make 
sure that what reaches our shelves is 
safe; but we do not prejudge what is 
medically relevant. 

We also know that many drugs are 
tested at the end of use for treatment 
of more than one illness, disease, or 
condition. We do not really control 
that. So I would say that on the basis 
of science alone this amendment 
should be rejected. 

I think that the committee also on 
which we serve, and we are a very responsible 
committee, we are the first 
one on this floor, we are trying to clear 
this bill under regular order, and I do 
believe that the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. COBURN) has been given sufficient 
time, actually a lot of time over 
the last several weeks, to express his 
points of view, which have been very 
well articulated. 

But the truth is, our subcommittee 
never had any hearings on this particular 
matter. The reason is we are 
the Committee on Appropriations. We 
do not try to tell FDA what to do. We 
expect the authorizing committees will 
deal with that. 

If my experience proves me right, my 
guess would be that if there are concerns 
about something that is inappropriate, 
that is best taken to the authorizing 
committees. 

This amendment is not going to be in 
the Senate bill, and it is not going to 
become a part of the final legislation. 

So I would say based on science, 
based on safe procedures, that this is 
something the FDA should be implementing, 
and also based on regular 
order, the gentleman’s amendment 
should be defeated. I would urge my 
colleagues to do so. 

Mr. STARK. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong 
opposition to the Coburn amendment to the 
Agriculture Appropriations bill that would ban 
the Federal Drug Administration from using 
funds to test, develop, or approve Mifepristone 

Goode Manzullo Saxton 
Goodlatte Mascara Scarborough

(RU–486)—a drug which has been found to 

be safe and effective for early, non-surgical 

Goodling McCrery Schaffer 
abortion. Goss McHugh Sensenbrenner 
This is yet another political vote and political Graham McInnis Sessions 

Green (WI) McIntosh Shadegg

debate on a drug whose benefits have been 

Gutknecht McIntyre Shaw

scientifically proven. This amendment is an Hall (OH) Sherwood

McKeon 
unwarranted intrusion into the work of the Hall (TX) McNulty Shimkus 
Hansen Metcalf Shows

FDA, whose job is to decide whether to ap-

Hastert Mica Shuster

prove RU–486 or other drugs based on health 

Hastings (WA) Miller, Gary Simpsonand safety—not abortion politics. Hayes Mollohan Skeen 

Medical abortions and RU–486, if approved, 

Hayworth Moran (KS) Skelton 
Hefley Murtha Smith (MI)

would allow more choices to women seeking 

Herger Myrick Smith (NJ)
abortion. Medical abortions are a better health Hill (MT) Nethercutt Smith (TX) 

option for some women. Medical abortions Hilleary Ney Souder 
Hobson Northup Spence

allow women to avoid surgery as well as pro-

Hoekstra Norwood Stearns

tect their privacy—women can receive RU– 

Holden Nussle Stenholm 
486 in pill form in a regular doctor’s office, and Hostettler Oberstar Stump 
be spared the trauma of protesters and vio-

Hulshof Ortiz Stupak 
Hunter Oxley Sununu

lence that continue to stigmatize these women 

Hutchinson Packard Talent 
for exercising their constitutionally protected Hyde Paul Tancredo 
right to choose. Istook Pease Tauzin 
Jenkins Peterson (MN) Taylor (MS)

Approval of RU–486 is critical so that doc-

John Peterson (PA) Taylor (NC)

tors may use this procedure when they believe Johnson, Sam Petri Terry 

it is the safest way to end a pregnancy and Jones (NC) Phelps Thornberry 
Kanjorski Pickering Thune

leave the woman with the best chance to have 

Kasich Pitts Tiahrt

a healthy baby in the future. 

Kildee Pombo Traficant 
New contraceptive development would also King (NY) Portman Vitter 
be targeted. Many anti-choice groups believe 

Kingston Quinn Walden 
Klink Radanovich Walsh

that some contraceptive methods cause an 

Knollenberg Rahall Wampabortion. This is untrue. If that contention were Kucinich Regula Watkins 

accepted as fact, research and development LaFalce Reynolds Watts (OK) 
LaHood Riley Weldon (FL)

of man new contraceptives would come to a 

Largent Roemer Weldon (PA)

halt. This amendment would deprive women of 

Latham Rogan Weller 
the benefits of significant contraceptive ad-LaTourette Rogers Weygand 
vances. 

Lewis (CA) Rohrabacher Whitfield 
Lewis (KY) Ros-Lehtinen Wicker

Make no mistake, a vote for this amend-

Linder Royce Wolf 
ment endangers the health of women, and Lipinski Ryan (WI) Young (AK) 

adds to the long list of barriers set by the ma-LoBiondo Ryun (KS) Young (FL) 
Lucas (KY) Salmon

jority in Congress that make reproductive 

Lucas (OK) Sanford

health services more dangerous and difficult to 

NOES—214

obtain. I strongly oppose the Coburn amendment. 


Abercrombie DeGette Houghton 
Ackerman Delahunt Hoyer

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I yield 

Allen DeLauro Inslee 
back the balance of my time. Andrews Deutsch Isakson 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on Baird Dicks Jackson (IL) 
Baldacci Dingell Jackson-Lee

the amendment offered by the gen-

Baldwin Dixon (TX)

tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COBURN). Barrett (WI) Doggett Jefferson 

The question was taken; and the Bass Dooley Johnson (CT) 
Becerra Edwards Johnson, E. B.

Chairman announced that the noes ap-

Bentsen Ehrlich Jones (OH)

peared to have it. 

Berkley Engel Kaptur 

RECORDED VOTE Berman Eshoo Kelly 
Biggert Etheridge Kennedy

Mr. COBURN. Mr. Chairman, I de-

Bilbray Evans Kilpatrickmand a recorded vote. Bishop Farr Kind (WI) 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

Blagojevich Fattah Kleczka 
Blumenauer Filner Kolbe

The vote was taken by electronic de-

Boehlert Foley Kuykendallvice, and there were—ayes 217, noes 214, Bonior Ford Lampson 

not voting 4, as follows: Boswell Fowler Lantos 
Boucher Frank (MA) Larson

[Roll No. 173] 

Boyd Franks (NJ) Lazio 
AYES—217 Brady (PA) Frelinghuysen Leach 
Brown (FL) Frost Lee

Aderholt Bryant Cunningham 

Brown (OH) Ganske Levin

Archer Burr Deal 

Campbell Gejdenson Lewis (GA)

Armey Burton DeLay 

Capps Gephardt Lofgren

Bachus Buyer DeMint 

Capuano Gibbons Lowey

Baker Callahan Diaz-Balart 

Cardin Gilchrest Luther

Ballenger Calvert Dickey 

Carson Gilman Maloney (CT)

Barcia Camp Doolittle 

Castle Gonzalez Maloney (NY)

Barr Canady Doyle 

Clay Gordon Markey

Barrett (NE) Cannon Dreier 

Clayton Granger Martinez

Bartlett Chabot Duncan 

Clement Green (TX) Matsui

Barton Chambliss Dunn 

Clyburn Greenwood McCarthy (MO)

Bateman Coble Ehlers 

Condit Gutierrez McCarthy (NY)

Bereuter Coburn Emerson 

Conyers Hastings (FL) McDermott

Berry Collins English 

Coyne Hill (IN) McGovern

Bilirakis Combest Everett 

Cramer Hilliard McKinney

Bliley Cook Ewing 

Cummings Hinchey Meehan

Blunt Cooksey Fletcher 

Danner Hinojosa Meek (FL)

Boehner Costello Forbes 

Davis (FL) Hoeffel Meeks (NY)

Bonilla Cox Fossella 

Davis (IL) Holt Menendez

Bono Crane Gallegly 

Davis (VA) Hooley Millender-

Borski Crowley Gekas 

DeFazio Horn McDonald

Brady (TX) Cubin Gillmor 


H3812 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

Miller (FL) Rangel Sweeney 
Miller, George Reyes Tanner 
Minge Rivers Tauscher 
Mink Rodriguez Thomas 
Moakley Rothman Thompson (CA) 
Moore Roukema Thompson (MS) 
Moran (VA) Roybal-Allard Thurman 
Morella Rush Tierney 
Nadler Sabo Toomey 
Napolitano Sanchez Towns 
Neal Sanders Turner 
Obey Sandlin Udall (CO) 
Olver Sawyer Udall (NM) 
Ose Schakowsky Upton 
Owens Scott Velazquez 
Pallone Serrano Vento 
Pascrell Shays Visclosky 
Pastor Sherman Watt (NC) 
Payne Sisisky Waxman 
Pelosi Slaughter Weiner 
Pickett Smith (WA) Wexler 
Pomeroy Snyder Wilson 
Porter Spratt Wise 
Price (NC) Stabenow Woolsey 
Pryce (OH) Stark Wu 
Ramstad Strickland Wynn 

NOT VOTING—4 

Brown (CA) McCollum 
Chenoweth Waters 

b1646 

Mr. REYES changed his vote from 
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 

Messrs. DREIER, TAYLOR of North 
Carolina, OXLEY and BATEMAN 
changed their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’ 

So the amendment was agreed to. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

AMENDMENT NO. 17 OFFERED BY MR. CHABOT 

Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Chairman, I offer 
an amendment. 

The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will designate 
the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Amendment No. 17 offered by Mr. CHABOT: 

Insert before the short title the following 
new section: 

SEC. . (A) LIMITATION.—None of the funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by 
this Act may be used to award any new allocations 
under the market access program or 
to pay the salaries of personnel to award 
such allocations. 

Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Chairman, the rationale 
behind this amendment is simple. 
Hard-working taxpayers should not 
have to subsidize the advertising costs 
of America’s private corporations, yet 
this is exactly what the Market Access 
Program does. 

Since 1986, the Federal Government 
has extracted well over $1 billion from 
the pockets of American taxpayers and 
handed it to multimillion dollar corporations 
to subsidize their marketing 
programs in foreign countries. In other 
words, the U.S. taxpayer is helping successful 
private companies and trade associations 
advertise their wares in foreign 
countries. 

Mr. Chairman, I think the American 
people would agree that their money 
could be better spent on deficit reduction 
for education. Rather than subsidize 
private businesses and corporations, 
that money could much better be 
spent on deficit reduction or on education 
or on saving Social Security, on 
the environment, or on tax cuts. 

In the past, we have witnessed MAP 
supporters present some good-sounding 
arguments for preserving what is in my 

view a corporate welfare scheme. The 
only problem is that when we cut 
through the pro-MAP propaganda, 
there is no credible evidence to back up 
their claims. 

Let me give my colleagues an example. 
MAP supporters have argued that 
this so-called business government 
partnership creates jobs. But I think, 
Mr. Chairman, that the American people 
know that the only jobs usually 
created by big government spending 
programs are for big government bureaucracies. 


This view of the MAP program is 
backed by the General Accounting Office. 
GAO studies indicated that this 
program has no discernible effect on 

U.S. agricultural exports. So if the program 
cannot increase U.S. exports, how 
can it possibly create more private-sector 
jobs? 
For years, supporters of MAP have 
lauded the economic benefits created 
by the program. However, in April 1999, 
a GAO report, requested by myself and 
Senator SCHUMER and a bipartisan 
group of House Members, concluded 
that the economic benefits of this program 
are uncertain at best. 

According to that report, it seems 
that the Foreign Agricultural Service, 
the bureaucracy which administers 
this corporate welfare program, has 
used certain assumptions that the OMB 
has determined to be inadequate for 
economic benefit analysis. For example, 
the Foreign Agricultural Service 
assumes that there are no opportunity 
costs for promoting one product over 
another. 

But even if my colleagues do believe 
these supposed benefits, they have all 
the more reason to support this amendment. 
These numbers, if accurate, 
prove that, given these positive returns 
on an investment overseas, MAP-supported 
corporations and trade associations 
ought to be spending their own 
money and not the money of the taxpayers 
of this Nation. 

My opposition to MAP is not based 
solely on the false premises of its supporters. 
I am offering this amendment 
today because we simply do not need 
this wasteful program. Let us be honest. 
Most American businesses do not 
benefit and do not try to take advantage 
of government handouts like this 
MAP program. 

In the case of MAP, as in most corporate 
welfare programs, beneficiaries 
consist primarily of politically well-
connected corporations and trade associations. 
Most, if not all of these organizations, 
would advertise their products 
overseas, even without MAP 
funds. They probably would work much 
harder to ensure that the money is well 
spent. 

Let me give just one example of the 
kind of waste and mismanagement that 
this program breeds. We all remember 
a few years ago when the California 
Raisin Board sponsored the ‘‘I heard it 
through the grapevine’’ raisin commercial. 
Based on the success of that commercial 
in the U.S., MAP decided that 

it would be a good idea to use that 
commercial to attempt to boost raisin 
sales in Japan and put $3 million into 
the project. 

Not surprisingly, however, the ads 
played in English, leaving many Japanese 
confused, unaware that the dancing 
characters were raisins. Most 
thought they were potatoes or chocolate. 
In addition, many Japanese children 
were afraid of the wrinkled, misshapen 
figures. This, of course, is the 
kind of wasteful spending that inevitably 
occurs when we give someone the 
ability to spend other people’s money. 

Mr. Chairman, Congress should end 
the practice of wasting tax dollars on 
special interest spending programs 
that unfairly take money from hardworking 
families to help profitable private 
companies pad their bottom line. 
MAP is a massive corporate welfare 
program that we should eliminate 
today. 

Finally, in MAP, MAP’s proponents 
have argued that due to recent reforms, 
big corporations no longer receive 
MAP funds. It is true that in 
June 1998, in order to correct some of 
the more egregious abuses of the MAP, 
Market Access Program, the Foreign 
Agricultural Service revised its regulations 
to limit a company to 5 years of 
assistance in a particular country. 
After this 5-year period had expired, 
companies were to be graduated from 
the country’s market. Translation: 
These billion-dollar corporations were 
no longer to receive tax dollars to fund 
their product promotions. 

So I would strongly urge my colleagues 
to vote to get rid of this very 
wasteful program. 

Mr. SKEEN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
opposition to the amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, this is an annual debate, 
and I am not sure why we have to 
have it. Virtually all of our competitor 
nations spend money to promote their 
products against ours. We have had testimony 
from both USDA and many private-
sector companies about the success 
of the program, particularly for 
small enterprises. 

Mr. Chairman, I oppose the amendment 
and ask my colleagues to do the 
same. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I move 
to strike the last word. 

b1700 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
the gentleman’s amendment and am 
somewhat surprised that a Member 
from Ohio, where agriculture is our 
leading industry, would offer this particular 
amendment. If one reads the 
changes that have been made in this 
program, particularly targeting its 
benefits at small- and medium-sized 
operations, I think some of what the 
gentleman has said might have been 
true many years ago, but they are certainly 
not true today. 

If one looks at what is happening in 
rural America, which is swimming in 
surpluses, and we know that for this 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3813 

country to help rural America make it 
we must expand our exports in spite of 
collapses in the Asian economy and 
other places, there is one program we 
do not want to cut at all and it is this 
program. 

I think what is really hard sometimes 
for Members who represent only 
urban or suburban areas, where production 
does not occur, where people 
largely reside but perhaps where agricultural 
development does not happen 
on an everyday basis, it is hard to understand 
how a farmer, who may raise 
beans or may raise animals and who 
wish to export a product, many times 
those same farmers cannot even sell in 
Cincinnati. A farmer over in Butler 
County, the only way they can get 
product into the City of Cincinnati is 
to perhaps sell at their farmers’ market. 
They cannot even get their products 
on the shelves of the stores in Cincinnati. 
Imagine how difficult it is for 
that same farmer to move product into 
Japan or any other part of Asia or 
Latin America or Europe. 

This market access program is the 
only mechanism we have to help growers 
move product abroad. This is not 
Procter & Gamble. This is not where 
we can take production and move it 
anyplace in the world and then distribute 
the product. This is not U.S. 
Shoe, where all of their products are 
made abroad and then imported into 
Cincinnati and distributed to the rest 
of the United States. This is trying to 
help our producers in this country to 
be able to lift product off our market 
and take it somewhere else. 

And, Mr. Chairman, I underline ‘‘producers.’’ 
This is really a very, very important 
program. And if my colleagues 
know the trade accounts of this Nation, 
where every year we are going 
into more and more serious trade deficit, 
every single year more imports 
coming in here than exports going out, 
the one rosy light in a very bleak set of 
tables is agriculture. And the light is 
not getting brighter; it is getting dimmer 
as the years go on, but it is still lit 
up. And the reason is because we have 
been able to move product elsewhere 
around the world. 

So I would just say to the gentleman, 
in a State where our leading industry 
is agriculture, in a Nation where the 
agricultural accounts represent the 
only positive side of the trade ledger, 
this is exactly the program we do not 
want to cut. And we do not want to cut 
it particularly at a time when rural 
America is in deep depressions. This is 
a time to help our people, not to penalize 
them, and especially to meet the 
subsidized kind of programs that our 
trade competitors have on the books 
all across the world. 

Stand up for American agriculture 
when she is calling us and asking us to 
hear her voice. 

Mr. EWING. Mr. Chairman, I move to 
strike the requisite number of words. 

Mr. Chairman, I reluctantly rise to 
oppose this amendment by my colleague. 
While I am sure it is well in


tended, it is like some of the other 
amendments we often get but, fortunately, 
this year have not gotten on 
this bill dealing with important crops 
like peanuts, sugar, and tobacco. But 
let me speak to the MAP, the Market 
Access Program. 

The United States is outspent more 
than 20 to 1 by our foreign competitors 
spending money on export promotion 
and export subsidies. In 1997, the leading 
U.S. competitors spent $924 million 
to promote agricultural exports, much 
of it in this country, and the United 
States spends $90 million. Ninety million 
dollars spent by the United States 
compared to $924 million by our competitors. 


There is no limit placed on the 
amount that can be spent by exporting 
countries for agricultural promotion. 
The WTO does not limit that. And 
right now, while the U.S. has diminished 
the amount they have spent, 
other countries in the world are expanding 
the amount that they are 
spending to promote their products in 
this country and other places in the 
world. 

Foreign spending in the U.S. on promoting 
our competitors’ agriculture is 
growing. A hundred million was spent 
in 1997 for that purpose. That much 
more. The biggest spenders are New 
Zealand, Italy, Spain, Australia and 
Canada. 

The U.S. exports have gone down 
over the past 3 years. This is not the 
time when we should be cutting the 
funds necessary to promote our exports. 
SUDA estimates that agricultural 
exports will be only $49 billion 
this year. Just 3 years ago they were 
$60 billion. We have serious problems in 
American agriculture. The way to address 
them is not to cut the promotional 
funds needed to make us competitive 
around the world, and I reluctantly 
would rise and ask my colleagues 
to oppose this amendment. 

Mr. FARR of California. Mr. Chairman, 
I move to strike the requisite 
number of words. 

Mr. Chairman, my colleagues should 
wake up and smell the coffee. That 
Juan Valdez, who is in all our homes, 
on our television sets, telling us about 
the virtues of Colombian coffee, and we 
see him in those advertisements in 
every grocery store promoting that 
coffee, where do my colleagues think 
that money comes from? It comes from 
the Colombian Coffee Growers Association. 
And why are they doing it? They 
are paying to promote their product. 
Not a brand name but a generic name. 

Well, what is wrong with us doing the 
same thing? How are we going to sell 
agriculture around the world? We 
produce in agriculture, which is essentially 
if we really look at this, a lot of 
small farmers getting together and 
promoting a product. They have to, 
under this program, come up with 50 
percent of the money. The Federal 
Government comes in only after they 
have initiated it and they do a match. 

Remember Riuniti Wine that was advertising 
all over America a few years 

ago? Where do my colleagues think the 
advertising for that came from? Marketing 
promotion from Italy to get 
Americans to drink Italian wine. 

Now, we export $60 billion worth of 
food around the world. Why do my colleagues 
think people buy our food? Because 
we help promote it, just like anyone 
would sell anything else. Well, this 
is the program that helps promote it. 
Only this program does not allow, as 
the author of the amendment indicated, 
big corporate agriculture to benefit. 
This program ties it to small- and 
medium-sized companies. He says this 
is big corporate welfare. Well, there is 
no big corporate welfare in the Seed 
Trade Association, in the Asparagus 
Association, in the Kiwi Commission, 
in the Prune Board, in the North American 
Blueberry Council, in the Catfish 
Institute, in the Apple Association. 
That is not big corporate welfare. Last 
time I checked, these products were 
being grown by small farmers, and they 
are trying to get their products sold. 

Now, why is it good for America? Because 
the one area where our balance 
of trade is strong is in agriculture. We 
export $60 billion and we import $30 billion. 
We cannot say that about any 
other industry in America. We are actually 
selling more than we are taking 
in. That is what it is all about. Well, 
this is the program that helps do it. 
Why would we want to undermine that 
program? 

A lot of the data being quoted is old 
data. In the last few years we amended 
this program and we said participants 
had to come up with a match, they had 
to be for small businesses, they cannot 
be those big conglomerates, and so we 
have limited the amount of funding 
that can be given to anybody. This 
helps sell American agriculture. It is 
the only way we are going to be able to 
sell it. Support this program. It is not 
big corporate welfare, it is small American 
farmers being able to sell their 
product abroad. I ask for a ‘‘no’’ vote 
on the amendment. 

Mr. NETHERCUTT. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

I have great respect for the sponsor 
of this amendment, but not so much respect 
that I want to vote for it. In fact, 
I am going to oppose it, simply because 
what my friend from California just 
stated is absolutely true. 

What happens in this Market Access 
Program is this. Growers and consortiums, 
Sunkist for orange juice, Tree-
Top for apple juice, which is very 
prominent out my way in the State of 
Washington, get together and they decide 
how they can best promote their 
products overseas. They pay half the 
freight. The taxpayer pays half and the 
sponsor, the marketer, pays the other 
half. And that is what is fair about this 
program. 

It has been cut down dramatically 
since I have been in this House. I have 
seen Members on both sides of the aisle 
have some concern about this; people, 
by the way, who do not care much 


H3814 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

about agriculture and do not understand 
exports, but they have managed 
to whittle down this particular expenditure 
in the agriculture appropriations 
bill such that it is down to virtually 
very little when it can do so much. It 
can do so much. 

What I think the sponsor does not appreciate, 
and maybe others who might 
support this do not appreciate, is that 
when we submit this amount of money, 
the small amount of money relative to 
the rest of the agriculture budget for 
market promotion, for promotion of 
our products overseas, that has direct 
impact on the farmer. It has direct impact 
on rural America. 

And talking about big corporate welfare, 
that is not the case in this particular 
program. This helps the grower, 
the farmer, the person who works the 
land and presents a product that can be 
exported overseas and dramatically 
helps our balance of trade. 

As the gentleman from California 
(Mr. FARR) said, agriculture is a huge 
benefactor to the balance of trade. It 
helps our country by exporting products. 
So, number one, it is a small 
amount relative to what it used to be 
and what it is in the agriculture budget; 
number two, it helps the small 
farmer, it helps the grower; number 
three, it helps the American economy, 
especially the rural economy, because 
we are essentially buying shelf space 
and competing with European and 
other products around the world; and, 
finally, the governments of these other 
countries are subsidizing tremendous 
amounts of money to their growers and 
their producers to sell products in our 
country. 

So this is a small way, a fair shared 
way that our products can get on the 
shelf in Europe, and our growers, our 
producers, our farmers, our market 
system, the export market system can 
work in our country. 

So, again, I have great respect for the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT). He 
is a good Member and has good ideas, 
but this one is one that should be defeated. 
I hope my colleagues will vote 
‘‘no’’ on this amendment. 

Mr. BOSWELL. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

We have had some good discussion 
here already, and I am not going to try 
to repeat it over and over, but I appreciate 
the things that have been said. I 
might just give my colleagues a little 
lesson in history that some Members 
might not be aware of about the American 
farmer. We are in a crisis in agriculture, 
no question about it. I live out 
there, as many of my colleagues do. I 
just spent a week in my district, and it 
is tough and it is real. 

A few years ago, when we had the Ag 
crisis of the 1980s, it was interesting to 
me, and that is what motivated me to 
get involved in this arena, the political 
arena, we had people going to their 
lenders and different organizations, 
and I will not get into that, and they 
told our farmers to go back and sell 

their cow herds or sell their sows, or do 
this or that. In other words, dispose of 
their factory, in a sense. We do not 
want to do that again. We have to get 
out there and be competitive in the export 
market. 

In my State we have to export about 
40 percent to make things work. That 
is kind of a reflection of the country. 
We have to do about the same thing to 
make things work. As we have heard 
many of our colleagues say already, agriculture 
puts a plus on the trade deficit 
in our favor, so we cannot let this 
happen. It is not a time to let up and 
say we are not going to go out there 
and be competitive. 

In our Committee on Agriculture 
here a number of weeks ago, we had the 
Secretary come and talk to us and 
mention the unprecedented 3 years in a 
row that there has been overproduction. 
And so when our people go to sell 
to someone else, they say, excuse me, 
we have something we want to sell. 
And so this is a time when we want to 
cut back on the promotion. We cannot 
do that. 

So I encourage a ‘‘no’’ vote and hope 
that we can do that; that we can give 
a leg up for the American farmer and 
agriculture production. It is important 
to all of us. I do not care where we live, 
what part of the country, what we do, 
it is important to all of us and let us 
not forget that. 

b1715 
Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Chairman, I move to 
strike the requisite number of words. 
Mr. Chairman, since the Great Depression, 
American farmers were 
shackled by the Federal Government 
with programs and regulations that 
kept them from producing all they 
could. We all remember how many 
farmers were paid not to grow certain 
crops; they were paid subsidies to grow 
others. 
Over the last few years, our colleagues 
on the agriculture and agricultural 
appropriation committees have 
done an excellent job in reducing 
harmful government interference in 
American agriculture and putting it on 
the road back to the market system 
that works so well. American farmers 
are now unshackled and free to produce 
as they see fit, not as Washington tells 
them. 
However, more work remains to be 
done. The market access program is a 
relic of our former government-heavy 
agricultural system. The MAP program, 
the Market Access Program, provides 
millions of dollars in taxpayer 
subsidies per year to agribusinesses to 
supplement their international advertising 
and marketing. 
We have heard that agriculture is one 
of the most important businesses in 
America, and we have also heard that 
advertising American agriculture overseas 
is critical. And I agree with these 
points. They are certainly true. 
The question is not whether agriculture 
and American farmers are important. 
Without question, they are 

very important to this economy. And 
we all know that advertising is an essential 
part of doing business. The 
question is whether MAP is a proper 
use of taxpayer money. And it is not. 

The cost of advertising should be 
borne by the firms which stand to benefit, 
not the taxpayers. 

Let me also say that I do not believe 
that working men and women should 
continue to foot the bill for advertising 
subsidies to multinational corporations. 
Promotional advertising for 
product is simply not the role of government. 
It is the role of those private 
concerns that benefit from the sale of 
those products. 

The future and continued performance 
of American agriculture is not 
contingent upon handing out taxpayer 
money for advertising. The success of 
American agriculture results from the 
energy and ingenuity of American 
farmers, not government subsidies. 

Let me also say that as far as the 
GAO report, the GAO report found that 
there is no clear relationship between 
the amount spent on government export 
promotion and changes in the 
level of U.S. exports. 

In a separate report, the GAO questioned 
whether funds are actually supporting 
additional promotional activities 
or if they are simply replacing private 
industry funds. What is obvious on 
its face is that money handed out by 
government bureaucrats does not 
magically become several dollars. 

And let me say that another argument 
that is often made is that we are 
being outsubsidized by the European 
Union and other countries throughout 
the world. I might point out that our 
economy is outperforming those countries 
by every measure. 

Our gross national product dwarfs 
most every other country in the world. 
We have the most productive workers. 
Our per capita income is highest. Unemployment 
is almost nonexistent. 

I, for one, do not wish to follow the 
European model of subsidies. I do not 
think that many of my colleagues do 
either. We should continue striving to 
shed these vestiges of central planning 
instead of defending those that have 
crept into our economy in the past. 

Government has no business deciding 
which companies are worthy of advertising 
funds. That is precisely what the 
free market is there to do, to allocate 
resources in the most efficient way 
possible. The government ought not to 
be taking tax money from companies 
to finance the advertising of their competition, 
which is the direct result of 
redistribution. 

I make no argument that advertising 
sells products. This is obvious. The 
point, however, is whether private conditions 
should pay for the promotion of 
their own product or whether the 
American taxpayer should be forced to 
do so. We do not force the American 
taxpayer to pay for other corporate expenses 
like office supplies. American 
taxpayers should not pay for this cost 
of doing business. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3815 

Mrs. CLAYTON. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

Mr. Chairman, I think that, obviously, 
as we look at this program, the 
question is, is this a program that is of 
value to the American people? Is it a 
program of value to the American 
farmers? And should we be investing in 
promoting the American farmers’ product 
abroad? 

I think there is value in investing in 
the promotion of the American farmers, 
because not only is that a public 
policy that we support our farmers. 
True enough, in 1996, we had a farm bill 
that said we were removing ourselves 
from the subsidy model and we are 
going more to a market model. I personally 
did not support that. But nevertheless, 
even in a market-driven 
model, not to have this tool is counterproductive. 


This tool simply says that it is a tool 
to market our farmers who were heretofore 
dependent and subsidized. Our 
farmers are having a very difficult 
time. If we are not going to make the 
market available as a tool to them, as 
we pull away the safety net, how do we 
expect our farmers in rural areas to 
survive? How is it that they are going 
to be on a competitive basis with other 
countries subsidizing large quantities 
if we expect they have no safety net, 
and yet we are not going to give them 
the tools to survive? 

We are struggling in rural America. I 
cannot think of a commodity that 
made money in my State. And without 
this tool, they certainly would not 
have it. And the claim that this only 
goes to large corporations, indeed, that 
has been in the past, but this program 
has been improved. Indeed, it goes now 
to small farmers, to associations. 

What kind of commodities does it 
support? It supports dry beans, eggs, 
frozen potatoes, grapes, peanuts. My 
colleagues would expect me to say peanuts 
because I am from North Carolina. 
But also pears. All of these small farmers’ 
products, associations getting together, 
having their government to 
recognize the importance of their coming 
together and promoting their 
goods. 

We travel abroad and we find that 
other countries are subsidizing the 
marketing of their products. We make 
our farmers less competitive when we 
remove this tool. 

So I urge my colleagues to vote 
against this amendment, as well-meaning 
as it might be. This is counterproductive 
to the needs of the farmers 
in the rural areas. 

Mr. LATHAM. Mr. Chairman, I move 
to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

Mr. Chairman, I would just like to 
make a few points. The idea that this 
money goes to large corporations is 
simply bogus. This money is matched 
by money which is raised from producers, 
such as pork producers, who are 
hurting so badly today. The cattlemen, 
the corn growers, the soybean growers 

put their own money with this. This is 
not to enhance a particular brand 
name. It is to sell U.S., high-quality 
pork, corn products, feed products 
overseas. 

One part of the argument that I 
think is really missing is what effect 
do agricultural exports have on Americans 
as far as their jobs? And one gentleman 
made a statement about people 
working hard to pay taxes and using 
their money for this. Well, the fact of 
the matter is, in the State of California, 
where that gentleman was from, 
there are 124,000 jobs directly dependent 
upon agricultural exports. Think of 
it, 124,000 jobs which could be greatly 
reduced if we lose our export markets 
and if we do not continue to grow in 
our exports. 

In Ohio there are 27,000 jobs directly 
related to agricultural exports. It is extraordinarily 
important in a State like 
Ohio to maintain those good, high-paying 
jobs which are dependent upon agricultural 
exports. 

In the State of Iowa, a smaller population 
State, it has a huge impact. We 
have 80,000 jobs in Iowa that are directly 
related to agricultural exports. 
So when we talk about this program 
being some kind of corporate welfare, I 
hope people here will recognize the fact 
that our constituents at home are dependent 
upon agricultural exports. 

It is very important that we go and 
promote high quality American pork 
overseas, not a particular company, 
but American pork. It is very important 
that we promote American soybeans 
and find new uses for those product 
overseas for corn products, for beef 
overseas. 

It is extremely important. We have a 
tremendous number of jobs that are directly 
dependent. 

So let us not just talk about exporting 
and competing with other nations. 
Let us talk about at home in our own 
districts how important it is that we 
continue to use the tools available that 
the producers themselves are willing to 
contribute to to sell their products 
overseas which create good jobs at 
home in our own districts, high-paying 
jobs, and really are the future for agriculture 
in the international marketplace. 


Mr. HAYES. Mr. Chairman, I move to 
strike the requisite number of words. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in strong 
support of the fiscal year 2000 Agriculture 
Appropriations bill. I commend 
the gentleman from New Mexico (Mr. 
SKEEN), the chairman, and the gentlewoman 
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR), the 
ranking member, and all my colleagues 
on the subcommittee for bringing this 
bill to us, a bill which supports American 
farmers in rural communities. 
This bill comes to us after much time, 
deliberation, and discussion. I thank 
the subcommittee for their hard work. 

I want to address the current amendment 
to eliminate the Market Access 
Program. This program is vital to the 
success of our farmers. If this amendment 
passes, we as a Congress are to 

blame for handing over U.S. agricultural 
market share to foreign competitors. 


I believe with my whole heart that 
the American farmers are the most efficient 
in the world and produce the 
best products at the lowest prices and 
provide the safest food of anyone in the 
world. With this knowledge, I confidently 
say that given an equal opportunity, 
American farmers can compete 
and succeed against agricultural products 
from any other country. 

However, American farmers are not 
being given this equal opportunity. The 
United States is outspent by more than 
20 to 1 by our foreign competitors, promoting 
and subsidizing their own product. 


In 1997, the leading U.S. competitor 
spent $924 million to promote their agriculture 
exports, $100 million of that 
spent on promotions here in the United 
States. Conversely, we grant our farmers 
assistance to the tune of $90 million 
to help them compete against our competitor’s 
$924 million. 

Rather than having this annual debate 
aimed at eliminating the program, 
I argue that Congress should 
rather be discussing a funding increase 
for the Market Access Program. This is 
the only program aimed correctly at 
helping U.S. agriculture products 
around the world. 

Our competitors have no limits on 
what they will spend to assist their 
farmers in edging out our product. 
Their success is evidenced by the fact 
that U.S. ag exports have decreased by 
$11 billion since 1996. 

In conclusion, let me simply say the 
Market Access Program is a valuable 
tool we are able to provide our farmers. 
This tool not only helps them compete 
abroad, but it also supports thousands 
of U.S. export jobs, 24,000 in my State 
of North Carolina alone. 

I urge my colleagues to vote in favor 
of U.S. farmers by voting against this 
amendment. 

Mr. BALDACCI. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the requisite number of 
words. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
the amendment that has been offered 
by my colleague, who intends on eliminating 
the Market Access Program. 

We revisit this issue annually. Reforms 
have been undertaken. The Foreign 
Agriculture Service reviews proposals 
submitted by the agriculture cooperatives 
and nonprofit organizations. 
They must provide matching funds. 
The FAS scrutinizes expenses and the 
performances. 

Farmers across the country are suffering 
from prices having dropped. Export 
opportunities have been withering, 
and they are trying to gain a 
market share in countries around the 
world. They are competing with odds 
against them. 

Eliminating the cost share assistance 
of MAP would make that struggle even 
harder. 

As we have eliminated the trade barriers 
between our country and other 


H3816 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

countries, and we have not required the 
same relaxation in other countries as 
our farmers are competing with their 
hands tied behind their backs, we are 
trying to help them to search out other 
markets, other opportunities, beyond 
their traditional markets. We have 
tried to do this and we have been successful 
at it. 

The money spent in this program, $90 
million, has returned, according to estimates, 
$12.5 billion trade surplus in 
agriculture. And when our country has 
a trade deficit of billions of dollars, 
this is the only part of our trade and 
our export that actually has a trade 
surplus. 

b1730 
In the Northeast and in Maine in particular, 
there are families that own 
apple orchards that are hurting. The 
money that would be helping to generate 
business for them in the United 
Kingdom is a generic promotion for 
MacIntosh apples which they are providing 
the match for. This is not a government 
handout but a match is required 
for them to participate in this 
program. It is a Federal program that 
is helping family farmers in a region 
where family farmers are struggling. I 
have been working with lobstermen, 
using the MAP funds trying to open up 
Asian markets to them. And I have 
helped family-owned sardine canneries 
secure assistance. 
This is not some huge welfare for 
huge corporations. This is for fishermen, 
for farmers, for people who are 
working in family-owned businesses 
who have chosen a rugged way of life to 
put food on the tables of America and 
the world. This program is aimed at 
small- and medium-sized companies. It 
has been reformed and it is working. It 
is one of the few areas of our Federal 
export-import program that is working 
very successfully and is working for 
small- and medium-sized family farms. 
I would urge my colleagues to vote 
against this amendment and to keep 
this program working. 
Ms. WOOLSEY. Mr. Chairman, I 
move to strike the requisite number of 
words. 
Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition 
to this shortsighted amendment 
which would have a huge impact on the 
constituents in my district, Sonoma 
and Marin Counties in California, a district 
where some of the world’s finest 
wines are produced. If this amendment 
passes, our world famous wine would 
certainly have a more difficult time 
competing in the world market. So 
would our neighboring districts, Napa 
County, Mendocino County and neighboring 
States, Oregon and Washington, 
and States across the country, like Arkansas. 
This amendment would impact the 
small wine producers, those who rely 
upon Federal export assistance to enter 
and compete in the global marketplace. 
Let us be clear. The playing field 
in the world export market for wines is 
not level. Unlike Europe and unlike 

South America, U.S. wine producers receive 
no production subsidies, no subsidies 
whatsoever, for their production. 
Furthermore, our competitors outspend 
the United States in export subsidies 
by more than 6 to 1. 

Mr. Chairman, small California 
wineries suffer in such a lopsided marketplace 
without some marketing assistance. 
Let there be no mistake, this 
amendment targets small, family-
owned businesses. Eighty-nine percent 
of the wineries that participate in the 
Market Access Program are small 
wineries. Furthermore, the Market Access 
Program is not a handout. It is a 
partnership, a partnership between 
small businesses and the USDA. And it 
provides funds on a cost-share basis. 
The European Union export subsidies 
amounted to approximately $10 billion 
last year, Mr. Chairman. In fact, the 
European Union spends more on export 
promotion for wine than the United 
States does for all of our agricultural 
programs combined. 

We need only look at last year to see 
this unfair disparity. Market promotion 
funds for the American wine industry 
totalled approximately $5 million. 
The heavily subsidized European 
wine industry received $1.5 billion. 
That is $5 million in the United States 
and $1.5 billion in Europe. The money 
we spend to increase the markets for 
American agricultural products is 
money well spent. Because of assistance 
from the Market Access Program, 

U.S. wine exports had their 14th consecutive 
record-breaking year in 1998, 
reaching $537 million. This level is $100 
million over the year before, which 
means that each Market Access Program 
dollar generated a $20 increase in 
exports. 
Just as important, California wines 
can now be found on the retail shelves 
of over 164 countries. In the last 10 
years, an additional 7,500 full-time jobs 
and 5,000 part-time jobs have been created 
by exporting wine. This is not 
only good for the American balance of 
trade, it is good for the American economy. 


Mr. Chairman, we should help export 

U.S. products, not U.S. jobs. Oppose 
this amendment. 
Mr. BARRETT of Nebraska. Mr. Chairman, 
I rise to oppose the Chabot amendment to the 
Market Access Program (MAP). Unfortunately, 
some of my colleagues appear not to understand 
the importance of MAP to our producers. 


Two weeks ago, the director of the Nebraska 
Department of Agriculture was in town 
to discuss agriculture policy with Members of 
Congress and the administration. We discussed 
in general terms all of the options for 
supporting American producers, and keeping 
US agriculture competitive in the world market. 
But there was one thing the director specifically 
asked for, and that was continued funding 
for the Market Access Program. 

Nebraska’s central location and small population 
base make it difficult for many individual 
producers to compete internationally. MAP 
funds help our producers, and the Nebraska 
Department of Agriculture, to overcome this 

hurdle by partially funding market service, and 
trade and research missions to foreign countries. 
These funds help support and promote 
the buying, selling, and development of Nebraska 
agricultural products. In today’s market, 
this is critical. 

Let’s face it, our producers must export in 
order to survive and prosper. And their products 
must be competitive on the world market. 
The Market Access Program is one small way 
we can help our producers. I strongly urge my 
colleagues to oppose this amendment, and to 
support our producers. 

The CHAIRMAN. The question is on 
the amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT). 

The question was taken; and the 
Chairman announced that the noes appeared 
to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Chairman, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 72, noes 355, 

not voting 7, as follows: 

[Roll No. 174] 
AYES—72 
Archer Franks (NJ) Paul 
Armey Frelinghuysen Petri 
Bachus Graham Portman 
Barr Hayworth Pryce (OH) 
Barrett (WI) Hoekstra Ramstad 
Bass Holt Rivers 
Berkley Horn Rogan 
Bilbray Hostettler Rohrabacher 
Campbell Istook Rothman 
Chabot Kelly Roukema 
Coble Kind (WI) Royce 
Coburn Kleczka Salmon 
Collins Largent Sanford 
Conyers Lazio Scarborough 
Cox Linder Sensenbrenner 
Crane LoBiondo Sessions 
DeLay Luther Shadegg 
DeMint Maloney (CT) Shays 
Doggett Manzullo Sununu 
Doyle Meehan Tierney 
Duncan Miller (FL) Toomey 
Ehlers Moran (VA) Wamp 
Ehrlich Morella Weiner 
Fossella Myrick Wu 
NOES—355 
Abercrombie Brady (PA) Davis (VA) 
Ackerman Brady (TX) Deal 
Aderholt Brown (FL) DeFazio 
Allen Brown (OH) DeGette 
Andrews Bryant Delahunt 
Baird Burr DeLauro 
Baker Burton Deutsch 
Baldacci Callahan Diaz-Balart 
Baldwin Calvert Dickey 
Ballenger Camp Dicks 
Barcia Canady Dingell 
Barrett (NE) Cannon Dixon 
Bartlett Capps Dooley 
Barton Capuano Doolittle 
Bateman Cardin Dreier 
Becerra Carson Dunn 
Bentsen Castle Edwards 
Bereuter Chambliss Emerson 
Berman Clay Engel 
Berry Clayton English 
Biggert Clement Eshoo 
Bilirakis Clyburn Etheridge 
Bishop Combest Evans 
Blagojevich Condit Everett 
Bliley Cook Ewing 
Blumenauer Cooksey Farr 
Blunt Costello Fattah 
Boehlert Coyne Filner 
Boehner Cramer Fletcher 
Bonilla Crowley Foley 
Bonior Cubin Forbes 
Bono Cummings Fowler 
Borski Cunningham Frank (MA) 
Boswell Danner Frost 
Boucher Davis (FL) Gallegly 
Boyd Davis (IL) Ganske 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3817 

Gejdenson 
Gekas 
Gephardt 
Gibbons 
Gilchrest 
Gillmor 
Gilman 
Gonzalez 
Goode 
Goodlatte 
Goodling 
Gordon 
Goss 
Granger 
Green (TX) 
Green (WI) 
Greenwood 
Gutierrez 
Gutknecht 
Hall (OH) 
Hall (TX) 
Hansen 
Hastings (FL) 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayes 
Hefley 
Herger 
Hill (IN) 
Hill (MT) 
Hilleary 
Hilliard 
Hinchey 
Hinojosa 
Hobson 
Hoeffel 
Holden 
Hooley 
Houghton 
Hoyer 
Hulshof 
Hunter 
Hutchinson 
Hyde 
Inslee 
Isakson 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson-Lee 

(TX) 
Jefferson 
Jenkins 
John 
Johnson (CT) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones (NC) 
Jones (OH) 
Kanjorski 
Kaptur 
Kasich 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilpatrick 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Klink 
Knollenberg 
Kolbe 
Kucinich 
Kuykendall 
LaFalce 
LaHood 
Lampson 
Lantos 
Larson 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Leach 
Lee 

Levin 
Lewis (CA) 
Lewis (GA) 
Lewis (KY) 
Lipinski 
Lofgren 
Lowey 
Lucas (KY) 
Lucas (OK) 
Maloney (NY) 
Markey 
Martinez 
Mascara 
Matsui 
McCarthy (MO) 
McCarthy (NY) 
McCrery 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McHugh 
McInnis 
McIntosh 
McIntyre 
McKeon 
McKinney 
McNulty 
Meek (FL) 
Meeks (NY) 
Menendez 
Metcalf 
Mica 
Millender-

McDonald 
Miller, Gary 
Miller, George 
Minge 
Mink 
Moakley 
Mollohan 
Moore 
Moran (KS) 
Murtha 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Nethercutt 
Northup 
Norwood 
Nussle 
Oberstar 
Obey 
Olver 
Ortiz 
Ose 
Owens 
Oxley 
Packard 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor 
Payne 
Pease 
Pelosi 
Peterson (MN) 
Peterson (PA) 
Phelps 
Pickering 
Pickett 
Pitts 
Pombo 
Pomeroy 
Porter 
Price (NC) 
Quinn 
Radanovich 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Regula 

Reyes Waxman Weygand Wolf 

Mr. YOUNG of Florida (during the

Reynolds Weldon (FL) Whitfield Woolsey 

reading). Mr. Chairman, I ask unani-

Riley Weldon (PA) Wicker Wynn 
Rodriguez Weller Wilson Young (AK) mous consent that the amendment be 
Roemer Wexler Wise Young (FL) considered as read and printed in the 

Rogers 

RECORD.

NOT VOTING—7

Ros-Lehtinen 
Roybal-Allard Brown (CA) Ford Waters 

The CHAIRMAN. Is there objection 
Rush Buyer McCollum to the request of the gentleman from 
Ryan (WI) Chenoweth Ney Florida? 
Ryun (KS) 

There was no objection.

b

Sabo 1755 

Sanchez 

Mr. VENTO and Mr. GILMAN

Sanders 
Sandlin changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 

b

1800 

Sawyer Messrs. DELAY, COBURN, KIND, Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Chair-

Saxton 

ISTOOK and LAZIO changed their vote man, the agriculture bill as we present

Schaffer 

Schakowsky from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’ it was at the 302(b) level, but was over 
Scott So the amendment was rejected. last year’s spending limits. In con-
Serrano The result of the vote was announced sultation with many Members on bothShaw as above recorded. sides of the aisle, we had some agree-

Sherman 
Sherwood Stated against: ment and some disagreement that we 
Shimkus Mr. BUYER. Mr. Chairman, on rollcall No. would make some adjustments in the

Shows 174, I was present and voted ‘‘no’’, but was total of this bill in order to make addi-

Shuster 

Simpson not recorded, this is my third new voting card. tional funding available for some of the 

Sisisky I will now seal a 4th voting card. other bills that will come along later. 
Skeen The CHAIRMAN. The Clerk will read. 

So we developed this amendment in

Skelton 

The Clerk read as follows: 

lieu of all of the amendments that our

Slaughter 

Smith (MI) This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Agriculture, friend from Oklahoma had filed in ad-
Smith (NJ) Rural Development, Food and Drug Adminis


vance of the consideration of the bill. 

Smith (TX) tration, and Related Agencies Appropria-

Mr. Chairman, this bill in its original

Smith (WA) tions Act, 2000’’. 

Snyder form is approximately $14 billion new

AMENDMENT OFFERED BY MR. YOUNG OF

Souder discretionary budget authority. This 
Spence 

FLORIDA 

amendment would reduce that amount 

Spratt Mr. YOUNG OF FLORIDA. Mr. Chair-

by $102,500,000.

Stabenow 

man, I offer an amendment.

Stark We have gone carefully through these

The Clerk read as follows:

Stearns accounts. What we are doing in most of

Stenholm Amendment offered by Mr. YOUNG of Flor-

these cases is delaying some construc-

Strickland 

ida: 

Stump tion, at least until next year, construc-

At the end of the bill, immediately pre-

Stupak tion that is not essential to the farm

ceding the short title, insert the following

Sweeney 

new section: programs that we are all trying to pre-

Talent 
Tancredo 

Sec. . Notwithstanding any other provi-serve. 
Tanner sion of this Act, appropriations under this By doing this amendment, we are 
Tauscher Act for the following agencies and activities able to guarantee that the money thatTauzin are hereby reduced to the following respec


is going into the system to help our

Taylor (MS) 

tive amounts: 

Taylor (NC) farmers as they are planting and as

Agriculture Buildings and

Terry they are preparing to harvest later in

Facilities and Rental

Thomas 

the year, that we help our farmers do

Payments: 
Thompson (MS) 

Thompson (CA) 

Repairs, Renovation and what we have to do to help them to 
Thornberry Construction ............... 0 stay alive, to keep the family farms 
Thune Cooperative State Re-and to keep those people who are pro-

Thurman 

search, Education and 

ducing the food for America, to keep

Tiahrt 

Extension Service: 

Towns them in business.

Integrated Activities ...... 0

Traficant This amendment, while it is a sub-

Agricultural Research

Turner 

stantial cut based on the overall

Service: 
Udall (NM) Buildings and Facilities 0 amount in the bill, it is not that great. 

Upton Rural Housing Service: It is merely in most of the cases post-
Velazquez Rural Housing Insurance poning until next year some of the con-
Vento Fund Program Ac-

Udall (CO) 

struction that we would have done

Visclosky 

count: 

Vitter originally in this bill. So I would ask

Administrative Ex-

Walden the Members to expedite the consider


penses ....................... $375,879,000

Walsh 

ation of this amendment so we can

Food and Drug Administra-
Watt (NC) tion: ................................ complete this bill and get it into con-
Watts (OK) Salaries and Expenses .... 1,198,384,000 ference. 

Watkins 

AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION AND RELATED AGENCIES 
[Fiscal year 2000] 

Amount in com-Amount in Revised amount 
mittee bill amendment by amendment 

Agriculture buildings and facilities and rental payments 1 ..................................................................................................................................................................................................... $166,364,000 ($26,000,000) $140,364,000 
Cooperative State Research Education and Extension Service: 
Integrated activities .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 10,000,000 (10,000,000) 0 
Agricultural Research Service: 
Buildings and Facilities .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 44,500,000 (44,500,000) 0 
Rural Housing Service: 
Rural Housing Insurance Fund program account administrative expenses .................................................................................................................................................................... 377,879,000 (2,000,000) 375,879,000 
Food and Drug Administration: 
Salaries and Expenses 2 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,218,384,000 (20,000,000) 1,198,384,000 
(102,500,000) ............................ 
1 Of which $26,000,000 shall be reduced from repairs, renovation, and construction. 
2 Of which $10,000,000 shall be reduced from payments to the General Services Administration. 


H3818 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I rise in 
opposition to the amendment. 

Mr. Chairman, we had heard on this 
side that this amendment might be 
coming, and I want to say to the chairman 
of our full committee, there is no 
Member that I would respect more in 
this House than the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. YOUNG). I believe he is a 
man of integrity who would want to do 
what is right for America, and especially 
for rural America, as troubled as 
she is right now. 

We have had an opportunity to review 
this amendment just for a few moments, 
and I would have to say overall 
to the membership that what this 
amendment does is it cuts an additional 
$102 million of the funds that are 
available to the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture to meet the needs of rural 
America. 

Now, let me say that I oppose the 
gentleman’s amendment, and I strongly 
oppose it. I am sorry that I have to 
do that, because the chairman of the 
subcommittee and I came out of subcommittee 
in hopes we could have the 
kind of bipartisan unity that has always 
characterized this bill when it 
reaches the floor. But I think that I 
have to oppose the bill today for many 
reasons. 

One of them is that, overall, if you 
look at the amount of funds that we 
will spend in our country today to 
serve the needs of rural America, we 
are about 33 percent under for the Year 
2000 what we will spend this year just 
to prevent the hemorrhages that are 
going on from coast to coast, whether 
it is cattle country in Florida, whether 
we are talking about grain producers in 
the Midwest, whether we are talking 
about cotton ranchers down in Texas 
or whether we are talking about the 
Salinas Valley in California. We are 
talking about a situation that just 
does not need Band-Aids, but serious 
repair. 

When we brought this bill for the 
Year 2000 to the floor, as uncomfortable 
as we were, we felt that, well, 
okay, so it is a big Band-Aid to get us 
through, but we know later in the year 
we are going to have to do more. Now 
for us to accept an additional $102 million 
in cuts is beyond what we feel is 
the right thing to do for America. 

This may be, with all due respect to 
the majority in this House, the right 
way to get you out of a political box 
among various warring factions inside 
the Republican Caucus, but it is not 
the right thing to do for America. 

For example, one of the major areas 
you cut is under the Agricultural Research 
Service. I do not know how 
many of you have ever been out in 
these Agricultural Research Service 
buildings. These are not fancy places. I 
mean, this is where the structures of 
the building kind of get rusty. These do 
not look like America’s defense facilities 
or America’s NASA facilities. Yet, 
in fact this is where the future of 
America is being reborn every day because 
of the general use of research 
that goes on. 

Yet in this cut, what do we do? We 
are cutting the Beltsville Agricultural 
Research Center by over $13 million. It 
affects the State of Maryland. For New 
York, the Plum Island Animal Disease 
Center. In Pennsylvania, the Eastern 
Regional Research Center. In California, 
both in Albany and in Davis, 
their research labs. In Illinois, and this 
one really surprised me, in Peoria, the 
National Center for the Agricultural 
Utilization Research Service. 

Now, that is only one of the many 
cuts in this bill. There is an additional 
$10 million in research that is cut from 
the Cooperative Research Service and 
our extension programs. When we cut 
that additional $10 million, that adds 
to the $3 million that was already cut 
below last year, so it is a net negative 
of $13 million in those cooperative research 
accounts below this year. 

Research really is the seed corn of 
the future, and, with what is going on 
in rural America today, we need every 
single dime of that research working to 
invent the new technologies for the future 
that can help us preserve our food 
and fiber and fuel production inside the 
boundaries of this country. 

We are very troubled by the additional 
$20 million cut proposed in this 
amendment in the Food and Drug Administration. 
Here we are talking 
about the inspection service for food 
safety. We all know what is going on 
across this country with added needs 
for food safety. We have had plenty of 
outbreaks, in everything from 
cyclosporin to E. coli, everything that 
has affected citizens across this country. 
We do not need to cut the salaries 
and expenses account for the Food and 
Drug Administration. 

I heard ad nauseam in our subcommittee 
about the need to approve 
different devices and prescription 
drugs, that FDA was not moving fast 
enough, we needed to do more. America 
was not moving fast enough to meet 
the commercial marketplace. We had 
to do more for FDA. Well, this budget 
does less for FDA. 

The CHAIRMAN. The time of the 
gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) 
has expired. 

(By unanimous consent, Ms. KAPTUR 
was allowed to proceed for 2 additional 
minutes.) 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I would 
also like to mention that one of the 
cuts in here relates to the repairs to 
the South Building along Independence 
Avenue here, the Agricultural Building, 
$26 million, a building whose heating 
and cooling systems dates back to 
the 1930s, the first major repair as we 
get ready for the 21st century. We have 
been waiting and waiting and waiting. 
This measure actually completely 
eliminates any construction, real improvements 
that could occur in that 
building, one of the relics around this 
city. 

So, Mr. Chairman, I would have to 
say I know the gentleman is struggling. 
For those of us on this subcommittee 
who have worked very hard 

for many months on this bill, this is an 
important moment for us. 

So I would say to the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. YOUNG), I strongly oppose 
the gentleman in his efforts to remove 
an additional $102 million from the accounts 
for the U.S. Department of Agriculture 
and the Food and Drug Administration, 
at a time when America 
is asking us to do more in these areas, 
and particularly now when rural America 
is in crisis. This is absolutely not 
the place to make these cuts. 

I would encourage the gentleman to 
go back and look at some of the other 
accounts, and would strongly urge the 
membership to vote no on this Young 
amendment. 

Mr. POMEROY. Mr. Chairman, 
move to strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, back in North Dakota 
this afternoon there are a number of 
farmers I represent wondering whether 
they will even be able to get through 
until next fall. We have had an unprecedented 
level of rain. It has destroyed 
the planting season, on top of the hardship 
they already faced because prices 
are below the cost of production, at a 
time when they have not been able to 
get for their crop what it costs them to 
grow the crop, and then on top of it 
production difficulties that have utterly 
disrupted their ability to get the 
crop in the ground. 

This is a time of crisis in North Dakota. 
I would think it is a time of crisis 
well beyond a provincial concern as 
a North Dakota Congressman, because 
I am talking constantly with many 
Members representing farmers around 
the country. While your production dimensions 
may be different than ours, 
the fundamental is the same: Prices 
have not covered the cost of production, 
and that is irrespective of commodity 
and irrespective of region, and 
it has given us a crisis in agriculture. 

I believe the floor consideration of 
the agriculture appropriations bill has 
been an utter travesty. At one point we 
had more than 100 amendments filed 
against it. Fortunately, we have 
worked that out. But now I cannot tell 
you how dispiriting it is to be an advocate 
for farmers in this country and 
have the chairman of the House Committee 
on Appropriations bring forward 
a $100-plus million cut. 

Let me just tell you where $10 million 
of that would fall: Research and 
extension. Now, when this body, under 
a Republican majority, passed the freedom 
to farm law, you told farmers 
things were going to be different and 
they were going to be wonderful. They 
were going to have freedom to do new 
things, freedom to plant, freedom to do 
all kinds of things based upon the marketplace. 


We know what has happened. Prices 
have collapsed and farmers are unprotected 
and farmers are going broke all 
over the country. 

The agriculture research and extension 
component of this budget is what 
we need to deliver on the promise you 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3819 

made to rural America, research to develop 
the new crop alternatives for people 
that cannot make money based on 
what they have been growing; new production 
methods that are more cost efficient, 
that will help keep these people 
in the game. It is part of the promise 
you made. Then extension, because it 
is extension that gets the research out 
of the universities and the land grant 
universities and out to the farmers so 
they can put it to work. 

Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Chairman, 
will the gentleman yield? 

Mr. POMEROY. I yield to the gentleman 
from Florida. 

Mr. YOUNG of Florida. A question: Is 
the gentleman aware that just a month 
ago in the supplemental we did add an 
additional $600 million over and above 
all the budgetary figures? So we are 
not ignoring the plight of the farmer. 
We are trying to expedite this bill to 
get this amendment considered, whether 
it goes up or down, and get the bill 
into conference, so this additional 
money can get into the hands of the 
farmer. We did just a month ago add 
another $600 million over and above 
every budget figure. 

Mr. POMEROY. Mr. Chairman, reclaiming 
my time, that was relative to 
a disaster, an emergency disaster occurring 
in agriculture. The Farm Bureau, 
another supporter of the freedom 
to farm bill, said you should have 
passed $6 billion, not $600 million. 

I do not lay this on the chairman’s 
shoulders. I have an enormous amount 
of respect for the chairman. But the 
fact of the matter is that that $600 million 
did not deal with extension and research, 
the $10 million I am talking 
about, and I cite that as an example. 

Just a few months earlier than that, 
you set a 302(b) allocation for the Subcommittee 
on Agriculture of the Committee 
on Appropriations. The gentleman 
from New Mexico (Chairman 
SKEEN) went to work, working with the 
ranking member, the gentlewoman 
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) and all of the 
Members. They came up with a bill 
within the allocation. They did everything 
right, and it is not right that agriculture 
should be bushwhacked on 
the floor of the House in this dark hour 
of despair by a $100 million cut. 

I urge Members, put party aside, put 
urban-rural aside, think about what is 
right and think about what is fair and 
reject this amendment. 

b1815 
The CHAIRMAN (Mr. PEASE). The 
question is on the amendment offered 
by the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
YOUNG). 
The question was taken; and the 
Chairman announced that the ayes appeared 
to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chairman, I demand 
a recorded vote. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 234, noes 195, 
not voting 6, as follows. 

Aderholt 
Archer 
Armey 
Bachus 
Baker 
Ballenger 
Barr 
Barrett (NE) 
Barrett (WI) 
Bartlett 
Barton 
Bass 
Bateman 
Bereuter 
Biggert 
Bilbray 
Bilirakis 
Bliley 
Blunt 
Boehlert 
Boehner 
Bonilla 
Bono 
Brady (TX) 
Bryant 
Burr 
Burton 
Buyer 
Callahan 
Calvert 
Camp 
Campbell 
Canady 
Cannon 
Castle 
Chabot 
Chambliss 
Coble 
Coburn 
Collins 
Combest 
Cook 
Cooksey 
Cox 
Crane 
Cubin 
Cunningham 
Davis (VA) 
Deal 
Delahunt 
DeLay 
DeMint 
Diaz-Balart 
Dickey 
Doggett 
Doolittle 
Doyle 
Dreier 
Duncan 
Dunn 
Ehlers 
Ehrlich 
Emerson 
English 
Everett 
Ewing 
Fletcher 
Foley 
Fossella 
Fowler 
Frank (MA) 
Franks (NJ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Gallegly 
Ganske 
Gekas 
Gibbons 
Gilchrest 

Abercrombie 
Ackerman 
Allen 
Andrews 
Baird 
Baldacci 
Baldwin 
Barcia 
Becerra 
Bentsen 
Berkley 
Berman 
Berry 
Bishop 
Blagojevich 
Blumenauer 

[Roll No. 175] 
AYES—234 

Gillmor 
Gilman 
Goode 
Goodlatte 
Goodling 
Goss 
Graham 
Granger 
Green (WI) 
Greenwood 
Gutknecht 
Hall (TX) 
Hansen 
Hastert 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayes 
Hayworth 
Hefley 
Herger 
Hill (MT) 
Hilleary 
Hobson 
Hoekstra 
Horn 
Hostettler 
Houghton 
Hulshof 
Hunter 
Hutchinson 
Hyde 
Isakson 
Istook 
Jenkins 
Johnson (CT) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones (NC) 
Kasich 
Kelly 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Kleczka 
Knollenberg 
Kolbe 
Kuykendall 
LaHood 
Largent 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Lazio 
Leach 
Lewis (CA) 
Lewis (KY) 
Linder 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Lucas (OK) 
Luther 
Manzullo 
Markey 
McCrery 
McHugh 
McInnis 
McIntosh 
McKeon 
Meehan 
Metcalf 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller, Gary 
Moran (KS) 
Moran (VA) 
Myrick 
Nethercutt 
Ney 
Northup 
Norwood 
Nussle 
Ose 

NOES—195 

Bonior 
Borski 
Boswell 
Boucher 
Boyd 
Brady (PA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brown (OH) 
Capps 
Capuano 
Cardin 
Carson 
Clay 
Clayton 
Clement 
Clyburn 

Oxley 
Packard 
Paul 
Pease 
Peterson (PA) 
Petri 
Pickering 
Pitts 
Pombo 
Porter 
Portman 
Pryce (OH) 
Quinn 
Radanovich 
Ramstad 
Regula 
Reynolds 
Riley 
Rogan 
Rogers 
Rohrabacher 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roukema 
Royce 
Ryan (WI) 
Ryun (KS) 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Saxton 
Scarborough 
Schaffer 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shadegg 
Shaw 
Shays 
Sherwood 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Skeen 
Smith (MI) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (WA) 
Souder 
Spence 
Stearns 
Stump 
Sununu 
Sweeney 
Talent 
Tancredo 
Tauzin 
Taylor (MS) 
Taylor (NC) 
Terry 
Thomas 
Thornberry 
Thune 
Tiahrt 
Tierney 
Toomey 
Traficant 
Upton 
Vitter 
Walden 
Walsh 
Wamp 
Watts (OK) 
Weldon (FL) 
Weldon (PA) 
Weller 
Whitfield 
Wicker 
Wilson 
Wolf 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 

Condit 
Conyers 
Costello 
Coyne 
Cramer 
Crowley 
Cummings 
Danner 
Davis (FL) 
Davis (IL) 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
DeLauro 
Deutsch 
Dicks 
Dingell 

Dixon 
Dooley 
Edwards 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Etheridge 
Evans 
Farr 
Fattah 
Filner 
Forbes 
Frost 
Gejdenson 
Gephardt 
Gonzalez 
Gordon 
Green (TX) 
Gutierrez 
Hall (OH) 
Hastings (FL) 
Hill (IN) 
Hilliard 
Hinchey 
Hinojosa 
Hoeffel 
Holden 
Holt 
Hooley 
Hoyer 
Inslee 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson-Lee 

(TX) 
Jefferson 
John 
Johnson, E. B. 
Jones (OH) 
Kanjorski 
Kaptur 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilpatrick 
Kind (WI) 
Klink 
Kucinich 
LaFalce 
Lampson 
Lantos 
Larson 
Lee 

Brown (CA) 
Chenoweth 

Levin 
Lewis (GA) 
Lofgren 
Lowey 
Lucas (KY) 
Maloney (CT) 
Maloney (NY) 
Martinez 
Mascara 
Matsui 
McCarthy (NY) 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McIntyre 
McKinney 
McNulty 
Meek (FL) 
Meeks (NY) 
Menendez 
Millender-

McDonald 
Miller, George 
Minge 
Mink 
Moakley 
Mollohan 
Moore 
Morella 
Murtha 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Oberstar 
Obey 
Olver 
Ortiz 
Owens 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Peterson (MN) 
Phelps 
Pickett 
Pomeroy 
Price (NC) 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Reyes 

NOT VOTING—6 

Ford 
McCarthy (MO) 

b1834 

Rivers 
Rodriguez 
Roemer 
Rothman 
Roybal-Allard 
Rush 
Sabo 
Sanchez 
Sanders 
Sandlin 
Sawyer 
Schakowsky 
Scott 
Serrano 
Sherman 
Shows 
Sisisky 
Skelton 
Slaughter 
Smith (TX) 
Snyder 
Spratt 
Stabenow 
Stark 
Stenholm 
Strickland 
Stupak 
Tanner 
Tauscher 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Thurman 
Towns 
Turner 
Udall (CO) 
Udall (NM) 
Velazquez 
Vento 
Visclosky 
Watkins 
Watt (NC) 
Waxman 
Weiner 
Wexler 
Weygand 
Wise 
Woolsey 
Wu 
Wynn 

McCollum 
Waters 

Mr. STRICKLAND and Ms. KILPATRICK 
changed their vote from 
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 

Mrs. KELLY and Messrs. LIPINSKI, 
TIERNEY, DELAHUNT, 
NETHERCUTT, TAUZIN, and SPENCE 
changed their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’ 

So the amendment was agreed to. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

Stated against: 

Ms. McCARTHY of Missouri. Mr. Chairman, 
on rollcall No. 175, I was unavoidably detained. 
Had I been present, I would have 
voted ‘‘no.’’ 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chairman, I move to 
strike the last word. 

Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to 
the passage of this bill. I regret doing 
so, and I intended to support it. The 
comity in this body requires, I think, 
that we give notice to one another of 
actions that are being taken. 

Now, I understand the Republican 
Conference met, and they have had 
trouble passing this bill, and they had 
a discussion. I do not know what went 
on. I was not in the conference. Apparently 
there was a determination, well, 
we will cut some programs from the 
bill. We will cut some items from the 
bill, $102.5 million. These items were 
cut after going through the subcommittee 
and full committee. 


H3820 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

My belief is that they were not cut 
substantively, that is to say, I do not 
believe for one second that a substantive 
judgment was made with reference 
to the merits of these particular 
projects. In my opinion, these cuts 
were made essentially as somewhat an 
across-the-board cut in order to get the 
requisite number of votes to pass this 
bill on the Republican side of the aisle. 

Now, when we were in charge, I opposed 
those kinds of amendments, and 
I oppose them when we are not in 
charge. 

My colleagues will not be surprised 
to learn that one of the projects cut 
was mine. Now, it was not mine personally, 
it was a lab facility, the Beltsville 
Agricultural Research Center, which 
this Nation has created. It happens to 
be located in my district. But it is 
America’s research facility, and it is 
the best research facility in the world. 

Every farmer, not just in America, 
but throughout the world relies on the 
research that that institution has produced. 
In fact, productivity at every 
farm in America and every farm in the 
world that uses our technology is very 
substantially up because of the product 
of the Beltsville Agricultural Research 
Center. 

I was not singled out. Peoria, Illinois, 
had a project; the gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. LAHOOD) took a hit. Others 
took a hit. So I do not perceive this to 
have been a partisan hit. I do not ascribe 
my colleagues’ motives as partisan. 
I ascribe them to needing to get 
votes. 

But I suggest to my colleagues, and I 
suggest to my colleagues on the other 
side, my side of the aisle, this is not 
the way to legislate. This is not the 
way to make critical judgments on the 
priorities of America. 

Now, I know one of my colleague’s 
Members had a lot of amendments, and 
he was going to offer hundreds perhaps 
until next week, and perhaps this got 
him on board. It appears that it did. He 
is not offering amendments anymore. 

I talked to the gentleman from Alaska 
(Chairman YOUNG) for whom I have 
not only great respect, but unrestrained 
affection. I think he is one of 
the finest Members of this body. 
Frankly, one of the other Members 
with whom I am very close, and he 
would say that, I hope it does not hurt 
his reputation, is the gentleman from 
New Mexico (Mr. SKEEN). I do not think 
they would have done this. I do not 
think they did do it. I think they were 
the instruments. 

But I do not think this is a good day 
for agriculture, for farmers, for consumers. 
I want to say something else 
about this bill. It plays a game, this 
$102 million. It takes $10 million in 
rental payments from FDA and says, 
we will not pay it. 

My colleagues just passed a bankruptcy 
act that said something about 
personal responsibility, about paying 
one’s bills. But in the amendment for 
which my colleagues just voted, they 
said, but one does not have to pay one’s 

rent, do not worry about it. So that 
when GSA goes to refurbish or maintain 
or build new facilities, there will 
not be any money in the pot. 

Why? Because we did not pay our 
rent. Guess what? It is free. It is supply 
side maintenance and building of capital 
assets. That is what this amendment 
does that my colleagues voted 
for. 

I would hope that my colleagues 
would vote against this bill. I would 
hope that we could go back to the 
board. If my colleagues want to cut, if 
the majority will is to cut, then let us 
do so in a rational, considered way, not 
by this, it was not midnight, but I had 
no notice of it, and I suggest that perhaps 
most Members did not have notice 
of it. 

I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this legislation. 

Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Chairman, I 
have watched the debate over agriculture appropriations 
for the past two days. Farmers 
are the backbone of my state. The economy 
of Wisconsin is based on agriculture—if our 
farmers suffer, the economy of our entire state 
suffers. These issues are vital to the people of 
the district I serve; however, no issue in agriculture 
is as vital to the farmers of Wisconsin 
as the reform of the dairy market order system. 


This country, one of the most technologically 
advanced countries in the world, continues, 
at the behest of Congress, to force an 
antiquated system of price-fixing in the dairy 
industry that violates every free market principle. 
Congress has been manipulating the 
dairy industry for far too long. This system had 
a purpose in the 1930’s; it was designed to 
encourage milk production in regions of this 
country that were suffering dairy shortages. 
But this system has outlived its usefulness. 
Advances in technology and transportation 
have eliminated the need for this system. 

The current marketing order is unfair and inefficient 
for a number of reasons. Not only 
does it force higher prices for dairy products 
based on distance from my home state of 
Wisconsin; it also allows the Northeast Dairy 
Compact to operate. This is not a free market 
system; in fact, it is a system that violates 
most free market principles. It encourages 
overproduction and inefficient methods of production. 


The farmers in my district are suffering because 
they live too close to Eau Claire, Wisconsin. 
How many members of Congress 
even know how far their district is from Eau 
Claire, Wisconsin? Yet the way dairy products 
are priced is based on that distance. Does 
that make sense to anyone? It surely doesn’t 
make sense to me or the farmers of Wisconsin—
a State where we are losing more 
family farms each year than many of you have 
in your entire state. 

Make no mistake about it—this system hurts 
Wisconsin and hurts Wisconsin farmers—and 
this Congress is responsible for that. The 
USDA reform initiative is a small step to alleviate 
a situation that has been plaguing dairy 
farmers in the Midwest for far too long. According 
to USDA analysis, incorporating the 
changes in the Federal Milk Marketing Order 
Class I differential prices lowers average annual 
revenue in all federal order markets by 
only $2.8 million and raises farm revenue for 
the U.S. by $3.2 million. As we all know, these 

price differentials do not represent the actual 
market price. This reform is essentially revenue 
neutral for a $25 billion industry; yet 
many of my colleagues continue to use scare 
tactics claiming that these changes will cost 
hundreds on millions of dollars. The USDA estimates 
that the reform will result in a loss to 
farmers in some districts of approximately 
$.02/per hundredweight. 

This system needs to be reformed because 
it unfairly penalizes the Midwest dairy farmers 
and it hurts consumers and taxpayers. They 
are being asked to subsidize inefficiencies in 
the production of dairy products. They are 
being asked to pay for a program that continues 
to waste their tax dollars. They are 
being asked to pay higher prices at the supermarket 
for food. 

We are no longer giving farmers in certain 
areas of the country an incentive to product 
more milk. We are now giving them an incentive 
to overproduce milk. This type of system 
does not provide an incentive for farmers to 
operate efficiently or to produce items that are 
natural to their agricultural environment. How 
can we vote against a system that encourages 
the market to operate more efficiently? 

If this House forces its will on the USDA, 
you will be silencing the voices of millions of 
farmers around the country who have been 
heard on this issue by USDA and deserve the 
right to vote on this reform. This reform must 
be supported by 2/3 of the farmers in a region 
before it can be implemented in that region. 

The USDA assures us that this reform will 
only create a more equitable free market system; 
it will not seriously impact prices paid for 
dairy products in any region of this country. It 
will be a win-win for everyone; I urge you to 
support these minute changes the USDA has 
made that will mean everything to the farmers 
in the first district of Wisconsin. 

Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Chairman, I rise 
in reluctant opposition to H.R. 1906, the Agriculture 
Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2000. 

It had been my intention to support 

H.R. 1906 because it contains many worthy, 
programs that are of benefit not just to our 
farmers, but to all Americans. However, in a 
last-minute ploy, the Republican leadership 
decided to make deep cuts to this bill that call 
into question their commitment to both American 
farmers and American consumers who 
rely on adequate funding for these programs. 
Those cuts included important agricultural construction 
projects in California, including improvements 
to the Agricultural Research Service’s 
Western Regional Research Center at Albany 
and construction of the Western Human 
Nutrition Laboratory at Davis. These projects 
are supported by the Department of Agriculture, 
they were in the President’s budget 
request, and there was no opposition to including 
the necessary construction funds prior 
to today. I am very disappointed that the Republican 
leadership has chosen to pull the rug 
out from under these vital facilities. 
H.R. 1906, as reported by the Appropriations 
Committee, was not a perfect bill, but I 
believe Chairman JOE SKEEN and Ranking 
Member MARCY KAPTUR and their subcommittee 
members did a commendable job 
under tough budget constraints to fund the 
many deserving programs in this bill. The last-
minute amendment offered by Rep. BILL 
YOUNG to appease the right wing of his party 
works against that spirit of bipartisanship. 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3821 

This bill’s scope, the so-called ‘‘agriculture’’ 
appropriations bill, is sweeping, from agriculture 
research, rural development and land 
conservation programs to food safety and operations 
of the Food and Drug Administration. 
Administration of our farm programs and marketing 
of our agricultural commodities is also 
included, yet the greatest share of the funding 
goes for nutrition programs, including food 
stamps, school breakfast and lunch, and the 
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for 
Women, Infants and Children or WIC. 

I’m particularly grateful to the committee for 
adding funding within the extension activities 
of the Cooperative State Research Education 
and Extension Service for an after-school program 
in Los Angeles. Our 4–H after school activity 
program is operating at 21 sites, and 
over 4,000 kids are participating in educational 
field trips, getting homework assistance and 
receiving other types of mentoring. This program 
is a wonderful antidote to the drug and 
gang activity to which many of the kids in my 
district are susceptible. I very much appreciate 
this one-time infusion of funding so we can 
sustain the program and establish a long-term 
partnership between the government and businesses 
in our community. 

I am also grateful that the bill contains an 
increase of $5 million for farm labor housing in 
the Rural Cooperative Service and $9 million 
for rural housing assistance grants, which can 
also be used for non-profit organizations of 
farm workers. Migrant and seasonal farmworkers 
are some of the nation’s most poorly 
housed populations. The last documented national 
study indicated a shortage of some 
800,000 units of affordable housing for farmworkers. 
However, farmworker households are 
some of the poorest, yet least assisted households 
in the nation. So, the need for housing 
is great, and the committee has responded, 
within its overall budget constraints, to make 
some needed progress in this area. 

The nutrition programs in this bill benefit 
many of my constituents and people of all 
ages across the United States. However, I 
share the concern that has been expressed 
about adequate funding for the WIC program. 
Prior studies have demonstrated that for every 
$1 spent on the WIC program, up to $3 is 
saved in costs to Medicaid and other federal 
programs. That easily makes WIC one of the 
most cost-effective programs administered by 
the federal government. Although the committee 
increased funding by $81 million over 
last year, the amount provided is $100 million 
less than the President’s budget request. 

WIC serves 1.2 million Californians, and we 
are making enormous strides in using the 
funds to serve all the mothers and children in 
need. On May 24, the California Department 
of Health Services lowered the maximum price 
it would pay for milk, eggs, cheese, cereal, 
juice and other foods in the WIC market basket 
in order to avoid having to cut 25,000 poor 
mothers and children from its roster. While 
other states may easily serve their WIC recipients 
with the funds distributed to them, California 
must use its funding shrewdly in order 
to serve all those in need. The Effective Food 
and Nutrition Education Program (EFNEP) of 
the Extension Service also plays an important 
role in working with WIC mothers and others 
to help them build positive lifelong nutrition 
habits and skill. I urge the chairman and the 
committee to reassess the WIC funding level 
during its conference with the Senate in order 

to ensure that no qualified women and children 
miss out on the benefits of this program, 
which contribute to a healthy America. 

California is the largest agricultural producing 
state in the nation, and I am phased 
that the committee has recommended funding 
for other programs of benefit to our farmers. 
Unlike many producers in the Midwest who 
have long benefited from agriculture price support 
programs, many of our California producers 
have been engaged in market-oriented 
agriculture for many years. That’s why the 
Market Access Program (MAP) is so important 
to our cooperatives, small farmers and other 
producers who are making aggressive efforts 
to expand markets overseas. I’m pleased that 
the committee has funded MAP at its full authorized 
level. 

In addition, agricultural research into the 
special problems that affect California commodities 
takes on added importance to our 
producers. Research into integrated pest management 
and into alternatives to methyl bromide 
are just some of the vital research 
projects under way at the University of California, 
and funding for the Agricultural Research 
Service, for cooperative federal-state 
research, for competitive research grants, and 
for special research grants are all important 
parts of this bill. 

There are many other programs in the bill 
that I could comment on, including the food 
safety program and the youth anti-tobacco initiative 
in the Food and Drug Administration. 
These are areas where we would all like to do 
more if possible, but the committee originally 
reported a responsible bill based on its budget 
allocation. Now these partisan floor shenanigans 
call into question our ability to improve 
funding for these programs if opportunities 
present themselves later in the appropriations 
endgame. 

In short, I would like to support this bill and 
the programs of benefit to my constituents and 
the people of California and the nation. However, 
I cannot in good conscience vote for 
final passage because the Republican majority 
has made a decision to depart from the usual 
bipartisan manner in which we consider this 
bill, in pursuit of their own political purposes. 
I hope that the House-Senate conference 
committee will make the needed improvements 
in this bill that will draw the customary 
widespread, bipartisan support before we send 
the final version to the President late in this 
fiscal year. 

Mr. MALONEY of Connecticut. Mr. Chairman, 
I rise in support of the Food Contact Notification 
(FCN) program. The FCN program 
was authorized in the Food and Drug Administration 
Modernization Act of 1997, and received 
start-up funding in FY 1999. However, 
FY 2000 Agriculture Appropriations does not 
provide additional money. Without a funding 
source, either in the FY 2000 Agriculture Appropriations 
or through user fees, this program 
will not be implemented. 

By reducing a significant regulatory burden, 
the FCN reforms expedite the approval of food 
contact substances, like plastic, paper and 
aluminum used in food packaging. Under this 
new streamlined regulatory system, it would 
be possible for safe food-contact materials to 
be marketed after only 120 days of filing notification 
with the FDA—shortening the current 
process from as much as six years to only a 
few months. Both consumers and manufacturers 
would benefit by the availability of better 
products in a more timely manner. 

In fact, during the FY 2000 Agriculture Appropriations 
hearing the Committee recognized 
the value of the FCN program. Despite that 
endorsement, I am concerned that both the 
Committee and the Administration are relying 
on the future authorization of user fees to fund 
the FCN program. Yet to date, no fee authorization 
bill has been introduced, much less 
discussed in any detail. Without either an appropriation 
or an assurance of user fee authorization, 
the FCN program will not be implemented, 
and important progress in food packaging 
will be delayed. 

It will be unfortunate if this innovative new 
program was unintentionally thwarted. For that 
reason, I urge the Chairman and Ranking 
Member to assure that at least the authorized 
level of funding be made available in the event 
that a fee system cannot be enacted in time 
for FY 2000. 

The CHAIRMAN. There being no further 
amendments, under the rule, the 
Committee rises. 

Accordingly, the Committee rose; 
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. 
LAHOOD) having assumed the chair, Mr. 
PEASE, Chairman of the Committee of 
the Whole House on the State of the 
Union, reported that that Committee, 
having had under consideration the bill 

(H.R. 1906) making appropriations for 
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related 
Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2000, and for other purposes, 
pursuant to House Resolution 185, he 
reported the bill back to the House 
with sundry amendments adopted by 
the Committee of the Whole. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the rule, the previous question is ordered. 


Is there a separate vote demanded on 
any amendment? If not, the Chair will 
put them en gros. 

The amendments were agreed to. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the engrossment and 
third reading of the bill. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, and was read the 
third time. 

b1845 

MOTION TO RECOMMIT 

Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I offer a motion 
to recommit. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
LAHOOD). Is the gentleman opposed to 
the bill? 

Mr. OBEY. Yes, I am, Mr. Speaker. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will report the motion to recommit. 


The Clerk read as follows: 

Mr. OBEY moves to recommit the bill H.R. 
1906 to the Committee on Appropriations 
with instructions to report the same back to 
the House forthwith with the following 
amendment: 

At the end of the bill, before the short 
title, insert the following new section: 

‘‘SEC. . Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this Act, the amount otherwise provided 
for salaries and expenses for the Food 
and Drug Administration is hereby increased 
by $20,000,000.’’ 

Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I am opposed 
to this bill in its present form. In 


H3822 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

substance, we will be providing one-
third fewer dollars this year than we 
are providing at the present time to 
support the needs of our farmers, and 
that creates no compulsion at all to 
vote for this bill as far as I am concerned. 


This recommittal motion restores $21 
million to the Food and Drug Administration 
just cut by the previous amendment. 
Now, those who are opposed to 
this amendment will say the money is 
not needed. If that is the case, I would 
ask one simple question: Why did we 
put it in the bill in the first place? 

This cut, as the gentleman from 
Maryland indicated, was not made to 
solve any substantive problem with the 
bill. It was made to simply solve a political 
problem within the majority 
party caucus because the problem was 
that last week they had a worse week 
than Charismatic and they were trying 
to figure out how to recover. And so 
what they decided to do is to try to 
take a nip and a tuck out of some bills 
without regard to the substantive effect. 


This amendment was not meant to 
solve a substantive problem. It was 
meant to simply help the majority 
party get another week through the 
legislative agenda while they try to 
figure out how to correct the fact that 
they are essentially $35 billion from reality 
in terms of overall appropriations. 


If Members are opposed to this 
amendment, I would simply ask: Are 
we really doing too much to achieve 
food safety in this country? Are we 
really doing too much to inspect foreign 
fruits and vegetables? Are we really 
doing too much to speed the delivery 
of new life-saving drugs to the marketplace? 


We will, sometime this year, be voting 
on about $15 billion for the National 
Institutes of Health. About $5 
billion of that will be for cancer research. 
We have been told that the 
chairman of the subcommittee on the 
majority side wants to double spending 
for the National Institutes of Health 
over the next 5 years. That is a lot of 
‘‘blagole.’’ 

But no matter how much we put into 
research, if we contribute to bottlenecks 
at FDA, we are delaying the day 
when new life-saving drugs will reach 
the marketplace; life-saving drugs that 
deal with cancer, that deal with Parkinson’s 
Disease, that deal with every 
other disease known to man. 

I would urge my colleagues when 
they cast their votes tonight on this 
amendment to vote on substance, not 
politics; vote to restore this badly 
needed $21 million. That is the least we 
can do to correct some of the damage 
just done by the previous amendment. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, will the 
gentleman yield? 

Mr. OBEY. I yield to the gentlewoman 
from Ohio. 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I would 
just say to the gentleman that this 
particular Member is going to support 

the gentleman’s motion to recommit 
and then will end the evening by voting 
against the bill, which I apologize to 
the subcommittee chair and to the full 
committee chair. It was not my intention 
as a loyal member, having gone 
through all those meetings, to do that. 
And I would urge all my colleagues to 
vote ‘‘no’’ on final passage as well, and 
I feel sad to do that today. 

Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise in opposition to the motion. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, will 
the gentleman yield? 

Mr. YOUNG of Florida. I yield to the 
gentleman from Georgia. 

Mr. KINGSTON. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the gentleman for yielding to 
me. 

Just 2 years ago, Mr. Speaker, we all 
popped the champagne corks and celebrated 
the passage of a bipartisan 
budget agreement signed by the President 
of the United States, the Democrats 
and the Republicans in the Congress, 
and now it is time to follow 
through on that agreement. We must, 
on both sides of the aisle, follow 
through on our obligation. 

Look what is ahead in terms of 
spending: Veterans’ bills, processing of 
their health care claims, water and 
sewer grants, housing for the low income, 
education, money for teachers, 
Medicaid, children’s health and immunizations, 
money for the National Park 
Service for land acquisition, for trails, 
for shelters, for the Department of Interior, 
research money for diabetes, 
Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis, heart, 
jobs programs of all natures. In essence, 
this is only the first appropriations 
bill. Everything else that is in 
our $1.7 trillion budget lies down the 
road. 

By supporting this decrease in funding 
on this bill right now, we free up 
more money down the road to have 
more options on these very, very important 
programs, and that is why we 
need to pass the bill in its present 
form, as amended. 

Mr. YOUNG of Florida. Mr. Speaker, 
reclaiming my time, let me simply say 
that we in the House and our colleagues 
in the Senate and our President 
at the White House agreed to a 
balanced budget proposal in 1997. We 
set budget caps for this fiscal year and 
for the next fiscal year. And if my colleagues 
think this year is tough, wait 
till next year, because that budget cap 
goes down even more than it did this 
year. 

But if we are going to be true to ourselves, 
if we are going to be true to the 
fiscal restraint that we put into effect 
and that all of our leaders signed off 
on, if we are going to stay within that 
budget cap, we are going to have to 
make some tough decisions, and today 
we are making some tough decisions. 

Vote against this motion to recommit, 
vote for the bill. Let us get this 
bill into conference and get the money 
on the way to the American farmers 
where the help is really needed and 
bring that amount up to over $14 bil


lion just in the supplemental for 1999 
and this fiscal year 2000 bill. 

Make the tough choice, vote against 
this motion and let us pass this bill 
and get it to conference. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without 
objection, the previous question is ordered 
on the motion to recommit. 

There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion to recommit. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Mr. OBEY. Mr. Speaker, I demand a 
recorded vote. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 207, noes 220, 

not voting 8, as follows: 

Abercrombie 
Ackerman 
Allen 
Andrews 
Baird 
Baldacci 
Baldwin 
Barcia 
Barrett (WI) 
Becerra 
Bentsen 
Berkley 
Berman 
Berry 
Bishop 
Blagojevich 
Blumenauer 
Bonior 
Borski 
Boswell 
Boucher 
Boyd 
Brady (PA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brown (OH) 
Capps 
Capuano 
Cardin 
Carson 
Clay 
Clayton 
Clement 
Clyburn 
Condit 
Conyers 
Costello 
Coyne 
Cramer 
Crowley 
Cummings 
Danner 
Davis (FL) 
Davis (IL) 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
Delahunt 
DeLauro 
Deutsch 
Dicks 
Dingell 
Dixon 
Doggett 
Dooley 
Doyle 
Edwards 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Etheridge 
Evans 
Farr 
Fattah 
Filner 
Frank (MA) 
Frost 
Gejdenson 
Gephardt 
Gonzalez 
Gordon 

[Roll No. 176] 

AYES—207 

Green (TX) 
Gutierrez 
Hall (OH) 
Hall (TX) 
Hastings (FL) 
Hill (IN) 
Hilliard 
Hinchey 
Hinojosa 
Hoeffel 
Holden 
Holt 
Hooley 
Hoyer 
Inslee 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson-Lee 

(TX) 
Jefferson 
John 
Johnson, E.B. 
Jones (OH) 
Kanjorski 
Kaptur 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilpatrick 
Kind (WI) 
Kleczka 
Klink 
Kucinich 
LaFalce 
Lampson 
Lantos 
Larson 
Lee 
Levin 
Lewis (GA) 
Lipinski 
Lofgren 
Lowey 
Lucas (KY) 
Luther 
Maloney (CT) 
Maloney (NY) 
Markey 
Martinez 
Mascara 
Matsui 
McCarthy (MO) 
McCarthy (NY) 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McIntyre 
McKinney 
McNulty 
Meehan 
Meek (FL) 
Meeks (NY) 
Menendez 
Millender-

McDonald 
Miller, George 
Minge 
Mink 
Moakley 
Mollohan 
Moore 

Moran (VA) 
Murtha 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Oberstar 
Obey 
Olver 
Ortiz 
Owens 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Peterson (MN) 
Phelps 
Pickett 
Pomeroy 
Price (NC) 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Reyes 
Rivers 
Rodriguez 
Roemer 
Rothman 
Roybal-Allard 
Rush 
Sabo 
Sanchez 
Sanders 
Sandlin 
Sawyer 
Schakowsky 
Scott 
Serrano 
Sherman 
Shows 
Sisisky 
Skelton 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Snyder 
Spratt 
Stabenow 
Stark 
Stenholm 
Strickland 
Stupak 
Tanner 
Tauscher 
Taylor (MS) 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Thurman 
Tierney 
Towns 
Turner 
Udall (CO) 
Udall (NM) 
Velazquez 
Vento 
Visclosky 
Watt (NC) 
Waxman 
Weiner 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3823 

Wexler 
Weygand 

Aderholt 
Archer 
Armey 
Bachus 
Baker 
Ballenger 
Barr 
Barrett (NE) 
Bartlett 
Barton 
Bass 
Bateman 
Bereuter 
Biggert 
Bilbray 
Bilirakis 
Bliley 
Blunt 
Boehlert 
Boehner 
Bonilla 
Bono 
Brady (TX) 
Bryant 
Burr 
Burton 
Callahan 
Calvert 
Camp 
Campbell 
Canady 
Cannon 
Castle 
Chabot 
Chambliss 
Coble 
Coburn 
Collins 
Combest 
Cook 
Cooksey 
Cox 
Crane 
Cubin 
Cunningham 
Davis (VA) 
Deal 
DeLay 
DeMint 
Diaz-Balart 
Dickey 
Doolittle 
Dreier 
Duncan 
Dunn 
Ehlers 
Ehrlich 
Emerson 
English 
Everett 
Ewing 
Fletcher 
Foley 
Forbes 
Fossella 
Fowler 
Franks (NJ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Gallegly 
Ganske 
Gekas 
Gibbons 
Gilchrest 
Gillmor 

Brown (CA) 
Buyer 
Chenoweth 

Wise 
Woolsey 

NOES—220 

Gilman 
Goode 
Goodlatte 
Goodling 
Goss 
Graham 
Granger 
Green (WI) 
Greenwood 
Gutknecht 
Hansen 
Hastert 
Hastings (WA) 
Hayes 
Hayworth 
Hefley 
Herger 
Hill (MT) 
Hobson 
Hoekstra 
Horn 
Hostettler 
Houghton 
Hulshof 
Hunter 
Hutchinson 
Hyde 
Isakson 
Istook 
Jenkins 
Johnson (CT) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jones (NC) 
Kasich 
Kelly 
King (NY) 
Kingston 
Knollenberg 
Kolbe 
Kuykendall 
LaHood 
Largent 
Latham 
LaTourette 
Lazio 
Leach 
Lewis (CA) 
Lewis (KY) 
Linder 
LoBiondo 
Lucas (OK) 
Manzullo 
McCrery 
McHugh 
McInnis 
McIntosh 
McKeon 
Metcalf 
Miller (FL) 
Miller, Gary 
Moran (KS) 
Morella 
Myrick 
Nethercutt 
Ney 
Northup 
Norwood 
Nussle 
Ose 
Oxley 
Packard 
Paul 
Pease 
Peterson (PA) 

NOT VOTING—8 

Ford 
Hilleary 
McCollum 

b1907 

Mr. MICA. Mr. Speaker on rollcall No. 176, 
I was avoidably detained. Had I been present, 
I would have voted ‘‘no.’’ 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
LAHOOD). The question is on the passage 
of the bill. 

Pursuant to clause 10 of rule XX, the 
yeas and nays are ordered. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 246, nays 
183, not voting 6, as follows: 

Wu 
Wynn 

Petri 
Pickering 
Pitts 
Pombo 
Porter 
Portman 
Pryce (OH) 
Quinn 
Radanovich 
Ramstad 
Regula 
Reynolds 
Riley 
Rogan 
Rogers 
Rohrabacher 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roukema 
Royce 
Ryan (WI) 
Ryun (KS) 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Saxton 
Scarborough 
Schaffer 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shadegg 
Shaw 
Shays 
Sherwood 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Skeen 
Smith (MI) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Souder 
Spence 
Stearns 
Stump 
Sununu 
Sweeney 
Talent 
Tancredo 
Tauzin 
Taylor (NC) 
Terry 
Thomas 
Thornberry 
Thune 
Tiahrt 
Toomey 
Traficant 
Upton 
Vitter 
Walden 
Walsh 
Wamp 
Watkins 
Watts (OK) 
Weldon (FL) 
Weldon (PA) 
Weller 
Whitfield 
Wicker 
Wilson 
Wolf 
Young (AK) 
Young (FL) 

Mica 
Waters 

Mr. CAMP changed his vote from 
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’ 

Mr. DOYLE and Mr. MCINTYRE 
changed their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’ 

So the motion to recommit was rejected. 


The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

[Roll No. 177] 
YEAS—246 
Abercrombie Gallegly Nussle 
Aderholt Ganske Ortiz 
Archer Gekas Ose 
Armey Gibbons Oxley 
Bachus Gilchrest Packard 
Baker Gillmor Pease 
Ballenger Gilman Peterson (PA) 
Barcia Goode Petri 
Barr Goodlatte Pickering 
Barrett (NE) Goodling Pickett 
Bartlett Goss Pitts 
Barton Graham Pombo 
Bass Granger Porter 
Bateman Green (WI) Portman 
Bentsen Greenwood Pryce (OH) 
Bereuter Gutknecht Quinn 
Biggert Hall (OH) Radanovich 
Bilbray Hall (TX) Ramstad 
Bilirakis Hansen Regula 
Bishop Hastert Reyes 
Bliley Hastings (WA) Reynolds 
Blunt Hayes Riley 
Boehlert Hayworth Roemer 
Boehner Herger Rogan 
Bonilla Hill (MT) Rogers 
Bonior Hilleary Rohrabacher 
Bono Hobson Ros-Lehtinen 
Boswell Hoekstra Roukema 
Brady (TX) Horn Ryan (WI) 
Bryant Hostettler Ryun (KS) 
Burr Houghton Salmon 
Burton Hulshof Sanford 
Buyer Hunter Saxton 
Callahan Hutchinson Schaffer 
Calvert Hyde Sessions 
Camp Isakson Shadegg 
Campbell Istook Shaw 
Canady Jenkins Sherwood 
Cannon John Shimkus 
Castle Johnson (CT) Shows 
Chabot Johnson, Sam Shuster 
Chambliss Jones (NC) Simpson 
Coble Kasich Sisisky 
Coburn Kelly Skeen 
Collins King (NY) Skelton 
Combest Kingston Smith (MI) 
Condit Knollenberg Smith (NJ) 
Cook Kolbe Smith (TX) 
Cooksey Kuykendall Souder 
Cox LaFalce Spence 
Cramer LaHood Stabenow 
Crane Largent Strickland 
Cubin Latham Stump 
Cunningham LaTourette Sununu 
Danner Lazio Sweeney 
Davis (VA) Leach Talent 
Deal Lewis (CA) Tauzin 
DeLay Lewis (KY) Taylor (MS) 
DeMint Linder Taylor (NC) 
Diaz-Balart Lipinski Terry 
Dickey LoBiondo Thomas 
Dooley Lucas (OK) Thornberry 
Doolittle Manzullo Thune 
Doyle McCrery Tiahrt 
Dreier McHugh Toomey 
Duncan McInnis Traficant 
Dunn McIntosh Upton 
Edwards McIntyre Vitter 
Ehlers McKeon Walden 
Ehrlich Metcalf Walsh 
Emerson Mica Wamp 
English Miller (FL) Watkins 
Evans Miller, Gary Watts (OK) 
Everett Mollohan Weldon (FL) 
Ewing Moore Weldon (PA) 
Fletcher Moran (KS) Weller 
Foley Morella Whitfield 
Forbes Myrick Wicker 
Fossella Nethercutt Wilson 
Fowler Ney Wolf 
Franks (NJ) Northup Young (AK) 

Ackerman 
Allen 
Andrews 
Baird 
Baldacci 
Baldwin 
Barrett (WI) 
Becerra 
Berkley 
Berman 
Berry 
Blagojevich 
Blumenauer 
Borski 
Boucher 
Boyd 
Brady (PA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brown (OH) 
Capps 
Capuano 
Cardin 
Carson 
Clay 
Clayton 
Clement 
Clyburn 
Conyers 
Costello 
Coyne 
Crowley 
Cummings 
Davis (FL) 
Davis (IL) 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
Delahunt 
DeLauro 
Deutsch 
Dicks 
Dingell 
Dixon 
Doggett 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Etheridge 
Farr 
Fattah 
Filner 
Frank (MA) 
Frost 
Gejdenson 
Gephardt 
Gonzalez 
Gordon 
Green (TX) 
Gutierrez 
Hastings (FL) 
Hefley 
Hill (IN) 
Hilliard 
Hinchey 

Brown (CA) 
Chenoweth 

NAYS—183 

Hinojosa 
Hoeffel 
Holden 
Holt 
Hooley 
Hoyer 
Inslee 
Jackson (IL) 
Jackson-Lee 

(TX) 
Jefferson 
Johnson, E. B. 
Jones (OH) 
Kanjorski 
Kaptur 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilpatrick 
Kind (WI) 
Kleczka 
Klink 
Kucinich 
Lampson 
Lantos 
Larson 
Lee 
Levin 
Lewis (GA) 
Lofgren 
Lowey 
Lucas (KY) 
Luther 
Maloney (CT) 
Maloney (NY) 
Markey 
Martinez 
Mascara 
Matsui 
McCarthy (MO) 
McCarthy (NY) 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McKinney 
McNulty 
Meehan 
Meek (FL) 
Meeks (NY) 
Menendez 
Millender-

McDonald 
Miller, George 
Minge 
Mink 
Moakley 
Moran (VA) 
Murtha 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Oberstar 
Obey 
Olver 

NOT VOTING—6 

Ford 
McCollum 

b1923 

Owens 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pastor 
Paul 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Peterson (MN) 
Phelps 
Pomeroy 
Price (NC) 
Rahall 
Rangel 
Rivers 
Rodriguez 
Rothman 
Roybal-Allard 
Royce 
Rush 
Sabo 
Sanchez 
Sanders 
Sandlin 
Sawyer 
Scarborough 
Schakowsky 
Scott 
Sensenbrenner 
Serrano 
Shays 
Sherman 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Snyder 
Spratt 
Stark 
Stearns 
Stenholm 
Stupak 
Tancredo 
Tanner 
Tauscher 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Thurman 
Tierney 
Towns 
Turner 
Udall (CO) 
Udall (NM) 
Velazquez 
Vento 
Visclosky 
Watt (NC) 
Waxman 
Weiner 
Weygand 
Wise 
Woolsey 
Wu 
Wynn 

Waters 
Wexler 

Mr. SHAYS changed his vote from 
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’ 

So the bill was passed. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 


SPECIAL ORDERS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
SHIMKUS). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of January 6, 1999, and 
under a previous order of the House, 
the following Members will be recognized 
for 5 minutes each. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Indiana (Mr. BURTON) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. BURTON of Indiana addressed 

Stated against: Frelinghuysen Norwood Young (FL) the House. His remarks will appear 


H3824 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

hereafter in the Extensions of Remarks.) 


f 


MY TRIBUTE TO DR. HOWARD 
CAREY: A GOOD NEIGHBOR 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from California (Mr. FILNER) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. FILNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize the 30th anniversary 
of Dr. Howard Carey’s commitment to 
the Neighborhood House Association 
and to his role as president and chief 
executive officer since 1972. Dr. Carey 
brings more than 35 years of experience 
in the field of social work, from both 
administrative and program perspectives 
to this leadership position. Serving 
more than 300,000 San Diego residents, 
Neighborhood House is one of 
the largest nonprofit organizations in 
San Diego, a multipurpose social welfare 
agency whose goal is to improve 
the quality of life of the people served. 
Since Dr. Carey assumed leadership, 
Neighborhood House has grown from a 
budget of $400,000 and a staff of 35 to its 
current budget of $50 million with a 
staff of 800. 

Its multitude of services to strengthen 
families and to assist them in becoming 
self-sufficient include not only 
the two for which it is best known, 
Head Start, which reaches 6,500 preschoolers 
in 70 centers and its food 
bank program which collects and distributes 
12 million pounds of food annually, 
but also housing, counseling, 
adult day care, emergency food and 
shelter and inner city youth enrichment 
program, employment training 
centers, health services for the mentally 
ill and elderly, and a senior citizen 
service center. 

Dr. Carey’s motto, ‘‘being a good 
neighbor,’’ is emulated by the extended 
families of employees at Neighborhood 
House and reaches from the Mexican 
border to the northern reaches of San 
Diego County. His legacy is one of excellence. 
A professional in the best 
sense of this word, he is a man of 
honor, strength and determination. He 
is dedicated to service and to making 
life better for his neighbors who are in 
need. 

Dr. Carey is a native of Lexington, 
Mississippi, a graduate of Atlanta’s 
Morehouse College, and holds graduate 
degrees from Atlanta University and 
United States International University. 
He became enchanted with San 
Diego during his 4 years of military 
service with the United States Navy 
and returned with his wife, the former 
Yvonne Arnold of Newnan, Georgia, a 
graduate of Spelman College. Dr. Carey 
and his wife are the parents of two 
adult children who are themselves 
graduates of Morehouse and Spelman. 
One would think that his service to the 
community through his work at the 
Neighborhood House would fill his days 
entirely but Dr. Carey’s service extends 
to leadership and participation in 
many community organizations and 
local activities. 

b1930 

He is chairman of the board of Neighborhood 
National Bank, a San Diego-
based community bank which spurs development 
in inner city neighborhoods. 
He was a founding member of Union 
Bank of California’s Community Advisory 
Board to advise bank managers on 
the financial needs of low-income and 
underserved communities. He has held 
policy-making and advisory positions 
at the Neighborhood Development 
Bank, San Diego Unified School District, 
United Way, the Minority Relations 
Committee, the Black Leadership 
Council, former San Diego Mayor 
Maureen O’Connor’s Black Advisory 
Committee, a Congressional Black Affairs 
Subcommittee, the Black-Jewish 
Dialogue, the National Conference of 
Christians and Jews, the Coalition for 
Equity and San Diego County’s Child 
Care Task Force. 

Professionally he has contributed as 
a professor at San Diego State University, 
as a lecturer at the University of 
California, San Diego, and at National 
University of San Diego and as instructor 
for Wooster College in Ohio and at 
San Diego Community College. His further 
professional associations include 
charter membership in LEAD, the National 
Association of Social Workers, 
the National Association of Black Social 
Workers; a founding member of the 
San Diego Chapter of Alpha Pi Phi Fraternity, 
Sigma Pi Phi Fraternity, 
Alpha Kappa Delta, Morehouse College 
Alumni Association, San Diego Dialogue 
and the National Conference of 
Social Welfare. 

As impressive as this list is, it does 
not do justice to Dr. Carey. It is his 
passion for service that leads him into 
these activities. He knows that extraordinary 
measures are sometimes 
needed to strengthen communities and 
families, and he is always willing to go 
that extra mile. Because Dr. Carey and 
the work of Neighborhood House 
reaches deep into the hearts and minds 
of his neighbors and changes lives, his 
contributions to our community are 
far-reaching, long-lasting and immeasurable. 
I sincerely appreciate this opportunity 
to honor Dr. Carey and his 
many contributions to San Diego during 
the past 3 decades. 

f 


ANNOUNCEMENT REGARDING 
AMENDMENT PROCESS FOR H.R. 
1501, ADDRESSING YOUTH VIOLENCE 
AND CHILDREN’S SAFETY; 
AND H.R. 1000, AVIATION INVESTMENT 
AND REFORM ACT 
FOR THE 21ST CENTURY 

Mr. DREIER. Mr. Speaker, the Committee 
on Rules is planning to meet 
the week of June 14 to grant a rule 
which may limit the amendment process 
for floor consideration of H.R. 1501, 
a bill addressing youth violence and 
children’s safety. Any Member wishing 
to offer an amendment should submit 
55 copies and a brief explanation of the 
amendment to the Committee on Rules 

in Room H–312 in the Capitol by noon 
this Friday, June 11. Amendments 
should be drafted to H.R. 1501 as introduced. 
Members should know that the 
Committee on Rules may consider 
amendments relating to the causes of 
and solutions to youth violence and 
certain firearms proposals. 

Mr. Speaker, the Committee on Rules 
is also planning to meet the week of 
June 14 to grant a rule which may 
limit the amendment process on H.R. 
1000, the Aviation Investment Reform 
Act for the 21st century, the so-called 
Air 21 bill. Any Member who wishes to 
offer an amendment should submit, 
again, 55 copies and a brief explanation 
of the amendment by noon this coming 
Monday, June 14, to the Committee on 
Rules, once again, upstairs in Room 312 
here in the Capitol. Amendments 
should be drafted to the text of the bill 
as reported by the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure on 
May 27. The committee filed this report 
on H.R. 1000 on May 28. Members 
should use the Office of Legislative 
Counsel to assure that their amendments 
are properly drafted and should 
check with the Office of the Parliamentarian 
to be certain their amendments 
comply with the rules of the House. 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from North Carolina (Mr. 
JONES) is recognized for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. JONES of North Carolina addressed 
the House. His remarks will appear 
hereafter in the Extensions of Remarks.) 


f 


INTRODUCTION OF THE RAILWAY 

SAFETY AND FUNDING EQUITY 

ACT OF 1999 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. LIPINSKI) is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to speak about the Railroad 
Safety and Funding Equity Act of 1999, 
legislation that I have introduced 
today along with my friend and colleague, 
the gentleman from Alabama 
(Mr. CRAMER). Also known as RSAFE, 
this bill will increase funding for a fartoo-
long-overlooked aspect of highway 
and railroad safety grade crossings. 

With record levels of motorists on 
our Nation’s roads and highways and 
with a record amount of freight being 
moved by rail, the lack of our nation’s 
commitment to funding safety programs 
is nearing dangerous levels. 
RSAFE will bolster our Nation’s commitment 
by almost doubling the current 
Federal grade crossing improvement 
program. 

As two recent train crashes in Illinois 
showed, one a fatal crash in Bourbonnais 
and the other in my district in 
LaGrange, much more can and should 
be done to upgrade safety at railroad to 
highway grade crossings. For too long 
policymakers have accepted it as fact 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3825 

that grade crossings are dangerous, and 
they have left it at that. RSAFE will 
take the 4.3 cents per gallon diesel fuel 
tax that railroads currently pay towards 
deficit reduction and transfer it 
into the Department of Transportation 
Section 130 Grade Crossing Safety program. 
This money will then be distributed 
to the States on a formula basis. 

Based on estimates of railroads’ tax 
receipts, RSAFE will add approximately 
$125 million or more to the current 
$150 million in the Section 130 program. 
Therefore, among other things, 
RSAFE will give States much more 
ability to construct gates at grade 
crossings, develop and acquire new 
technology that could serve as alternatives 
to whistle-blowing and generally 
remove hazards at grade crossings. 


RSAFE also mandates that 5 percent 
of the new funding will be spent for 
education and awareness campaigns, 
such as Operation Lifesaver. Operation 
Lifesaver works with local law enforcement 
officials and others to make pedestrians 
and motorists aware of the 
dangers at grade crossings. RSAFE 
also puts 10 percent of the new funding 
towards upgrading rail-to-rail crossings. 
The danger posed when two 
freight trains collide or when a commuter 
train collides with a freight 
train are immeasurable in lives and environmental 
costs. 

Since railroad crossing safety is 
often a local and State issue, RSAFE 
mandates that the States pay at least 
a 20 percent share of any project financed 
with funds under this bill. I 
think that this is a small price for the 
States to pay for the safety of their 
citizens. 

The railroads often argue that the 4.3 
cent per gallon tax is unfair, that they 
maintain their own infrastructure unlike 
the trucking industry. But I think 
it even more unfair that the taxes go 
to deficit reduction instead of a program 
that benefits the railroads and 
public safety. That is what RSAFE 
does. It puts railroad money back into 
the railroads for the benefit of the public. 


In addition, after 5 years of increased 
investment in grade crossing safety, 
RSAFE repeals the 4.3-cent diesel tax 
on October 1, 2004. Hopefully, Congress 
will continue the higher funding for 
the Section 130 program in the next 
highway and transportation reauthorization 
bill. However, until then, every 
day that the tax goes towards deficit 
reduction is a day that statistics tell 
us someone will die at a railroad crossing. 
In 1998, 428 people died from an incident 
at a grade crossing, 30 of whom 
died in my home State of Illinois. 
Clearly, 428 deaths in 1 year is unacceptable. 


So I say to my colleagues and to 
those in the railroad community: 

Please work with Congressman 
CRAMER and me to pass this legislation 
so that each day we will not see another 
life perish due to our own inactivity 
and inaction. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from the District of Columbia 
(Ms. NORTON) is recognized for 5 minutes. 


(Ms. NORTON addressed the House. 
Her remarks will appear hereafter in 
the Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. RUSH) is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

(Mr. RUSH addressed the House. His 
remarks will appear hereafter in the 
Extensions of Remarks.) 

f 


CHINA HAS YET TO EARN 
PREFERENTIAL TRADE STATUS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. BROWN) is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

Mr. BROWN of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, 10 
years ago this week China’s Communist 
dictatorship sent its tanks and 
armored carriers crashing through the 
prodemocracy protests in Tiananmen 
Square in Beijing. Hundreds of innocent 
protesters were crushed to death, 
hundreds more were mowed down by 
machine guns, hundreds more were arrested 
and executed. 

The men and women who lost their 
lives in Beijing and the ones who remain 
jailed are the heirs to the legacy 
of our Founding Fathers. They quoted 
Thomas Jefferson, they built a monument 
fashioned after our Statue of Liberty, 
they look to the United States as 
a beacon of hope and of freedom. In the 
United States, the nation which the 
thousands of dead at Tiananmen hoped 
to emulate, is once again coddling the 
same dictators who had them murdered 
by renewing China’s annual trade privileges. 
After all, the lure of one billion 
Chinese low-wage workers is the catalyst 
of our China policy. 

Think about it: no pesky unions, no 
minimum wage laws, no labor standards, 
no effective court system to scare 
away investors. The potential for profit, 
regardless of human rights for 
American corporations, is enormous. 
After all, Wall Street bankers could 
not care less if the shelves at the Lorain, 
Ohio, K-Mart are lined with goods 
manufactured by Chinese slave labor. 
The lawyers in Washington could not 
care less if Chinese workers are imprisoned 
for trying to form unions. 

Win Jingshang, a democracy activist 
who spent nearly two decades in a Chinese 
prison, told me that American 
corporate executives, not Chinese spies 
but American corporate executives, are 
the vanguard of the Chinese Communist 
Party revolution in the United 
States. 

It should bother us, all of us, that exactly 
10 years after the slaughter of 
those demonstrators in Tiananmen 
Square that American CEO’s actively 
roam the government corridors of the 
Chinese Communist Party dictator


ship. It should bother all of us that 
after cavorting with the butchers of 
Beijing, these American CEOs 
streamed into Ronald Reagan National 
Airport to argue for continued favors, 
continued trade advantages for the 
world’s worse abuser of human rights. 
It should bother all of us that the brutal 
nature of China’s Communist regime 
is totally ignored by all too many 
in America’s business community. 

The harsh reality is that the ongoing 
genocide in Tibet, continued arrest, 
and torture of democracy activists, 
proliferation of nuclear technology to 
North Korea, none of that matters very 
much to too many people in America’s 
business community. To this I say, the 
most effective way to toughen our relationship 
with China is to deny it special 
trading privileges. 

Every year I and others in this body 
have prodded the administration and 
the Republican leadership to force 
China to improve its behavior before 
giving it preferential trade status. 
These benefits give China’s Communist 
Party dictators billions and billions of 
dollars, last year it was 60 billion to be 
precise, and the commercial technology 
needed to modernize the People’s 
Liberation Army. Yet each year 
the same GOP, the same Republican 
Members of Congress who are the loudest 
in their criticism of the Clinton administration 
and its China policy turn 
around because of corporate business 
influence in this body, turn around and 
give Beijing preferential trade status. 

Mr. Chairman, what we need to do 
before granting special trade status to 
the Communist Chinese is to condition 
their behavior on something other than 
what they say. I, for one, am weary of 
continued Chinese Communist promises 
that they will behave, they will 
play fair, they will stop human rights 
abuses, they will end child labor, they 
will stop forced abortions, they will 
begin to behave, they will stop selling 
nuclear technology to rogue nations, 
that they will begin to play by the 
rules. 

It was Mao, quoting Soviet leader 
Lenin, who liked to state promises are 
like pie crusts, they are made to be 
broken. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask the administration, 
I ask the President, I ask Republican 
leadership in this body, I ask the 
American business community, all of 
whom are far too strongly supportive 
of the World Trade Organization entry 
for China, I ask them to step back and 
let us see if China can behave for 1 
year. We should demand to see if China 
can stop its human rights abuses, can 
stop its child labor and slave labor 
practices, can stop threatening Taiwan 
before receiving another dollar from 

U.S. business interests. We must not 
give China special trading privileges, 
Mr. Speaker, until we see proof that its 
Communist Party leaders are capable 
of abiding by world standards. 

H3826 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

FUNDING FOR SOCIALLY will produce immeasurable returns for that many thousands more that were 
DISADVANTAGED FARMERS small farmers. killed in other accidents and suicides 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under a 
previous order of the House, the gentlewoman 
from North Carolina (Mrs. 
CLAYTON) is recognized for 5 minutes. 

Mrs. CLAYTON. Mr. Speaker, earlier 
today we approved an amendment related 
to outreach funding for socially 
disadvantaged farmers. This amendment 
was offered by our colleague, the 
gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR), 
and she is also to be commended. The 
amendment was accepted by the subcommittee 
chairman, the gentleman 
from New Mexico (Mr. SKEEN). He, too, 
is to be commended for his support. 

This amendment passed, and the 
House is to be commended for doing 
that. Let me tell my colleagues why. 

b1945 
This amendment permits the Secretary 
of Agriculture to provide additional 
funding for USDA outreach programs 
for socially disadvantaged farmers. 
Under the amendment, the Secretary 
may transfer up to $7 million to 
this program. 
The 2501 outreach program targets 
small and socially disadvantaged farmers 
and ranchers. The program is carried 
out by colleges and universities, 
including the 1890 land grant institutions. 
With funds from this program, 
these institutions are able to conduct 
the vital and important work of training 
and management assistance. Individualized 
farm plans, upgrading accounting 
systems, effective utilization 
of the vast array of other USDA programs, 
and the best approaches to applying 
for credit are but a few of the 
services available at the institutions 
and through this program. 
Mr. Speaker, while the additional 
dollars provided by this amendment 
will be a great help to our small farmers, 
especially those who are socially 
disadvantaged, there are other steps 
that Congress should take to assist the 
1890 institutions in assisting small 
farmers. It should concern all of us 
that of the 1,200 Ph.D. degrees recently 
awarded this year in agriculture 
science in the United States, almost 
half were awarded to non-U.S. citizens, 
while less than 3 percent were awarded 
to Afro-Americans. We need a program 
to encourage more Americans, particularly 
Afro-Americans, to pursue graduate-
level education in agriculture. 
The 1890 institutions could use additional 
support in their research and extension 
efforts. This additional support 
is especially needed to strengthen the 
level of performance and the productivity 
and the research and extension 
of the 1890 institutions. 
A modest increase of not less than 5 
percent in formula funding for existing 
1890 programs would go a very long 
ways in helping the 1890 schools to help 
small farmers. Additional funding resources 
for facility funding and extending 
such funding to institutional facilities 
is but another prudent resource 
that would be a wise investment that 

We must also work with the administration 
to produce either legislation or 
regulations that assures continuation 
of the Federal support when a State 
fails to provide the matching dollars 
for the land grant institutions. Many 
of the programs Congress intends to 
make available are not available to 
these institutions because the State 
matching funds are not often provided. 

Finally, given the state of affairs of 
small farmers, especially socially disadvantaged 
farmers, a special appropriation 
of not less than $10 million 
over the next several years should be 
targeted, and we should consider this 
now as we are now considering the agriculture 
appropriation for the next 
few years. Targeting to reduce the 
rapid decline of these farmers will be a 
meaningful investment if we are to 
stop the erosion and the demise of 
small farmers. 

Mr. Speaker, there can be no doubt 
that small farmers and ranchers are 
struggling to survive in America. In 
fact, small farmers and ranchers are a 
dying breed. Indeed, in my home State 
of North Carolina, there has been a 64 
percent decline in minority farmers 
just over the last 15 years, from 6,996 
farms in 1978 to 2,498 farms in 1992. All 
farmers, all farmers, are suffering 
under the severe economic downturn 
we are now facing, but particularly 
small and disadvantaged farmers are 
facing severely. 

Mr. Speaker, I commend the gentlewoman 
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) and 
the gentleman from New Mexico (Mr. 
SKEEN) for their sensitivity to the 
needs of socially disadvantaged farmers, 
but there is very much more we 
need to do. I hope Congress will be 
committed to do that in the coming 
years. 

f 


THE PROBLEM OF DRUG ABUSE IN 
AMERICA 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
SHIMKUS). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of January 6, 1999, the 
gentleman from Florida (Mr. MICA) is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee 
of the majority leader. 

Mr. MICA. Mr. Speaker, I come to 
the floor again tonight to talk about 
the problem of drug abuse in our Nation 
and the tremendous toll that illegal 
narcotics have taken across our 
great land. 

It is getting so that almost every 
family, certainly every community 
across the United States, can today 
claim that they are victimized by illegal 
narcotics trafficking in their communities 
and their schools, among 
their family members. The statistics 
are really mind-boggling and do not 
make the front page of today’s newspaper, 
Mr. Speaker, but indeed they are 
dramatic. 

Last year, over 14,000 Americans died 
in drug-related deaths. That is only the 
tip of the iceberg, because now we find 

and other causes of death are not 
counted in that toll. In fact, the figure 
is much, much higher. 

I said before on the floor of the House 
when we had the terrible tragedy at 
Columbine with a number of students 
and faculty who were killed in that 
tragedy, that we have multiple Columbines 
across our Nation every day. 
They are sometimes in the silent but 
violent deaths of our young people 
through the use of illegal narcotics. 

Today heroin has become the drug of 
choice, and it is destroying lives by the 
thousands. I come from Central Florida 
and represent the area from Orlando to 
Daytona Beach, a relatively peaceful 
area. But Central Florida now has had 
such an epidemic, particularly among 
our young people, of deaths from illegal 
drugs and overdoses, that a recent 
headline in the Orlando Sentinel said 
that illegal drug overdoses now exceed 
homicides in Central Florida. That is 
how severe the problem is in my district. 


That is one reason why I chose to accept 
the Speaker’s appointment as 
chairman of the Subcommittee on 
Criminal Justice Drug Policy and 
Human Resources. I had the great 
privilege and opportunity to serve in 
the last Congress with the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. HASTERT), someone 
who folks are just learning more about, 
who is the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives. 

When the gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. HASTERT), the gentleman I refer 
to, served as chairman of the Subcommittee 
on National Security Criminal 
Justice and International Affairs, I 
served with him and at his side. I had 
the privilege of watching the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. HASTERT) 
bring together a consensus in this Congress 
and in the House of Representatives 
to re-start the war on drugs. You 
must remember, and I will detail that 
in just a few minutes, that the war on 
drugs basically stopped with the election 
of this President and his taking 
office in 1993. I will talk more about 
that in a minute. 

But, again, someone who restarted 
our national effort now leads the House 
of Representatives, and I am very 
proud to have served with him in that 
effort during the past several years as 
the new majority gained control here 
in the House of Representatives. 

The record of death and destruction 
across our land we were very much 
aware of when we took control of the 
House of Representatives and we saw 
the change from the Reagan and Bush 
administration, where we saw a decline 
year after year in drug use and drug 
deaths across the Nation. What should 
be astounding is that since we really 
had this new policy with this new administration, 
that the figures began to 
really go off of the charts. In fact, I 
brought a chart tonight to illustrate 
the problem that we had. 

Remember what I said just a minute 
ago. If you look at this chart for a 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3827 

minute you will see these different 
lines of drug use illustrated in color. 
You see that drug use was on the decline. 
This shows that from 1989 on 
down to the 1992–93 period here, where 
the Reagan-Bush administration ended 
their efforts, the ‘‘just say no’’ campaign, 
the eradication, the enforcement 
efforts stopped, and a policy of 
working primarily on treatment, treating 
the wounded in this battle began. 
We saw the increases in drug use that 
these colored lines represent in almost 
every area. 

Only in the last 2 years, again under 
the leadership of Speaker HASTERT as 
Chair, have we seen any leveling off, 
but we still see incredible figures, particularly 
among our young people in illegal 
narcotics usage. 

Let me give you one figure. Since 
1993, again when this administration 
took control, changed the policy, the 
figure is this; that we have had an 875 
percent increase in heroin usage by our 
teens. I think if we looked at the 
charts we would see a dramatic increase 
in the deaths of our teens. If we 
look at those more than 14,000 deaths I 
cited, many of them are among our 
young people who are now being victimized 
by very potent illegal hard narcotics 
that are coming in in an unprecedented 
stream. 

The cost of this whole drug debacle is 
immense to this country and to the 
Congress. Right now we are working in 
our subcommittee to try to coordinate 
the expenditures of $17.9 billion directly 
into the war on drugs. That is 
only the tip of the iceberg, because we 
spend around a quarter of a trillion 
dollars in a year. When you take in incarceration, 
the cost of our judicial 
system, the social cost, welfare for 
these drug victims and narcotics users 
leave a trail of social disruption that is 
unbelievable, not to mention the pain 
to their loved ones and families. 

So that is a little bit of the direct 
toll and cost in dollars and in lives, 
and, as I said in Central Florida we 
have had just a dramatic increase in 
deaths, particularly among our young 
people. 

In our prisons across this land we 
have almost 2 million incarcerated 
citizens and other individuals there. 
Seventy percent of them are there because 
of drug-related offenses. Our U.S. 
Attorneys tell us that statistics, our 
Federal Marshals, our DEA agents, and 
even in conducting hearings in my 
local community, our local sheriffs 
told us that 60 to 70 percent of those individuals 
behind bars at public expense 
are there because of drug-related offenses. 


So if we look at the crime in this 
country, we can directly relate it, 60 to 
70 percent of it, to illegal narcotics. 

One of the interesting myths of this 
whole drug problem is that people behind 
bars are there for casual use or for 
possession, and that is simply not the 
case. I just reviewed a report from the 
Commissioner for Crime and Enforcement 
in the State of New York, and 

they had a very revealing report which 
in fact indicated that very few individuals 
are there for mere possession. Almost 
all the individuals in that State 
prison system that are there because of 
drug-related offenses are there because 
they were selling substantial quantities, 
participating in the act of a felony, 
when they were under the influence 
of illegal narcotics. So many of 
the crimes are not victimless. Most of 
them have victims and are felonies and 
serious offenses against our community. 


b2000 
So we have an incredible problem, 
but we have also incarcerated almost 2 
million Americans at great cost to the 
taxpayers because of this problem. 
Let me say that, again, the war on illegal 
narcotics, the war on drugs, died 
in 1993 with the election of this President 
and with a majority on the Democrat 
side that controlled both the 
House of Representatives, the other 
body, and the White House from 1993 to 
1995. 
Sometimes people come to me and 
say the war on drugs is a failure. I say, 
yes, the war on drugs is a failure because 
it died. It not only died, it was 
killed in 1993. In fact, what this administration 
did was dealt a death blow to 
the real effort started under the 
Reagan administration. 
I know because back in the early 
eighties I worked with Senator Hawkins 
from Florida when we had a cocaine 
problem and a drug problem. 
Under her leadership and under the 
leadership of the Reagan administration, 
they began a series of legislative 
initiatives to stop drugs at their 
source, to have tough interdiction of 
drugs as they came from their source, 
to involve the military and the Coast 
Guard and other resources in getting 
drugs before they got to our border, 
stopping drugs at our border, and then 
tough enforcement across the land. 
We know that works. The statistics 
prove that that works. Unfortunately, 
this administration abandoned those 
policies in 1993. In 1993, and these are 
facts, this is not partisan rhetoric, but 
the other side with Democrat control 
in the White House and the Congress, 
they stopped many of the eradication 
programs, the source country problems. 
I will tell the Members, if they want 
to have the most effective way to stop 
hard drugs at their source, they have 
source country eradication programs, 
where we have those countries become 
involved in alternative crop production, 
where we have tough enforcement, 
and where we have eradication of 
the growth of illegal narcotics. Again, 
at their source is most cost-effective. 
There is no question about it. 
This administration, the Democratic-
controlled Congress, killed those programs 
in 1993, or severely crippled 
them. What happened is we saw more 
and more production. 
In 1993, the administration took the 
first steps towards really cutting the 

military, not just as we see today and 
we are trying to make up for, and the 
many deployments in Kosovo, in Bosnia, 
on and on, military exercises. But 
they basically, under the guidance of 
President Clinton, took the military 
out of the war on drugs and really 
changed their mission. It was not their 
mission to help stop drugs once they 
came from the source; again, stopping 
the source, eradication programs, 
country programs, and then stopping 
the military involvement, then also 
cutting the Coast Guard dramatically. 

The President led the effort to cut 
the Coast Guard. That particularly affected 
my district and the State of 
Florida, because we had a rush of heroin 
and cocaine come through Puerto 
Rico, and Puerto Rico is really guarded. 
It has a coast all the way around, 
and it is guarded by the Coast Guard. 

The cuts in the Coast Guard dramatically 
increased the flow of heroin and 
cocaine and other illegal drugs into 
Puerto Rico, which is of course part of 
the United States, and the entry-way. 
And with no protection, those drugs 
started coming back into Florida in incredible 
quantities. The deaths we see 
in central Florida and throughout the 
State of Florida, again exceeding homicide, 
are drug-related, and those drugs 
we can trace coming through that 
trail. 

Then of course the President made a 
horrible decision in appointing Jocelyn 
Elders, the infamous now fortunately 
ex-Surgeon General who said, just say 
maybe. When we have a mixed message 
coming from the White House, when we 
have a mixed message coming from the 
chief health officer of the United 
States to our young people, our young 
people are not dumb, they pick this up. 
They get the message that maybe, just 
say maybe; or if I had it to do over 
again, I would inhale; or kids, do it if 
it feels good. 

That message went across this land. 
Fortunately, that Surgeon General has 
been replaced, and we do not have a 
Nancy Reagan or leadership at the national 
level really to bring this message 
of ‘‘just say no’’ and what drugs 
can do to our young people. 

Those direct actions, and again, this 
is not political rhetoric but those factual 
actions took place, and they resulted 
in, again, this chart we see and 
the dramatic rise of young 12th grade 
use here we see by this chart, but also 
in drugs by numerous strata of young 
people; again, not just in 12th graders. 
That is what we are suffering from 
today. 

Stopping illegal narcotics, hard narcotics 
coming into this country is not 
a rocket scientist’s venture, really. It 
requires a simple review of where narcotics 
are coming from. Let me get another 
chart up here, if I may. 

We know where illegal drugs are 
coming from. This is very interesting 
because DEA has produced this chart, 
and this chart is 1997 heroin signature 
program results. This is an interesting 
program because technology is so 


H3828 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

amazing. Just like we can trace DNA 
to individual human beings, we can 
trace and DEA can trace through their 
labs in this case heroin, and they can 
tell almost the field that it came from 
and certainly what country of origin, 
or where it came from. 

This little pie chart shows that 75 
percent of the heroin came from South 
America in 1997. We know that from 
sampling seizures across the land. We 
know that 6 percent came from Southeast 
Asia; I am sorry, 5 percent from 
Southeast Asia, 6 percent from southwest 
Asia, and 14 percent from Mexico. 

This is a very interesting chart because 
it tells us where the source of 
most of the death and destruction to 
my communities and many communities 
across the land is coming from. 
That is heroin, 1997. 

Let me tell the Members an absolutely 
startling statistic. If we took 
this chart back to 1993 or 1992, there 
was almost zero heroin coming from 
South America, almost none in South 
America 6 years ago, at the beginning 
of this administration. How did we get 
75 percent of the heroin coming into 
the United States in 6 years? It is simple. 
It is through the policy of this administration. 
This administration for 6 
years blocked any aid or assistance to 
the country of Columbia in the way of 
helicopters, in the way of eradication 
equipment, in the way of ammunition, 
in the way of resources to stop cocaine 
and heroin production. 

Here we are talking about heroin. 
Again, it would be almost zero at the 
beginning of the Clinton administration, 
and it is 75 percent now coming 
from South America, and almost 99 
percent of that is coming from Columbia. 
Six years ago there was almost 
none. So their policy, their direct policy 
has resulted in these startling figures. 


Mexico, which on this pie chart accounts 
for 14 percent, was also way 
down on the bottom. It was in single 
digits as far as Mexican heroin coming 
into the United States. In 6 years they 
have managed to make Mexico not 
only a trafficker and conduit and transit 
country, but they have also made 
Mexico a producing country rather 
than stopping it. 

Repeatedly this administration has 
certified Mexico as cooperating in the 
war on drugs. As required by Federal 
law, the President must certify whether 
this country is cooperating, any 
country is cooperating to stop the production 
and transiting of illegal narcotics. 
Certainly Members can see that 
production is up by this chart. Again, 
we would be in single digits in the 
early 1990s, and almost no heroin coming 
from that area. 

What is absolutely startling, and this 
chart does not show it, and this is just 
an unbelievable statistic, but 6 years 
ago there was almost no coca, no base 
for cocaine produced in Colombia, almost 
none. In 6 years, again the policy 
of this administration stopping aid, 
stopping resources, stopping equipment 

in the war on drugs from going to Colombia, 
Colombia is now the number 
one producer of cocaine in the world. 
So we have heroin and poppies growing 
in unprecedented amounts, heroin coming 
in in unbelievable quantities in 
these sources from Colombia. Most of 
this, again, is due to the policy of this 
administration. 

I do want to say that there is some 
hope on the horizon. Through the efforts 
of the gentleman from New York 
(Chairman GILMAN), who chairs the 
Committee on International Relations, 
through the efforts of the full committee 
on which I serve, the Committee 
on Government Reform and 
Oversight, the gentleman from Indiana 
(Chairman BURTON) and so many others, 
the gentleman from Florida (Mr. 
MCCOLLUM), we have repeatedly requested, 
we have repeatedly helped appropriate, 
and again, through the tremendous 
leadership of the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. HASTERT), who now 
presides over the House of Representatives, 
we have succeeded in getting the 
first equipment to Colombia. 

I participated with several of the 
committee chairmen recently in a 
ceremony at the Sikorsky Helicopter 
Division, where the Black Hawks are 
produced in Connecticut, in a contract 
and delivery ceremony. Soon those helicopters 
that will be able to get to the 
high altitudes to eradicate, to go after 
the drug traffickers at their source, 
will be there. We will see a dramatic 
decrease in the amount of heroin, the 
amount of cocaine coming into this 
country; a small amount of money, a 
great amount of results, stopping drugs 
where they are grown, where they are 
produced, and interdicting those illegal 
narcotics as they come from that 
source, not when they are on our 
streets, when it is the most difficult to 
get those. 

What I need to do tonight, Mr. 
Speaker, is show Members and the 
American people how we got into this 
situation. It is a direct policy of this 
administration and the Congress that 
was controlled by the other side. 

I wanted to also talk about the other 
primary source of illegal narcotics. In 
addition to the source country now becoming 
Colombia, and through the policy 
I described, this chart shows Mexico’s 
statistical tables and it shows 
opium seizures, cocaine seizures. I believe 
the dark blue here shows the 
opium seizures for 1997. The red, the 
first column is opium seizures, down in 
1998. The second is cocaine seizures, 
down in 1998. 

The next is the production. The red 
shows the yield in 1998 is up. Here is 
Mexico, our close ally that the United 
States and this Congress and this 
House of Representatives have done incredible 
deeds to assist. In financial 
trouble we have backed them and actually 
given them financial stability. In 
trade we have given them benefits as 
far as assistance. NAFTA, we gave 
them almost an open commercial border. 
We have lost thousands of Amer


ican jobs to give to lower-paying Mexico 
jobs. 

We have done everything as a good 
ally, and what have they done? The law 
requires under certification that the 
President must certify a country as cooperating 
in helping to eliminate both 
the production and the trafficking of 
illegal narcotics. This administration, 
this president recommended to this 
Congress, and we have pending before 
us a recommendation, to certify Mexico. 


From 1997 to 1998, last year there 
were less seizures of heroin, there were 
less seizures of cocaine, actually reduced 
seizures in the country, and 
more production of illegal narcotics; in 
this case, heroin. 

b2015 

I showed my colleagues the other 
chart that showed how production has 
risen again repeatedly over the past 6 
years, and it was in single digits. So 
this is the result of what we get from 
Mexico. 

Let me talk a little bit about Mexico, 
which is the source of 60 percent of the 
illegal narcotics coming into the 
United States. We know that DEA, our 
Drug Enforcement Agency, has confirmed 
that. The hard narcotics, the 
heroin, the cocaine, the methamphetamine 
are coming in unbelievable 
quantities through our Mexican border. 

Now this Congress has, under the 
leadership of the gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. HASTERT), who brought to the 
floor several years ago a resolution 
asking Mexico to take certain actions. 
It has been now over 2 years ago that 
we asked Mexico to take those actions, 
again, the source of 60 percent of the 
hard drugs, the death, the destruction, 
those 2 million people that are behind 
our bars in our prisons. We asked Mexico 
to help us. 

What did we ask for? We asked Mexico, 
first, to extradite to the United 
States Mexican nationals who are 
major drug traffickers, send them to 
the United States for prosecution. We 
have indicted them. We have requested 
their extradition. They are guilty of 
breaking the United States Federal 
law. We want to try them. 

We do not want them in a kangaroo 
court. We do not want the corrupt judicial 
system of Mexico to deal with 
them. We want to try them and bring 
them to justice. The biggest thing drug 
dealers fear in the world is being 
brought to justice in the United States, 
because they will pay a penalty for 
their crime here. 

To date, the Mexicans have not extradited 
the first Mexican national. 
Only after coming to the floor of the 
House repeatedly, only just before Memorial 
Day when I, the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. MCCOLLUM), the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. GILLMOR), and 
other leaders on the issue introduced a 
drug kingpin bill that will tie up the 
assets of these drug dealers did we 
start to see any action. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3829 

Do my colleagues know what the 
Mexican Government did? They extradited 
in the last week one U.S. national 
who was on our list, one U.S. national, 
but to date, not one Mexican 
national. We have requested over 40 
major Mexican national drug dealers to 
be extradited. Instead, what they did 
with the Masquez brothers just a few 
weeks ago, and before we introduced 
this bill, was to kick dirt in our face by 
judges in Mexico releasing the Masquez 
brothers, who are the kings of methamphetamine 
production and trafficking 
into the United States. 

So until we got tough just before Memorial 
Day, they kicked sand in our 
face, allowing the kingpins not to be 
extradited. Fortunately, some of the 
brothers are still held in prison there. 

But we will not give up till these 40 
Mexican nationals, whom we know are 
involved, who have been indicted in the 
United States, on whom we have a request 
for extradition pending, some for 
6, 7 years, are brought to justice. 

So we asked for extradition, and 
what did we get? Nothing to date. Zero, 
zip, nada. We asked for the enforcement 
of Mexican laws. Mexico passed 
laws, their National Assembly, but 
they did not enforce the laws. They 
have not enforced the laws. 

What did the Mexicans do to the 
United States after we made this request 
again, 2 years, this House of Representatives, 
what did they do last 
year? One, the most offensive thing 
that has ever taken place to our law 
enforcement officials, what they did is 
disrupt Operation Casablanca 

Operation Casablanca was a U.S. Customs 
sting operation which was to 
identify money laundered in the United 
States and through Mexican banks and 
Mexican banking officials; and our U.S. 
Customs officers led that effort. I know 
that we informed them of what was 
going on. 

Do my colleagues know what they 
did? The only reason for informing 
them was limited, because we can trust 
so few of the Mexican officials; most of 
them are corrupt from the policeman 
on the beat all the way to the office of 
the president. I will talk about that in 
just a minute. 

But what they did was threaten to 
arrest our Custom officials. We knew 
that hundreds of millions of dollars 
was being serviced through these Mexican 
corrupt bankers. They had the audacity 
and nerve to threaten our officials. 


Only until just before President Clinton 
went down to meet with President 
Zedillo did they back off of this threat, 
and only just before the question of 
certification by this administration 
came up did they back off of the threat 
of going after our Customs officials. 

So we asked for enforcement of the 
laws. What did they do? Again, we got 
dirt and dust kicked into our faces, and 
actually threatening our officials. 

We had asked over 2 years ago for our 
DEA agents, and we have a small number 
in Mexico, and we did have an inci


dent where one of our agents was brutally 
and savagely murdered back in 
the 1980s, so we want our DEA agents 
to be able to protect themselves, and 
we want assurance of protection and, 
in some cases, to be able to carry arms. 
We still have been denied that right by 
the Mexicans to ensure the safety and 
security of our drug enforcement 
agents in that country. 

That was another request that we 
had. We asked that the drugs that are 
coming in from Colombia that are produced 
there in South America and 
transiting, the 60 percent of the drugs, 
hard drugs, coming into the United 
States be stopped at the southern border 
of Mexico; and that could be done 
by installing radar and other devices at 
the border. To date, zero, nothing has 
been done to comply with our request; 
and that request of this House of Representatives 
is over 2 years old. Again, 
the Mexicans have ignored a simple request 
of cooperation. 

Finally, signing a maritime agreement: 
We know if it is not coming over 
land, it is coming over water. The 
Mexicans still deny us a maritime 
agreement. They refused to sign a maritime 
agreement, to my knowledge, in 
the Caribbean, in Central, South America. 
Only one other country, Haiti, 
which is still in total disruption, even 
after we spent 3-plus billion taxpayer 
dollars to improve their legislative, judicial, 
and law enforcement system, 
they have not been able to have their 
parliament meet and sign a maritime 
agreement or confirm one. But the 
Mexican Government still has refused 
to sign a maritime agreement with the 
United States. 

So here we are again, you know, with 
the situation. After the introduction of 
the bill that I described, major drug 
kingpins bill, which will go after the 
assets of these drug traffickers, we got 
a little attention of the administration. 
The Secretary of State, Mrs. 
Albright, was to go to Mexico. She was 
diverted to Kosovo. 

I believe they sent the Attorney General 
to Mexico over the weekend. We 
also, I believe, had our Drug Czar, who 
is doing the best job he can, General 
McCaffrey, under very difficult circumstances. 
Hopefully, in this high-
level working group with the Attorney 
General, with other officers from Mexico, 
some additional progress will be 
made. 

But I can assure my colleagues in 
this Congress this House of Representatives 
will not sit idle until they begin 
an honest effort for enforcement, interdiction, 
cooperation on the agenda, 
items that are over 2 years old. So 
some action hopefully was taken this 
weekend. We do not know; it is not 
public yet. But we will continue to 
pressure Mexico because it is the 
source of so much of the illegal narcotics 
coming into the United States. 

We also know that in order to get 
from Peru and Bolivia and Colombia, 
where 100 percent of the cocaine and 
coca is produced now and where 75 per


cent of the heroin comes from Colombia, 
we know that it must transit again 
by land either through Panama, 
through the isthmus, and those Central 
American countries, and/or through 
Mexico to get to the United States. 

Now, what is the policy of this administration 
relating to stopping drugs 
in Panama? This is an absolutely unbelievable 
scenario. What was started 
under the Carter administration to 
give away the Panama Canal and 10 billion 
American dollars in assets, 5,500 
buildings is being sewed up into a neat 
package by the Clinton administration 
and given to the Panamanians, and at 
the same time, we have made one simple 
request. Could we please continue 
the drug surveillance flights from Howard 
Air Force Base in Panama, which 
cover the entire South American region, 
which cover the area that is producing 
the hard drugs that I have cited 
here? That was our question and request. 


Now how could a State Department 
bungle negotiations for a simple request 
like that with the Panamanian 
Government? I do not know. But, Mr. 
Speaker, the administration’s State 
Department managed to bungle the negotiations 
for having our forward drug 
surveillance flights go out of Howard 
Air Force Base. 

They did that in an incredibly bungling 
fashion, and we were basically 
kicked out May 1. Since May 1, there 
has not been one drug surveillance 
flight over the drug-producing or drug-
trafficking area of South America from 
Howard Air Force Base. The United 
States of America was kicked out of 
Panama. We closed Howard Air Force 
Base. We had 15,000 drug surveillance 
flights last year from Howard Air 
Force Base covering the whole region. 

When I took over as chair of the Subcommittee 
on Criminal Justice, Drug 
Policy, and Human Resources in January, 
we went down there to Panama. 
We met with folks. ‘‘Can you negotiate?’’ 
No, they did not think they 
could negotiate. 

‘‘If you cannot negotiate, can we 
move our forward surveillance drug operations 
to other areas?’’ 

‘‘Oh, yes, we will have it taken care 
of, Congressman MICA. Chairman MICA, 
it is going to be in place. It will all 
work out.’’ 

I am here to tell my colleagues that 
it is June 1, and May 1 is when we were 
kicked out. The two other operating locations 
that were chosen, one was in 
Mana, Ecuador, in Ecuador. The other 
was in Curacao and Aruba, Netherlands, 
and Antilles. 

From Mana, today is June 8, not one 
flight has taken off for surveillance in 
the drug-producing areas or drug-trafficking 
areas from Ecuador. There is 
only an interim agreement in place. 

Aruba and Curacao, we sent staff 
down there this weekend to examine 
what is going on. At best, we might be 
at 30 percent capacity of surveillance 
flights. So we have a gaping hole in our 
drug surveillance program, almost no 


H3830 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

flights taking off to cover that area either 
where drugs are produced or where 
drugs are trafficking. 

An incredible situation, incredibly 
bungled, as I said, by the State Department. 
Now the Department of Defense 
is scrambling, only with an interim 
agreement in Ecuador, and our staff reported 
to me on their return from Ecuador 
that that airfield may take $100 
million to $200 million to get it into 
working order. 

Now, is the United States of America 
going to invest, with an interim agreement 
that expires in September, any 
money, hard-earned taxpayer dollars, 
in a forward surveillance location and 
increasing and improving the infrastructure 
in that area when we have no 
assurances of a permanent operating 
base? 

So they bungled it in Panama. They 
bungled it in Ecuador. Aruba is operating 
at maybe 30 percent of capacity, 
and a gaping hole again in our drug 
surveillance program. 

b2030 
So that really is where we are tonight 
in some of the war on drugs: Panama, 
a disaster. No forward operating 
bases. What that does, too, and what is 
sad about that is it denies countries 
that have been cooperating, like Peru 
and Bolivia, and now Colombia that is 
going to get additional equipment, it 
denies them the information they need 
to go after drugs at their source; it denies 
them the information they need to 
go after traffickers. 
Peru has had a very brave shootdown 
policy. They ask planes to identify 
themselves, and when they do not identify 
themselves and they try to scramble 
away, they shoot them down. And 
they have been provided intelligence 
and surveillance information by those 
forward operations, again out of Panama, 
that have been closed down. 
Now, it is easy for me to get up here 
and to criticize this administration, 
and I do not mean to do it in a partisan 
manner. I mean to do it in a factual 
manner. And, hopefully, we will not repeat 
the mistakes of this administration 
in this Congress or in the years 
ahead, because we know we can stop 
drugs at their source. We know we can 
interdict hard narcotics. We know if we 
give information to other countries 
and a little bit of assistance they can 
help us in a cost-effective manner before 
that ever gets into our streets, 
into our communities, into our schools 
and becomes a tough task for law enforcement. 
But let me, as I conclude, just say 
again what the Republican Congress 
has done, what this new majority has 
done, and under the current Speakership. 
And again I must give full credit 
to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
HASTERT), who is now the Speaker of 
the House, who chaired this responsibility 
and who I worked with in the 
last Congress, who brought together 
the source eradication programs that, 
again, were destroyed by a previously 

Democratically-controlled Congress 
and by this White House. 

Let me mention, Mr. Speaker, what 
just 2 years of effort in working with 
Peru and Bolivia have done. The cocaine 
production in those two countries 
is cut in half. In half. There has 
been tough enforcement. We must salute 
President Hugo Banzer, President 
of Bolivia, for his courageous efforts. 
We must help Bolivia, because Bolivia 
has committed in 2 years to eliminate 
that drug trafficking, and they have 
cut in 2 years by 50 percent. So this is 
not a ‘‘pie in the sky’’ proposal. It is 
something we know we can do, and 
with very few bucks; with very few taxpayer 
dollars in assisting them. 

So, additionally, President Fujimori 
in Peru, with a tough enforcement, 
with a tough shootdown policy, with a 
tough eradication and a productive alternative 
crop program is making 
great progress in that country. So we 
know these programs will work. 

This Republican administration, 
again under the leadership of the current 
Speaker of the House, when he 
chaired the subcommittee, has helped 
us now get aid to Colombia. We are reversing 
a failed policy there. We will 
stop the production of heroin and 
poppy production in Colombia. We will 
eliminate major drug traffickers. We 
will give the Colombian National Police, 
that have done a courageous job, 
losing 4,000 of their police officers in 
this battle, hundreds and hundreds of 
public officials have died in this war, 
we will give them the arms and the assistance 
and the aid, the resources to 
eradicate, to enforce and to interdict 
drugs cost effectively. And those 
Blackhawk helicopters are on their 
way. That is something we have done. 

And this Congress, this House and 
the American people will see a reduction 
in the amount of heroin coming 
into the United States. And also cocaine, 
which again they have turned in 
6 years, Colombia, into the major producer 
of cocaine. Not just a processor 
or a transiter but the major producer. 
In 6 years they have managed to do 
that. We will start eliminating that 
through the policies of this new majority 
in the Congress. 

We have restored the cuts in the 
Coast Guard and we are dramatically 
increasing the assistance that the military 
provides in getting them back 
into the war on drugs. I know it was 
very nice for the Vice President to 
take the U–2s out of South and Central 
America in the war on drugs and bring 
them up to check on oil spills around 
Alaska. I know it was nice to divert 
the money for eradication programs of 
drugs at the source country, which 
President Clinton did, and put it in 
Haiti, which basically was more money 
down the tubes; but, in fact, we do 
know that getting the military involved 
in interdiction close to the 
source does work. 

We know that the Coast Guard protecting 
Puerto Rico and restoring their 
assets does a great job in protecting 

our coastlines, both of Puerto Rico and 
the United States, and we have brought 
them in 2 years back. 

We know that tough enforcement 
works. In the next week I will be holding 
hearings on legalization of illegal 
narcotics and decriminalization. There 
is a big wave across this country that 
we must look at decriminalization, 
make it a health problem, and we 
should not be tough on drugs and it 
will all work out. 

Mr. Speaker, it does not all work out. 
Look at the statistics in New York 
City. We can see since Mayor Rudy 
Giuliani has taken office what tough 
enforcement has done. The murders, 
which were at 2,000 when he took office, 
2,000 murders in New York City a 
year, and most of them drug related, I 
would venture to say without any question, 
have been reduced by 70 percent. 
Just over 600 murders. From 2,000 to 
600. 

It is safe to walk in New York City 
because Mayor Guiliani, through a 
tough enforcement policy, has stopped 
the violence, the crime, the drug trafficking 
and he has gone after these 
folks with a tough enforcement policy 
that works. 

Now, Tom Constantine, who unfortunately 
is leaving as the head of our 
DEA, and that is a very sad fact for 
this Congress and the American people, 
he produced this chart. This chart 
should be an eye opener for every Member 
of Congress and for every American. 
This shows the heroin addiction 
population in a city that decided to 
adopt a lackadaisical enforcement, a 
tolerant policy. In 1950, the population 
of Baltimore was over 900,000. In 1996, it 
was 675,000. In 1950, they had 300 heroin 
addicts in Baltimore. Listen to this. 
Three hundred heroin addicts. In 1996, 
through a liberalized policy, they had 
38,985 heroin addicts in Baltimore. This 
is what a liberalized policy gives us. 
And on the other hand, look at New 
York City; 2,000 murders down to 600 
murders through tough enforcement, 
tough prosecution. So we know this 
policy works. 

Now, we are going to have a full 
hearing and we are giving all sides the 
opportunity to be heard in our hearings 
next week about this process of decriminalization, 
about tough enforcement, 
about legalization. And I try, as 
chairman, to be fair, so we will hear 
from everybody, but I believe that 
these statistics, these facts, are irrefutable. 


So this new majority on our side has 
started a program, and again I started 
to mention the things that we have 
done in replacing the military, the 
interdiction, the source country, getting 
the Coast Guard cuts restored, but 
we have also put in almost $200 million 
in the past year in education programs, 
which is matched by the private sector. 
So it is almost a half billion dollars in 
education. And we are putting our 
money where our mouth is so our 
young people and all Americans know 
the dangers of illegal narcotics. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3831 

So we, again, I believe, are taking 
the right steps. They took the right 
steps under the Reagan and Bush administration. 
Education, enforcement, 
interdiction, eradication at the source, 
and treatment are important, but it 
cannot just be treatment. This cannot 
just be treating the wounded in a battle. 
If we went to war and we did not 
spend any money on armaments, any 
money on forward surveillance, any 
money on eradication of the enemy, 
any money on ammunition, we would 
not have a war on drugs, we would not 
have a war. And if we only treat the 
victims in this war, it does not work. 
We have seen it does not work. 

So tonight, as I close, I ask for my 
colleagues’ assistance to move together 
in a bipartisan cooperative effort. 
Mistakes were made in a bipartisan 
fashion, hopefully, we can make 
progress in a bipartisan fashion. It is 
my hope that we can get every Member 
on both sides of the aisle not to repeat 
the mistakes of the past and to move 
forward together. We know that these 
policies will work. They are tried, they 
are proven, they are tested. 

It is my hope that we can do that because 
I never want to talk to another 
mother or another father or another 
brother, another friend of a young person 
in my district who has died of a 
drug overdose. I talked about the cost, 
the people behind bars, and I talked 
about what Congress is going to have 
to appropriate, but we cannot restore a 
human being, a son or a daughter, to a 
parent who has lost that child in the 
war on drugs. 

So it is my hope that I will not have 
to make these speeches every week in 
my next term in Congress; that I will 
not have to come before the Speaker 
and the House and plead for their assistance 
in restarting the war on drugs. 

Mr. Speaker, although I have a few 
minutes left, I will yield back the balance 
of my time and pledge to be back 
here again next week. 

f 


WORKING FAMILIES OF AMERICA 

BEING MISTREATED BY 106TH 

CONGRESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
FLETCHER). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of January 6, 1999, the 
gentleman from New York (Mr. OWENS) 
is recognized for 60 minutes as the designee 
of the minority leader. 

Mr. OWENS. Mr. Speaker, the working 
families of this Nation are still 
being trampled on by this 106th Congress. 
They are being grossly mistreated 
in two basic ways: One is indifference 
and neglect on certain key 
issues, and the other is active oppression 
in certain ways. 

Indifference and neglect is reflected 
in the fact that we are not concerned 
about a minimum wage increase. There 
is a rumor that the leadership of the 
majority party has decided that it will 
agree to a minimum wage vote and 
that it will take place sometime later 
rather than sooner, and they are delay


ing because they want to make sure we 
get close to the election and be able to 
say, well, we voted for a minimum 
wage, or we allowed it on the floor and 
let the Democrats vote for it, so we did 
our job. 

And, of course, there is a rumor also 
that the minimum wage being proposed 
by the majority is 25 cents a year for 
the next 4 years. An increase of 25 
cents per year for the next 4 years 
means in 4 years the American worker 
would have a dollar increase instead of 
the two-step increase being proposed 
by the Democrats. 

But there is no hurry. We have an unprecedented 
prosperity in the Nation. 
We have a situation where the value of 
the stock market in 10 years has grown 
by $10 trillion. We had the assets and 
the value of the stock market in 1989 at 
$3 trillion. Now it is $13 trillion. With 
a $10 trillion increase in the value of 
the stock market, we can see that 
there is a great increase in the wealth 
and prosperity in America at certain 
levels. Why not share that with the 
working families? Why not in the most 
basic way make certain that the 
wealth of the Nation in some small 
way benefits the entire Nation? 

A minimum wage is just one tiny 
part of that effort. Being willing to finance 
or support more generous health 
care is another. The President is proposing 
soon a new benefit in Medicare, 
should be in Medicaid also, a new benefit 
which would cover prescription 
drugs. In this time of great prosperity, 
the least we could do is to make the 
miracles of science available at a 
cheaper cost to all the people who need 
them in terms of health care. Prescription 
drugs ought to be covered by 
Medicare and Medicaid. 

We talk a lot about Medicare and we 
forget that Medicaid is designed to 
serve the very poorest and they deserve 
to have the same kind of increase. We 
should not have two tiers of health 
care in America. Second class health 
care is inadequate health care. There 
should only be one class of health care. 
But we are refusing to deal with that 
in a forthright manner on a timetable 
that is meaningful because we just do 
not seem to care. 

b2045 
There is an indifference, an indifference 
to the poor, an indifference to the 
plight of the working families who are 
not sharing the great boost in our 
wealth. That great jump from $3 trillion 
in 1989 to $13 trillion in 1999 is not 
felt by a lot of people who are still out 
there struggling to make it. So jobs, 
health care, investment in education 
are all obvious kinds of actions that 
should be taken by the government. 
This Congress, acting in concert with 
the President, should make certain 
that we take advantage of this boom in 
prosperity to take care of some of our 
problems. 
But there exists in this Congress an 
attitude which goes in the opposite direction. 
It is stubborn, it is unyielding, 

it is wrongheaded, but it keeps going 
on. Take, for example, what happened 
in the vote on the supplemental budget, 
or the development of a long-awaited 
supplemental budget, which included 
the President’s request for $6 
billion for the Kosovo war, a war which 
I think is very necessary, a war which 
I think we could not afford to have not 
conducted or been a part of. I do not 
think we could have walked away from 
the genocide being committed by the 
Yugoslavia regime and held up our 
heads. We have seen it happen too 
many times already in this century. 

What Hitler did was on a grander, 
more massive scale. They had gas 
chambers and ovens and millions died, 
but the numbers are not as important 
as the action and the kind of thing 
happening in Kosovo. Certainly if it 
only means thousands dying, it is still 
significant and it is happening over and 
over again. We have seen it happen in 
Cambodia, we have seen it happen in 
Rwanda. It is about time that we did 
something to send a message to the 
dictators and the sovereign predators 
that exist throughout the world that 
somewhere the civilized nations of the 
world are willing to take a stand 
against this kind of murderous activity 
against human beings. 

We have done that in Kosovo. So we 
needed our participation in that effort. 
The $6 billion was requested by the 
President. But instead of that bill moving 
ahead with $6 billion plus the emergency 
aid requested for South America, 
for Central America as a result of the 
floods and the extra aid that was needed 
for the weather disasters that took 
place in the Midwest, we had a whole 
lot of other things piled on top of it 
and a $6 billion request became a $15 
billion request, a $15 billion request 
most of which came out of the surplus. 
It was deemed emergency funding and 
the surplus which is around $100 billion, 
I think, about the same, a little 
more maybe in the coming fiscal year, 
it is going to be about the same 
amount; the surplus was used for most 
of it. They could have used the surplus 
to cover it all, but to make a point the 
majority decided to offset $2 billion, 
take away from other programs $2 billion 
worth of money to cover part of 
the spending. 

Now, the emergency in Central 
America, the emergency in the Midwest 
with the tornadoes and storms, et 
cetera, those were emergencies. They 
clearly rank as emergencies. Why did 
we have to make the point that they 
have to be offset? The point that I 
want to make is that in the process of 
the offset, who did they go after? The 
poorest people in America. The bulk of 
the cuts for the offset came from domestic 
accounts, including $1.25 billion 
from the food stamp program, and $350 
million from Section 8 low-income 
housing programs as well as $22.4 million 
from the Labor Department contingency 
fund related to unemployment 
insurance. 

They reached into the programs that 
serve the poorest people, programs that 


H3832 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

may benefit the working families on 
the very lowest levels, and they took 
out the money to offset and make the 
point that they want to make cuts in 
social programs. 

There is a coming need, according to 
the budget that has been promulgated 
by the majority, a coming need to cut 
further, maybe $20 billion out of the 
domestic budget. Some of it could 
come from defense if they wanted to, 
but it will probably come out of the domestic 
budget; $20 billion will be cut 
and the preview of coming attractions 
we have seen already. The way the supplemental 
budget was handled tells you 
they are going to get it from the people 
who are the weakest, the people who 
have no power, working families, poor 
families, poor people who are not even 
working, the elderly, those who need 
Medicaid as well as Medicare; they will 
suffer as a result of the coming $20 billion 
cuts or more that may be proposed. 


Certainly they are not proposing investing 
any more money in education. 
Education, most of which would go 
into our public school system, is the 
place that you benefit working families 
most. Working families’ children need 
an education. There is no way to survive, 
there is no way for them to take 
advantage of the prosperity that keeps 
growing and growing as a result of high 
technology. The jobs that are available 
are jobs that require education. You 
are not going to be in on it, it gets 
worse all the time, the demands are 
greater and greater. 

I was at a job training consortium in 
New York City yesterday and they 
were telling me about the fact that we 
just need mechanics. In addition to the 
known need for information technology 
people, 300,000 vacancies in information 
technology, they need mechanics. They 
could hire 30,000 mechanics in the metropolitan 
area if they could find them. 
Why do they not have mechanics who 
would work on trucks and tractors and 
some of the machinery that industry 
needs? Why do they not have them? Because 
the demands have gone up educationally. 
There are computers and various 
devices being employed now in 
trucks and cars and various vehicles 
that require a little more education 
than a mechanic had to have 10 years 
ago or 5 years ago. 

So we have a problem, a creeping 
problem of people in basic areas, as 
basic as mechanics, auto mechanics, 
that cannot survive because they do 
not have the personnel to do the job because 
the education system is failing 
to produce that pool of people which is 
educated. A broad pool of people educated, 
you can reach in and pull out all 
kinds of people. The range of people 
with various kinds of skills and knowhow 
would be great. You would get the 
technicians, the mechanics, the theoreticians, 
the scientists, the geniuses. 
That certain percentage of people 
would come out if you have a broad 
range of people in the pool because we 
are educating the masses. Mass edu


cation is needed more now than ever 
before. 

But working families who need to 
have free education in the public 
school system, free but first rate, it 
cannot be education in facilities that 
are falling down, it cannot be education 
in situations where kids are 
afraid to go to school because of 
threats to their health and safety. It 
has to be the kind of education that everybody 
wants for their child here in 
this Congress. 

I know large numbers of Members of 
Congress send their children to private 
school. It is most unfortunate that 
they have given up on the public education 
system, but as public officials, 
whatever choice they choose to make 
privately, it is disloyal and dangerous 
to have public officials give up on our 
education system. 

So when you consider what happened 
in our $15 billion supplemental appropriation, 
you can see how trampling on 
working families is a problem. And 
there is going to be more trampling on 
working families. It is not just neglect. 
It is also active oppression to take the 
money out of the programs that benefit 
the poor the most. It is even worse 
than that. The active attack, the oppression 
which is very aggressive, continues 
to go on in the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce. I serve 
as the ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee 
on Workforce Protections. 
As the ranking Democrat on Workforce 
Protections, I will be the first to tell 
you that the name of the committee 
under this majority Republican administration 
ought to be changed. It is not 
workforce protection that they are 
concerned about. It is workforce persecution. 
It is workforce oppression. Because 
every bill that is introduced by 
the majority on that committee is an 
attempt to make life more difficult for 
working families. 

We have three coming up very soon 
we have just passed recently in the 
Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, 
and now it is going to go to the 
full committee, and they are a continuation 
of what was started in the 104th 
Congress and continued in the 105th 
Congress, and now it is done on a sort 
of a guerrilla warfare basis. It is not 
talked about as much but it is still the 
same agenda. They are attempting to 
take away rights that workers have 
won over the last 50 years. 

There is a bill, H.R. 987. It is an attempt 
to block the implementation of 
any ergonomic standards, standards 
which relate to the fact that there are 
jobs which require repetitive motions 
that end up in injuries and debilitation 
of people’s muscular faculties; they 
cannot function. Carpal tunnel syndrome 
is one of them. Back injuries are 
a large part of it, people who have repetitive 
kinds of activities that strain 
certain parts of their bodies. That is 
the broad topic of ergonomics the majority 
on the committee do not even 
want to have discussed. They do not 
want to allow the Department of 

Labor, the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration under the Department 
of Labor to do what they 
have been doing for years, establish a 
set of standards to relate to these 
workplace injuries, workplace dangers. 

So they have H.R. 987 which ironically 
the Republican majority on the 
committee calls the Workplace Preservation 
Act. It is an attempt to make 
the workplace more dangerous by 
blocking an effort to deal with a clear 
and present form of injuries that we 
have been discussing for the last 15 
years. So H.R. 987 is one of those examples 
of an attack on working families 
through a reduction in the safety provisions 
in the workplace. There are 
more than 6,000 people who die every 
year in our workplace situation, and 
then many, many others who are injured. 
This attack on the workers continues 
by the Republican majority. 

They have another one, H.R. 1381. It 
is an attempt to sabotage overtime 
payment rates by excluding bonus income. 
H.R. 1381 is ironically called Rewarding 
Performance in Compensation 
Act. But they have a way of reaching 
in to take out the income that is figured 
in the bonus in order to reduce 
the rate of hourly pay so that that is 
not included when you pay a person 
overtime. It is a little guerrilla trick, 
it is almost something you would not 
see or not respond to if you were not 
very alert. But it is an attempt to sabotage 
overtime payment rates by excluding 
bonus income. H.R. 1381, another 
attempt to reduce the benefits of 
working families. 

H.R. 1439 is another one. That attempts 
to undermine the OSHA, Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration’s 
enforcement by misusing the 
self-audit process. We have a self-auditing 
process that we encourage. We 
want to make a partnership between 
government and industry. But they 
want to allow industries to audit themselves 
and then not allow the result of 
the audit, which determines whether or 
not they have certain hazardous conditions 
in the workplace, in the plant, in 
the garage, whatever unit of employment 
this is. After they complete the 
audit, if they identify things that are 
wrong, they are allowed to keep it secret 
and we are saying, ‘‘No, you have 
to reveal what is there.’’ The self-audit 
process would be misused if you made 
your survey and audited yourself, identified 
hazards, and then refused to correct 
them because, of course, it might 
cost a great deal, but you keep them 
secret, nobody else knows about it. Of 
course you would fire any employee 
who also knows about it and then 
would report it. So we have H.R. 1439 
which again, an ironical title, is described 
as the Safety and Health Audit 
Promotion and Whistleblower Improvement 
Act of 1999. The Safety and 
Health Audit Promotion and Whistle-
blower Improvement Act of 1999 is an 
attempt to do just the opposite. It is 
going to make the workplace less safe. 
We have another bill, an alternative 
which we will offer at the final markup 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3833 

of the full committee which is entitled 
‘‘The Whistleblower Protection Act.’’ 
That is H.R. 1851 which I introduced as 
a countervailing force against the 
phony H.R. 1439. 

But I give you examples of concrete 
bills, the business that is going on here 
in this place. We are moving at a very 
slow pace. Things that ought to be 
done and ought to be on the agenda are 
not on the agenda. But the guerrilla 
warfare against working families, 
against workers in the workplace, the 
guerrilla warfare goes on. We ought to 
come to grips with the fact that this is 
wrongheaded, stubborn, unyielding, 
and at a time like this very dangerous 
in America. We should be investing in 
our workers in every way instead of oppressing 
them and neglecting them. 

b2100 
In another area, education, which I 
talk about often, education reform is 
still rhetoric. We are talking, always 
when we talk about education about 
nickels and dimes and lots of words. 
Everybody has adopted some kind of 
education platform, everybody is in 
favor of improving and reforming education, 
but nobody wants to spend significant 
amounts of dollars. Words instead 
of dollars is the order of the day 
with respect to education. Education 
reform is rhetoric, too much rhetoric 
in the area of the majority; and in 
many cases, in the minority, too, there 
is too much rhetoric and too little 
commitment to real dollars for education. 
School construction is one of the 
tests of whether or not we are only 
concerned with rhetoric and only going 
to play word games with the voters. Or 
are we really going to do something 
significant about education? 
The voters have given us a mandate. 
As my colleagues know, it is one of the 
few times in history where we have the 
focus groups and polls, everything 
keeps repeating the message over and 
over again. The voters of America want 
the Congress of the United States, and 
the President and the entire government 
to significantly take steps to improve 
education, to give Federal aid to 
education in the process of trying to 
improve education. 
Now, because the voters are saying 
that we will get plenty of rhetoric from 
both sides, but there is contempt for 
the whole public education process 
that is expressed in many ways. They 
express it in ways which relate to neglect 
and abandonment and indifference, 
but also it is sometimes expressed 
in a very active way. As I said 
before, there are actions taken which 
are aggressively against working families 
and things that working families 
need. Education and investment in education 
by the government is one of the 
things that working families would 
benefit from greatly, and they need it. 
We saw on the floor of the House 
today a vote which demonstrates great 
contempt for education, a great contempt 
for the whole research process. 

It happens to be an agricultural appropriations 
bill, and the agriculture appropriations 
bill, in the hassling back 
and forth for reasons that I do not 
clearly understand, the majority 
knows what it is doing; but for reasons 
that certainly are not noble and reasons 
that are not reasonable and were 
not laid out and described to the Members 
of Congress in any respectful details, 
a huge across-the-board cut in 
agricultural research, something like 
$100 million cut in agricultural research. 


Now, agricultural research is at the 
heart of America’s great food production 
system. As my colleagues know, 
agricultural research, the research, the 
educational part of it, the egghead part 
of it, that draws great contempt obviously 
from the majority party members. 
Instead of them dealing with subsidies 
which may be wasteful or the 
Farmers Home Loan Mortgage Program, 
and there are a lot of wasteful 
programs in agriculture just as there 
are in some other places in the government, 
but because they have constituencies 
and because the ol’ boys network 
demands that they be protected, 
they are protected. But academia and 
research, the people who are on the 
cutting edge of improving agriculture 
and responsible for the fact that Americans 
enjoyed the best food production 
system in the world, we get the best 
food at the lowest prices, and everything 
happened by accident. 

There is a long history involving education 
and research starting with the 
Morrill Act which created the land 
grant colleges. The model for land 
grant colleges was Thomas Jefferson, 
and the University of Virginia was the 
first State university. It was a very 
wise move by Thomas Jefferson who 
made, of course, numerous wise moves 
and set certain standards for our entire 
country that we still should be very 
grateful for and set us on a course that 
has proven to be very positive. 

Jefferson was not in favor of a national 
university. He did not want one 
big, huge university in Washington 
similar to the Sorbonne, to the Oxford 
chain in London. He wanted each State 
to have its own university, and Virginia, 
of course, was the first example, 
and later the Morrill Act established 
land grants for every State. The Federal 
land grant colleges were established, 
colleges and universities were 
established; and going beyond just the 
establishment of land grant colleges, 
they were given a mandate for practical 
education, practical education 
starting with an assumption that agriculture 
could be improved greatly if it 
benefited from science and education. 

So applied science in the area of agriculture 
became the driving force that 
took our farmers, long before farmers 
anywhere else in the world, into a 
whole new realm of production, greatly 
improving the yield of the land, greatly 
increasing the kind of production that 
resulted in our having a tremendous 
amount of surplus products, as we still 
do in many areas. 

This agriculture research, as my colleagues 
know, the experimental station, 
the theoretical base in the universities, 
the county agents to take it out 
to the farmers and show them how to 
apply it, it is one of the great things 
we should be very proud of, dissemination 
system for knowledge. As the 
knowledge was generated in the universities 
and the experimental stations, it 
was taken out to the farmers; the 
farmers applied it, and you got a result. 


That is all based on agricultural research. 
It begins with the research. 

So we just walked onto the floor 
today and found an amendment to wipe 
out $100 million worth of agriculture 
research. Is that responsible legislation? 
Are working families going to 
benefit from a crippling of our agriculture 
production system? There are 
always problems, as my colleagues 
know, in terms of new kinds of bugs 
and viruses and various kinds of things 
that go on and on that can wipe out 
gains that are made over the years if 
they are not researched, if they do not 
keep up with them. 

So even in the area of agriculture 
where we have such a sterling record of 
performance, today we found the reckless 
attitude towards the things that 
matter most to ordinary Americans 
take hold and in one fell swoop we 
wiped out some basic parts of our agriculture 
research system. 

Then, as my colleagues know, I think 
that a lot of this preoccupation with 
the reduction of programs that benefit 
working families, that benefit people 
who are in greatest need in our Nation, 
a lot of this preoccupation and obsession 
is based on the fact that eventually 
we are going to have a proposal on 
the floor for a huge tax cut, a huge tax 
cut for the people who are benefiting 
most from the prosperity that we have 
generated already. 

I said before that the stock market 
value has gone from $3 trillion in 1989 
to $13 trillion in 1999. So do the rich 
need a tax cut? Do they need some 
help? As my colleagues know, why are 
we preoccupied with making the budget 
safe for a tax cut? Why are we willing 
to cut food stamps and willing to 
cut low-income housing in order to 
make the budget safe for a tax cut? But 
that is what is coming. The Republican 
tax cut crouches in the bush like a 
wounded lion. It is there, it is not 
going to go away. 

One of the problems we have is that 
the people who represent and care 
about working families, the great majority 
of our Nation, of course, made up 
of working families, those people do 
not have a tax program for working 
families. Working families have suffered 
the biggest tax increase of any 
group in the last 20 years, the payroll 
tax, Social Security and Medicare. 
Those payroll taxes have jumped more 
percentage-wise than any other taxes. 
They hit the people on the very bottom. 
Nobody is proposing to relieve 
them. I have a few proposals that I 


H3834 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

would like to offer, and I will offer 
them in a few minutes. 

As my colleagues know, my point is, 
you need a whole platform, I guess, for 
working families, and we do not have 
it. My friends in organized labor, as my 
colleagues know, they have things that 
they care about that they are always 
telling us about, and those are the 
right kinds of things that working people 
need; but it all comes in bits and 
pieces. 

We need a whole platform which lays 
out the need for working families being 
given their fair share of the great 
American prosperity in many ways. 
The Republican tax cut should be answered 
by a proposal for a tax cut for 
working families as well. 

Between now and Election Day in November 
2000 we must lift up a meaningful 
platform for working families. The 
showdown will come sometime in the 
fall of the year 2000. The pattern has 
been the same for the last, and it will 
probably be the same as it has been for 
the last 4 years in the conflict between 
a Republican-controlled Congress, a 
Democratically-controlled White 
House. 

The really important measures are 
going to come down to a negotiation 
session at the White House between the 
majority in the Congress and the White 
House, the President. The really big decisions 
are going to be made then. 
What we do with this surplus is really 
going to really be determined then. 
Whether we are going to allow working 
families to have a share of the wealth 
of America through programs that benefit 
them will be determined then. 

So we have a scenario. We have time, 
but we have to start now visiting a 
platform for working families which 
has all of these components; and you 
know we have to come to grips with 
the fact that there is a mind-set in this 
Nation maybe among powerful people 
that they do not have to be concerned 
with the poor. The poor are poor because 
they did not make it, they are 
poor because they deserve to be poor. 
They are not wealthy, they are not 
able to take care of themselves without 
some help because that is the way it is, 
and that is the way it deserves to be, 
and why should the Nation care? 

As my colleagues know, we have 
whipped the welfare mothers to death, 
and they are becoming a nonentity in 
the political discussion. They have 
been whipped so often and so much, 
until they almost just disappeared. 
They may be still aching out there, 
there may be situations where we are 
causing more harm than good because 
we are putting families in a bind, and 
the children are suffering, and those 
suffering children are going to create 
great problems in the future for our 
health care system, our education system, 
our corrections system, prison 
system. As my colleagues know, we 
may be generating a lot of problems. 

Right now, they are invisible. We 
beat them to death, and now we are 
going after working families in the 

workplace, take their overtime, take 
away safety provisions, et cetera, because 
there is no ethic which says we 
have a responsibility to these people. 

Let me just take the conversation in 
a new direction. Because of the war in 
Kosovo, I think we ought to stop and 
think, as my colleagues know, and it 
certainly brings to mind it is one more 
situation where we are at war, there is 
no threat to the United States, and 
there are a lot of elements there that 
do not fit the description of the war 
against Hitler. 

As my colleagues know, World War II 
was a war where there was a real 
threat to the whole Western world, and 
it was just a matter of if we stood in 
line, if we did nothing, our time would 
come. So between, as my colleagues 
know, Tojo and Hitler we had to act, 
and it was a war which definitely was a 
war to save our own way of life. There 
may be doubts about other wars, but 
we had the same rationale in the Korean 
war and in the Vietnam war, and 
we always made the assumption that, 
you know, you had to do this, the domino 
theory of fighting the Communists; 
if you do not stop them there, they will 
keep going. 

I do not want to get into all of the 
various arguments, pro and con. Let us 
just accept war as a fact of life. Let us 
accept the fact also that the most any 
citizen can do for their country is place 
their lives at risk in a war. I mean, I do 
not know of anything greater that any 
citizen can do for his Nation, whether 
they are drafted and forced to go or 
whether they volunteer, that they are 
in a situation where they are on the 
firing line, their lives are at risk, than 
they are offering this supreme price. 
And of course, if they are injured and 
become casualties, they pay a great 
price, and of course, if they are killed 
in combat, they die. That is the supreme 
price, as my colleagues know, to 
have to give your life. So I do not 
think there will be any disagreement. 

Let me just point out the fact that, 
mind you, and I got these figures on 
casualties from the Pentagon, from the 
Archives, which got them, of course, 
from Pentagon research, so they are 
sound figures. 

b2115 
Who dies in the wars? Who dies? 
There is a lot of contempt always directed 
at our big cities, our inner-cities, 
where the poor live mostly. One of 
the things that is coming out over and 
over again, and some Democrats are as 
guilty as Republicans, is they do not 
want to do anything about the public 
school system, because if you had legislation 
which appropriated large 
amounts of money for school construction 
and you did it on the basis of need, 
where the oldest schools are and the 
needs are and they do not have libraries 
and laboratories, buildings are more 
than 75 years old, if you did it on that 
basis, most of the money would go to 
the big cities. They have the greatest 
need in that area. 

Just like we have an insane argument 
now that is being promulgated by 
the Committee on Transportation, I 
think in the Senate, in the other body, 
that need relates to the fact they say 
Los Angeles and New York are getting 
too much transit money, too much 
mass transit money. 

Los Angeles and New York are the 
places where you have most of the 
mass transit. New York has more than 
30 percent of all the mass transit in the 
country, of the riders, and yet we do 
not get 30 percent of the funding. The 
amount we get, however, has aroused 
the ire of certain people and they want 
to cut down the amount New York gets 
or Los Angeles gets in transit money. 
That is where the people are. 

Why do we have large amounts of 
casualties come out of the big cities in 
every war. World War I, World War II, 
the Korean conflict, the Vietnam conflict, 
where did most of the casualties 
come from? The big states with the big 
cities. 

New York has always led in casualties, 
even back to the Gettysburg battle. 
The largest numbers of casualties 
at Gettysburg were soldiers from New 
York State. They did not break it down 
by city, but I assure you most of them 
were poor immigrants out of the cities. 

But I will not go back to that. I am 
not interested in discussing the fact 
that valor and willingness to fight and 
all kinds of conditions are in motion to 
generate casualties. But the fact is 
that the casualties come out of the 
places where people live, where the 
population is. That is where you are 
going to have the people to put their 
lives at risk, the people who died, who 
paid the supreme price. They will be 
the people that come from the areas 
where the most people are. It is simple 
arithmetic. 

New York in World War I, there were 
total casualties of 35,100 official casualties. 
Out of those there were 7,307 combat 
deaths, those causalities, larger 
than any other state. For some reason 
California in World War I was very low. 
I think maybe because it was not as 
highly urbanized and the poor were not 
as concentrated then as they are now. 
Whatever the reason, New York. 

Pennsylvania had 29,576 casualties, 
5,996 deaths in World War I. By the 
way, Pennsylvania has Philadelphia, 
Pittsburgh, the big cities. Illinois has 
Chicago, Springfield, big cities: 15,000 
casualties, 3,000 combat deaths. Ohio, 
Cleveland and Cincinnati, big cities, 
14,487 casualties, 3,073 deaths. Massachusetts, 
with Boston and a couple 
other big cities, 11,455 total casualties, 
2,253 deaths. Michigan, with Detroit, 
9,000. New Jersey, a small highly urbanized 
state, 8,776 casualties. There is 
a pattern. 

The pattern is the same in World War 

II. The casualties went up a great deal. 
New York, 89,656 total casualties, 27,659 
deaths in combat from New York 
State. Why? Because they were braver 
than anybody else? Maybe. I do not 
know. The important thing is that is 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3835 

because that is where the people are. 
Larger numbers came from New York, 
because that is where the people are, 
first of all, and probably that is where 
the poorest people are who were drafted 
in larger numbers, and they went off 
and fought and died for their country. 

Why do we treat that class of people 
with great contempt now? Pennsylvania, 
81,000 casualties, 24,000 died in 
combat. Illinois, where Chicago is located, 
54,000 casualties, 17,000 died in 
combat. Ohio, 49,000 casualties, 15,000 
died in combat. They came out of the 
big cities where the people lived. California 
in World War II, more urbanized, 
47,000 total casualties, 17,000 died in 
combat. 

Korea, New York had 8,780 casualties, 
2,249 combat deaths. Pennsylvania, 
again, second, Illinois, third, Ohio, 
same pattern. 

Vietnam, the same pattern: New 
York, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Massachusetts, 
Ohio, Michigan, California. 
Simple arithmetic. 

The point is, the people who die, who 
pay the supreme price for their country, 
come out of the big states and the 
big cities. Therefore, we have every 
right to treat them with great respect. 
We should honor the dead from these 
areas by making certain that the living 
always are given the fullest possible 
benefits the government can offer. 

Why are we abandoning the big city 
school systems when so many ancestors 
of the present children in those 
systems paid such a high price to create 
and maintain the America that we 
have now? Think about it. Think about 
it. 

The people who died, who paid the 
highest price to keep our Nation going, 
deserve to be respected at all times, 
not the present attitude, the wrongheadedness, 
the unyielding stubbornness 
toward poor people and working 
families that has taken hold among decisionmakers, 
not among the voters. 

The voters say we want education to 
be the number one priority of the government. 
The decisionmakers in Washington 
say all right, we will play games 
with you and pretend it is number one, 
but if you look at the appropriations 
process, we are not appropriating that 
kind of money for education. 

We had a bill last year which authorized 
$218 billion for highways and 
transportation, $218 billion. There was 
money for mass transit in there. That 
is part of what is being appropriated 
this year. They are having a big debate 
about taking away some of the mass 
transit funds from New York where the 
riders live. Where the people are, for 
some reason, our hearts and our appropriations 
do not go. 

There is some flaw maybe in our 
whole system. The grand compromise 
that our forefathers made when they 
established the Nation, that they had 
to make because the states existed before 
the Nation, the grand compromise 
of giving two representatives to every 

has over the last 20 to 25 years essentially 
been anti-urban, anti the population 
centers of the Nation, anti-policies 
that would benefit the great 
masses. So we have a reversion kind of 
thing going here in our great democracy, 
and our great democracy, one-
man, one-vote, is being diluted and distorted 
in a way which results in policies 
and power which hurts the great 
majority. The places where the people 
live are getting the worst attention or 
the least attention in terms of their 
needs. 

Education is a clear area of great 
need. In Kosovo we have had zero casualties, 
so far have zero casualties, but 
if ground troops had been needed they 
would have come from the same places 
that they always come from, in large 
quantities they would come out of the 
big cities. 

Go and look at the Vietnam Wall. I 
love the Vietnam Wall as a monument 
because it broke the pattern. No more 
ever will we have tombs of unknown 
soldiers. Tombs of unknown soldiers 
mask the great tragedy of war. The 
fact that the Vietnam memorial lists 
the names one by one, they are all 
written there, they are all honored for 
what they have done in terms of paying 
the supreme price for their country, 
they stand out as individuals. I have 
seen many people cry at that wall because 
it comes home personally. That 
is the way war ought to be depicted. It 
is a very personal kind of set of tragedies. 


‘‘Saving Private Ryan’’, Spielberg’s 
great movie, starts out and is based on 
the premise that a whole family has 
contributed a certain number of sons 
and the last son ought to be saved. I 
think that in the beginning of the 
movie when they drive out to the house 
to meet the mother, it is a very poor 
family, relatively speaking, a poor 
family that has given those sons. That 
is a pattern of World War I, of World 
War II. Why do we have contempt in 
our policies for the people that we expect 
to die for America? 

Madam Speaker, I will submit a little 
summary that I made called Big 
State, Big City Casualties, which lists 
some of the things that I have just said 
about where the casualties are, in 
which states, and the statistics are by 
state, and also indicates the cities located 
in those states. 

I have, of course, a bigger record that 
is more complicated. It lists all the 
states. In the case of the war in Vietnam 
they even list the casualties by 
race. You find that the black casualties 
there are greater than the proportion 
of blacks in the population. In Vietnam 
certainly, when they kept statistics by 
race, some of the same people were 
treated with great contempt as we 
abandon our school systems and abandon 
our safety net, health care services, 
welfare. Those same people paid 
the supreme price for our country in 
large numbers. Let us stop and think 
about the pattern of exploitation, neg-

We need a tax plan which addresses 
itself to the needs of working families. 
Not only are we in a situation where 
the only targets for cuts, for taking 
away benefits that have existed for 
years, are programs that benefit working 
families and poor families, the poor 
who do not work, the elderly, the disabled, 
a lot of people who are not working 
who benefit from these programs, 
we are not only targeting the cuts for 
them, we are targeting the benefits of 
government policy to the rich. 

We have got tax proposals that are 
going to be brought out and put on the 
table between now and the end of this 
appropriations process, and, of course, 
they will be pursued again next year in 
the final showdown that takes place in 
this Congress, this two year span. 
There are going to be tax cuts on the 
table and a bargaining process, and we 
are probably going to end up with some 
kind of tax cut. 

All those people who are benefiting 
from the great increase in wealth, the 
jump from $3 trillion to $13 trillion, a 
large amount of that is what you call 
unearned income. Unearned income is a 
term I did not invent, but it is all the 
money you make that does not come 
from wages directly. 

Wage earners provide the principal 
support for the Federal Government. 
Almost two-thirds of Federal revenue 
comes from income and Social Security 
taxes that are paid by workers, 
people who earn wages. They are the 
ones that provide the taxes. It is taxes 
on earned income. 

By contrast, income taxes on unearned 
income, stocks and bonds and 
that kind of thing, produce only about 
12 percent of the total Federal revenue. 
I propose, and I think that the working 
families platform that ought to be 
adopted by working families and organizations 
that are supposed to represent 
them, I propose a massive shift 
in the burden of the taxes from the 
earned income of working people to the 
unearned income of those who are getting 
the greatest increases in wealth. 

Ten years ago, the early 1989, as I 
said, the value of all U.S. stocks was 
about $3 trillion. Now it is about $13 
trillion, a $10 trillion increase. That is 
the opportunity. You can get new revenue 
from that increase and the people 
who are continuing to earn without 
any pain being caused. 

The great political position that we 
need a tax cut is not related to pain 
and the reduction of pain; it is related 
to a wrong-headed, unyielding, stubborn 
policy which defines ‘‘them’’ and 
‘‘us’’ and disregards the fact that there 
is a place, there ought to be a place, for 
working families to share the great 
wealth of America. 

I introduced on March 11 of this year 

H.R. 1090, which I call the Social Security 
Protection and Tax Relief Act of 
1999. It cuts the Social Security tax 
rate from 7.65 percent to 6.4 percent. 
b2130 

state created a powerful body which ative, abandonment of working fami-This will give a tax cut of $15 for 
represents a minority, and that body lies in America. every $10,000 of earned income to all 


H3836 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

working families and to the rich as 
well as the poor, if the rich are working 
and earning wages, and whether or 
not they pay income tax, of course, 
they will benefit through the various 
devices in place in the Tax Code. 

So cuts of the social security tax, 
payroll taxes, where the biggest increases 
have taken place over the last 
20 years, and where the people on the 
bottom are taxed at the same rate as 
the people on the top, those cuts would 
be a great benefit for working families. 

My H.R. 1099 imposes a new 12 percent 
social security tax on all taxable 
unearned income to offset what you 
would lose from reducing the taxes on 
people at the lowest levels. We propose 
social security taxes on all taxable unearned 
income. 

I also on April 12 introduced another 
bill, H.R. 1390, the Income Tax Fairness 
Act of 1999. That cuts all income tax 
brackets by 3 percentage points, all income 
tax brackets, from the highest to 
the lowest. The present rates in the 5 
brackets are 15 percent, 28 percent, 31 
percent, 36 percent, and 39.6 percent. 
The new rates would be 12 percent, 25 
percent, 28 percent, 33 percent, and 36.6 
percent. 

I am not on the Committee on Ways 
and Means, and I know most people 
would consider it inappropriate that I 
should be here talking about taxes and 
changes in the tax policy. 

The Committee on Ways and Means 
is an exclusive committee. For the benefit 
of people who are not close to 
Washington, we have a caste system in 
the Congress. There are exclusive committees 
and there are other committees 
for the peasants. I am not on an 
exclusive committee. The Committee 
on Appropriations is exclusive, the 
Committee on Ways and Means is exclusive, 
the Committee on Commerce 
and the Committee on Energy are exclusive. 


Some of the wrongheadedness and 
anti-democratic attitudes that are generated 
come out of the structure itself. 
It is all wrong to say that education is 
a lesser committee. The Committee on 
Education and the Work Force is not 
an exclusive committee. However, what 
is more important to the Nation at this 
point than the education system which 
brought us to where we are and will 
take us into the future? 

At any rate, I am not on the Committee 
on Ways and Means, but I think 
every Member of Congress has a right 
to speak out and offer the best wisdom 
that they can offer to stimulate the 
discussion. Hopefully we will develop a 
platform which all the people who consider 
themselves advocates for the average 
American, the average taxpayer 
out there, the working families, will 
also get involved in the debate. 

Steve Forbes and the various other 
conservatives should not be the only 
ones who are concerned about tax reform. 
There ought to be a tax reform 
program that comes from working families 
and their advocates. 

H.R. 1390 cuts deductible depreciation 
on nonresidential buildings from 2.6 
percent per year, and it is based on an 
estimated useful life of 39 years, et 
cetera, et cetera, some other details 
that I think we need not go into. 

The estimate is that this tax program 
that I offer will be either revenue-
neutral or a revenue-plus. Total 
Federal revenue, income and social security 
taxes, will be reduced by between 
$190 to $200 billion per year and 
increased by the same amount or more, 
$200 to $250 billion a year by the mechanisms 
in these bills. 

I am also convinced that the great 
social security problem we all talk 
about, and we have good reason to 
worry about, the great social security 
problem could be dealt with if we were 
to place a social security tax on all unearned 
income. In addition to the tax 
on earned income, let us put it on all 
unearned income. That is the area of 
greatest growth. That is the area 
where the ratio of people in the workplace 
does not determine what goes 
into the social security coffers. 

Let us have a social security tax on 
unearned income for the first time, and 
that will save the social security system 
for at least two generations, and I 
suspect will go even beyond that and 
solve the problem once and for all. 

In other words, I think working families 
deserve a platform, a program of 
their own. I hope the candidates, certainly 
the candidates in the Democratic 
Party for president, will break 
out of the mold, will break out of the 
conventional wisdom, and move forward 
and talk in more direct and affirmative 
terms about programs which 
benefit the great masses in America. 

Finally, I want to conclude on the 
program that I think benefits the most 
people, and all of us, but certainly 
working families in dire need of the 
public education system that is able to 
deliver the kind of education that is 
needed as we go into the new millennium. 


As we go into the 21st century, we 
need the best schools in the world. We 
are not going to be able to maintain 
our lead economically if we do not have 
the best educated populace in the 
world. We are not going to be able to 
maintain our strong military if we 
don’t have the best educated populace 
in the world. 

Already we have great shortages in 
the Navy. I understand the last great 
super aircraft carrier that was 
launched was short of personnel by 300 
people. They could not find 300 people 
to staff it. There are other shortages 
throughout the Navy and other services, 
shortages of appropriate personnel. 


Are there shortages of bodies in a Nation 
with more than 250 million residents? 
There is never a shortage of bodies. 
They are talking about a shortage 
of people who have the capacity and 
the prerequisite training to be able to 
deal with a high-tech military. The 
Navy needs people who have some kind 
of education which prepares them to 
learn how to operate high-tech weap


ons. The Air Force needs the same kind 
of people. The Army needs the same 
kind of people. 

Even in the military, we need the 
best security effort that we can launch, 
which would be a better educated population 
through a revamped public education 
system, everywhere we go, economics, 
foreign policy, globalization, 
military, and even social security. 

If we are worried about social security, 
what is the great worry about social 
security? The number of people 
who are going to be on social security 
as we progress into the 21st century, 
the ratio of people who are earning or 
drawing money from social security 
will be far greater than the number of 
people who are in the work force paying 
into social security. That is a simple 
understanding that is correct. We 
are going to have fewer people paying 
into social security than are getting 
benefits from social security. Then we 
have a situation where if we do not find 
new sources of revenue, it is going to 
run out of money. 

I have just indicated part of the solution 
may be to look for other revenue 
sources for social security. But even if 
we stay with the primary revenue 
source of wage-earners paying into the 
social security fund, if we have an education 
system which guarantees that 
the jobs that are created in this Nation 
will be there and the people who are in 
the Nation can qualify for them and 
earn wages and pay into the social security 
system, we are helping social security. 


So education helps to keep us strong 
militarily, it helps to keep us strong 
economically. Education is the best investment 
we can make in social security. 


The problem now is that because already 
we have not been able to fill 
many of the jobs in the high-tech industries, 
corporations are contracting 
out to other nations. Bangalore, India, 
is called the computer capital of the 
world because in Bangalore, India, they 
have numerous contractors from this 
Nation who are contracting with firms 
in Bangalore to provide computing 
services. And because of our high-tech 
communications facilities, we can do 
that kind of thing. 

In addition to large numbers of corporations 
contracting to firms located 
in Bangalore, and the people in Bangalore, 
of course, pay their social security 
into the Indian system, not the 
American system, we have also large 
numbers who come to this country as 
foreign workers and improve their 
skills because they are hired in the 
jobs that cannot be filled by our corporations. 
They go back and make the 
computer and other high-tech industries 
of their Nation even more efficient 
and effective as competitors. So 
wherever we look, we find the need for 
greater investment in education. 

There are many ways we can invest 
in education. We have talked about a 
lot of them. I do not think that I would 
rank reducing the classroom size over 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3837 

construction or construction over reducing 
the size of the elementary classes, 
but I would like to say that a school 
construction initiative which is meaningful 
would send a message to the 
whole Nation and the whole public education 
system. 

If we believe in a religion, then the 
first visible commitment of that religion 
is manifested in the kind of 
church they build or temple they have 
or synagogue they have. The physical 
facility is not at the heart of what the 
religion is all about, but the physical 
facility is a visible manifestation of a 
commitment. 

If we abandon the public schools of 
this Nation, and we have a situation 
similar to the one we have now, where 
we are spending only 23 cents per child 
on physical infrastructure in the elementary 
and secondary schools, the 
Federal commitment, the Federal portion 
of the commitment to the physical 
infrastructure right now is about 23 
cents per child. We have 53 million 
children in school. When we look at the 
amount of money the Federal Government 
is spending, it is about 23 cents 
per child. 

I propose a bill, H.R. 1820, which I 
have already introduced and am seeking 
cosponsors, where we would spend 
$417 per year per child instead of 23 
cents per year per child. For $417 per 
year per child, we could deal with the 
crumbling, dilapidated schools, schools 
that endanger the health of youngsters 
because they have coal-burning furnaces, 
lead pipes, some have serious 
problems in terms of the roof. No matter 
how many times you repair it, the 
water seeps into the walls at the top 
and it keeps coming down. Lead paint, 
lead is in the paint. There are all kinds 
of dangers. 

Many buildings are just so old. We 
have a lot of buildings in New York 
City that are 75 years or older, many 
that are 50 years old. This is not unique 
to New York City. All of the big cities 
have the same problem. Many rural 
areas, of course, have even worse problems. 
They never had sound buildings. 
We need a construction effort. 

I conclude by saying that investment 
in the public education system is one 
of many of the steps we need to take to 
end the oppression of working families 
and provide benefits, and have them 
share in the wealth, instead of being 
objects of our contempt. 

Madam Speaker, I include for the 
RECORD the following information on 
World War II: 

BIG STATE, BIG CITY CASUALTIES 

State Total casualties 
Combat 
deaths Three big cities 
World War I 
New York ....... 
Pennsylvania 
Illinois ........... 
Ohio ............... 
35,100 
29,576 
15,984 
14,487 
7,307 
5,996 
3,016 
3,073 
New York, Buffalo, Albany 
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, 
Harrisburg 
Chicago, Springfield, Peoria 
Cleveland, Cincinnati, Dayton 
Massachusetts 
Michigan ....... 
New Jersey ..... 
California ...... 
11,455 
9,702 
8,766 
6,153 
2,153 
2,213 
1,761 
1,352 
Boston, Amherst, Burlington 
Detroit, Ann Arbor, Lansing 
Newark, Jersey City, Hoboken 
San Francisco, Oakland, Los 
Angeles 

BIG STATE, BIG CITY CASUALTIES—Continued 

State Total casualties 
Combat 
deaths Three big cities 
World War II 
New York ....... 
Pennsylvania 
Illinois ........... 
Ohio ............... 
89,656 
81,917 
54,686 
49,989 
27,659 
24,302 
17,338 
15,636 
New York, Buffalo, Albany 
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, 
Harrisburg 
Chicago, Springfield, Peoria 
Cleveland, Cincinnati, Dayton 
Massachusetts 
New Jersey ..... 
California ...... 
31,910 
31,544 
47,073 
9,991 
9,742 
17,048 
Boston, Amherst, Burlington 
Newark, Jersey City, Hoboken 
San Francisco, Oakland, Los 
Korean Conflict 
Angeles 
New York ....... 
Pennsylvania 
Illinois ........... 
Ohio ............... 
8,780 
8,251 
6,435 
6,614 
2,249 
2,327 
1,744 
1,777 
New York, Buffalo, Albany 
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, 
Harrisburg 
Chicago, Springfield, Peoria 
Cleveland, Cincinnati, Dayton 
Michigan ....... 5,181 1,447 
Vietnam 
Detroit, Ann Arbor, Lansing 
New York ....... 
Pennsylvania 
Illinois ........... 
Ohio ............... 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
4,108 
3,133 
2,926 
3,082 
New York, Buffalo, Albany 
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, 
Harrisburg 
Chicago, Springfield, Peoria 
Cleveland, Cincinnati, Dayton 
Massachusetts 
Michigan ....... 
California ...... 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
1,317 
2,641 
5,563 
Boston, Amherst, Burlington 
Detroit, Ann Arbor, Lansing 
San Francisco, Oakland, Los 
Angeles 

f 


REPORT ON RESOLUTION PROVIDING 
FOR CONSIDERATION OF 

H.R. 1401, NATIONAL DEFENSE 
AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL 
YEAR 2000 
Mrs. MYRICK (during the Special 
Order of Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania), 
from the Committee on Rules, submitted 
a privileged report (Rept. No. 
106–175) on the resolution (H. Res. 200) 
providing for consideration of the bill 

(H.R. 1401) to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal years 2000 and 2001 for military 
activities of the Department of 
Defense, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for fiscal years 2000 
and 2001, and for other purposes, which 
was referred to the House Calendar and 
ordered to be printed. 
f 


INFORMATION RELATIVE TO THE 
COX REPORT 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. 
BIGGERT). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of January 6, 1999, the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
WELDON) is recognized for 60 minutes. 

Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. 
Madam Speaker, I rise tonight to continue 
to provide for our colleagues in 
the House and for the constituents that 
they represent across the country information 
relative to the Cox report 
and the way this report is being spun 
by this administration. 

Madam Speaker, I had wanted to go 
into much of the information I am 
going to share tonight in more detail 
yesterday, but because I had to leave 
after 30 minutes, I could not go into detail 
last evening. I will do so tonight. 

Madam Speaker, I want to start off 
this evening, as I did last night, by saying 
it is not my normal course to spend 
every evening over a given period of 
time on the floor of this House discussing 
the same issue. But like eight 
of my colleagues, I spent almost the 
last year of my life focusing on the investigation 
that we were asked to per


form by the leadership in both parties 
in this body on potential security harm 
done to our country by our policies relative 
to China and other nations that 
might benefit from technology developed 
here in America. 

We worked tirelessly behind closed 
doors, cooperating fully with the FBI 
and the CIA, and with the full support 
of George Tenet, who heads the CIA, in 
trying to determine whether or not 
there were damages done to our national 
security, and if so, what was the 
extent of that damage. 

We deliberately made a decision 
when we began the process last summer 
that we would not go into the specifics 
of campaign finance activity or 
what other motives would have driven 
policymakers to lower the thresholds 
for exports, or perhaps the reasons why 
influence would be allowed by Chinese 
nationals and others, both at the White 
House and to other Federal agencies, to 
allow those key players to gain access 
to the key decisionmakers that would 
benefit them in acquiring technology. 

b2145 
The nine Members that were a part of 
the Cox committee represent a broad 
basis of views in this Congress, four 
Democrats and five Republicans, very 
serious Members; and our goal was and 
the result was a totally nonpartisan effort. 
We looked at every aspect of technology 
that may in fact pose problems 
for us down the road: whether or not 
that technology had in fact been transferred; 
if so, to what extent, how it was 
transferred, and what the implications 
were for our long-term security. 
The almost 1,000-page document that 
we completed is, I think, very detailed 
and certainly would be required reading 
for any American. The problem is, 
most American citizens, like most 
Members of Congress, do not have the 
time to sift through almost 1,000 pages 
of detailed explanations and stories 
relative to various technologies that 
had been transferred out of the U.S. 
over the past several decades. 
Therefore, because much of this is 
contained within the thousand-or-sopage 
report, even though 30 percent of 
that remained classified because the 
administration would not declassify 
the entire document, the media, to a 
large extent, have chosen not to focus 
on the substance of what is in the Cox 
committee report. 
Unfortunately, the bulk of the American 
media, and I say the bulk because 
there are a few exceptions, people like 
Jeff Girth with the New York Times, 
who has been doing tireless work in 
this area before our report was even 
issued; people like Carl Cameron at 
Fox News, who continues to do extensive 
work in this area; people like 60 
Minutes, who are right now doing research 
in these areas, and other network 
affiliates, they are the exception. 
The bulk of the mainstream media 
have chosen to accept the spin that has 
been given by this White House to the 
work that we did. 


H3838 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

What I am trying to do, Madam 
Speaker, is to present information to 
our colleagues, which they could, in 
turn, provide to their constituents, of a 
factual basis that compliments the 
work that was done by the Cox committee. 


Now, the public at large can receive 
copies of the Cox committee report. It 
is available on the newsstand, or they 
can get it on the Web site that has 
been established by the Cox committee 
itself. Many libraries now have copies 
of the Cox committee three-volume series. 


Last evening, I mentioned the fact 
that I have now established a Web site 
on the Cox report that goes beyond the 
information that is covered in the Cox 
report and provides the visual explanation 
of the overview of the problem 
that we dealt with in the Cox committee. 


So our colleagues, Madam Speaker, 
and all of their constituents can now 
turn to the Internet where they can access 
the material I am going to show 
this evening, and they can download 
the actual charts that I am going to 
provide. In addition, smaller versions 
of these larger charts have been made 
available to every Member of this 
body. All they have to do is contact my 
office, send a staffer over; and be they 
Republican or Democrat, they can get 
the charts and all the related information 
that goes with the charts so they 
can share this information in a factual 
way with their constituents. 

The Web site where our colleagues 
and the American people across this 
country can access this information is 
www.house.gov/curtweldon. Any American 
represented by any one of our colleagues 
can access this information 
through that Web site. 

In fact, last evening, we had a number 
of contacts from throughout the 
country from people who want to get 
additional factual information in an 
investigational form, in a condensed 
form about what actually the Cox report 
focused on. 

As I have said in a series of speeches 
that I have been giving both here and 
around the country, Madam Speaker, 
the focus of the Cox committee was not 
just on our laboratories. Now, if my 
colleagues listen to Bill Richardson, 
the Secretary of Energy and the point 
person that has been asked by the administration 
to provide the spin for the 
Cox committee report, my colleagues 
would think that our report only focused 
on our laboratories, Los Alamos, 
Sandia, and Lawrence Livermore in 
particular. Nothing could be further 
from the truth, Madam Speaker. 

While it is true, the laboratory security 
was one part of what we looked at, 
it is only one small part of the bigger 
picture of the way that we loosened the 
controls over our technology for the 
past 7 years. 

The American people need to understand 
that this effort was well beyond 
our laboratories. But as I did last 
night, I want to highlight four specific 

actions that rebut what Secretary 
Richardson has been saying around the 
country as the point person for this administration 
as he has tried to spin the 
Cox committee report as though it is 
only concerned with lab security. 

Now, Madam Speaker, our colleagues 
know full well, because they have read 
the text of Mr. Richardson’s speeches, 
that his focus has been something 
along the lines of this: This administration 
was the administration who uncovered 
the Chinese espionage in 1995 
that happened in previous administrations 
that were run by Republicans, 
and we took aggressive action in this 
administration to correct those problems. 


Secretary Richardson would have the 
American people believe and would 
have our colleagues believe that this 
administration had no responsibility 
whatsoever in technology being transferred 
to China and that the only thing 
they did was that they uncovered the 
fact that, in 1995, they learned that 
China had stolen the designs for our 
warhead capabilities, the W–88 and the 
W–87, that occurred in previous administrations. 
That has been the extent of 
Secretary Richardson’s comments. 

He has also gone on to say, now, 
look, we have taken steps to correct all 
of this, and today we have corrected 
the bulk of the problems. 

Well, I am here to rebut that, Madam 
Speaker. I would like to do it in a 
forum where I could stand directly 
across from Secretary Richardson, or 
even the President, and have a chance 
to go at it verbally and exchange information, 
but it looks like that is not 
going to be possible. 

The national media outlets will put 
Secretary Richardson on the Sunday 
morning talk shows to give the White 
House spin, but they have yet to give 
full consideration to the factual rebuttal 
to what Secretary Richardson has 
been saying. So I am going to attempt 
to do that here again on the public 
record tonight. 

First of all, we must remind the 
American people that contrary to what 
Secretary Richardson has been saying, 
it was this administration, under the 
leadership of then-Energy Secretary 
Hazel O’Leary in 1993 that ended the 
policy of color coding laboratory security 
credentials at our laboratories. My 
understanding is that she thought having 
color coded badges was to some extent 
discriminatory and they were not 
necessary. So under her administration, 
acting on behalf of Bill Clinton, 
we did away with that process in 1993. 

Now what did that mean? That 
meant, Madam Speaker, that all of 
those employees at our labs that we 
used to be able to tell by the color of 
the identifying ID system that they 
had on them no longer could be done, 
or no longer could be checked, because 
we did away with that color coding, 
making it much more difficult to determine 
where employees could or 
could not work or be in a particular 
classified laboratory setting. 

So under Secretary Hazel O’Leary, 
this administration ended the practice 
of visually being able to identify what 
people at our labs could or could not 
have access to key areas. Now, obviously 
that made it much easier for unauthorized 
people to go into areas 
where they did not have appropriate 
clearance. 

Now, if this policy were so acceptable 
and defensive, my question is, why did 
this administration 2 weeks ago reinstate 
the policy as it existed under 
President Reagan, President Bush, and 
even President Carter and before that? 
If this policy change, which Secretary 
O’Leary made on behalf of Bill Clinton 
in 1993 and 1994, was so critically important 
and logical, why 2 weeks ago 
did they go back to the policy as it was 
under Republican Presidents? 

Was perhaps there some new revelation 
that this relaxation that occurred 
by the Clinton administration in 1993 
and 1994 led to security problems in our 
laboratories? Bill Richardson has yet 
to answer that question. 

Second point, Madam Speaker, we 
have not heard Bill Richardson talk 
about the fact that it was under Secretary 
Hazel O’Leary, acting on behalf 
of President Clinton, that FBI background 
checks of people who worked at 
our labs and visited our labs were put 
on hold. 

Now, why do we have FBI background 
checks? They were there to discourage 
people who should not have access 
to our country’s secrets to get into 
places where those secrets were kept. 
That was not done prior to 1993, Madam 
Speaker. That was done by this administration 
as a major change in policy 
that opened the floodgates for people 
to go to our labs, who in previous years 
would not have been allowed access to 
those facilities. 

Bill Richardson has not dealt with 
that issue, because as he said, this administration 
only inherited problems 
and did everything to correct them. 

Third point. There was an incident 
involving a retired employee from 
Lawrence Livermore Laboratory in the 
1993 to 1995 time frame, where that employee, 
former employee, was accused 
by the Department of Energy of having 
released sensitive classified information 
to unauthorized people. The Department 
of Energy investigated that 
employee. The Oakland office of the 
Department of Energy saw fit, based on 
the factual evidence to remove that 
former employee’s classified status so 
that he no longer, as a retiree, had access 
to classified information. 

The employee appealed that decision 
to the Secretary of Energy’s office. 
Hazel O’Leary herself overturned the 
decision of the Oakland Department of 
Energy office and allowed that retiree 
to retain his classified status. When 
that occurred, Madam Speaker, employees 
all across DOE involved in sensitive 
security areas got the feeling 
that this administration felt that giving 
away classified secrets was no big 
deal. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3839 

We lowered the threshold for the se-Here is the color version of what the of Safeguards and Security. In this capacity, 
curity clearance process. We stopped Department of Energy released to U.S. 

I have been responsible for the development 
and promulgation of policy that governs the

the FBI background checks. Then we News and World Report. This design 

protection of the national security assets en-

even had an employee who was accused shows in some detail the way our most 

trusted to the department, to include those

by the Department of Energy itself, capable nuclear warhead works. It 

assets that are part of the nation’s nuclear

and found guilty of giving classified in-shows and explains the process, it 

weapons program. I am also responsible forformation. The Secretary herself over-shows and locates the technology, the providing training and specialized technical 
turned the Department of Energy deci-fuel, the process, the activity, the advice and assistance to DOE field sites 
sion to take away his security clear-physics of the way America’s most ca-when requested. My office is also charged 

ance. 

Now, those people that I have talked 
to in the Department of Energy who 
worked under Hazel O’Leary, way more 
than one or two people, have said that 
under her leadership, there were wholesale 
actions to declassify massive 
amounts of information, in some cases 
boxes and cartons of records that no 
one had gone through, simply declassified, 
made available for people to 
read in a spirit that I guess was considered 
openness, even though these were, 
in many cases, the most important 
technical secrets that this country 
had. 

Let me give my colleagues one particular 
example, Madam Speaker. Secretary 
Richardson has gone around the 
country, and he has made the case that 
when this administration found the 
evidence in 1995 that China had stolen 
or received the design for our most capable 
nuclear warheads, the W–88 and 
the W–87, that this administration immediately 
corrected those problems so 
they would never occur again. Even 
though Janet Reno cannot properly explain 
why the Justice Department 
turned down requests for four wiretaps, 
for efforts by one of our employees at 
one of our labs that we thought was a 
spy, Secretary Richardson has said 
they took aggressive action. 

Now, that is what he said publicly. I 
wish he would answer this question, because 
that same year, in 1995, U.S. 
News and World Report published a 
special report entitled ‘‘Shockwave.’’ 
‘‘Shockwave’’ was printed on July the 
31, 1995, distributed all across the country 
and around the world. I am sure a 
number of these copies were sold in 
China. 

b2200 
Because when I traveled to Beijing I 
saw copies of U.S. News and World Report 
on the shelves that people could 
buy. The same thing in Russia. These 
copies were available in North Korea, 
in Iran or Iraq. This edition of U.S. 
News and World Report’s Special Supplement 
were sold wherever people 
would pay the price of whatever this 
document cost, $3.50. What was in this 
special report on the last page, which I 
showed last evening, was startling. 
On July 31, 1995, this administration, 
not the Reagan administration, not the 
Bush administration, not the Carter 
administration, this administration 
leaked the design for our W–87 warhead 
to U.S. News and World Report. Not 
just the Chinese, the North Koreans, 
the Iraqis and Iranians, anyone who 
would buy U.S. News and World Report 
on July 31, 1995 got a documented diagram 
of the W–87, which up until that 
point in time was classified. 

pable warhead would work. This was 
not secretly stolen by the Chinese, that 
this administration maintains they 
found in 1995. This diagram was given 
to U.S. News and World Report by this 
administration in 1995, and reproduced 
in U.S. News and World Report. 

As I said last evening, Madam Speaker, 
I have been told, and I am tracking 
this down right now, that there was an 
internal investigation within the Department 
of Energy to find out who 
leaked this diagram, this sensitive diagram 
to U.S. News and World Report. 
Because I have been told, Madam 
Speaker, that that individual and 
group were told to stop the investigation. 
Why? Because the assumption 
was that this diagram came from Hazel 
O’Leary’s office herself. 

Why are we not hearing Secretary 
Richardson talk about this, Madam 
Speaker? Why is he not talking about 
in 1995, in July, when this diagram for 
the W–87 was reproduced and sold on 
newsstands all over the world to anyone 
who would pay the price? This was 
not some secret espionage capability of 
the Chinese. This was the Department 
of Energy, following Hazel O’Leary’s 
desire to open up to the people of the 
world our most secret information 
about technologies important to our 
country. 

There is one additional factor that 
needs to be investigated, Madam 
Speaker. There was an individual, or is 
an individual employed at the Department 
of Energy who has currently been 
placed on what I call political administrative 
leave. His name is Edward J. 
McCallum. He was the one who briefed 
Members of Congress and their staffs 
about problems with one of our nuclear 
facilities, Rocky Flats. When it was 
found out that he had done the outrageous 
thing of informing Congress 
about security concerns at one of our 
nuclear sites, what was the response of 
this administration? They put him on 
administrative leave. Secretary Richardson 
has announced that he is going 
to fire Mr. McCallum because he claims 
he gave out classified information. 

Madam Speaker, I cannot believe 
this is happening in America, but there 
is some added irony here. Madam 
Speaker, I am providing for the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD, a document dated 
May 3, 1999, prepared by Mr. McCallum 
which outlines the problems at Rocky 
Flats and what steps he took to correct 
them. 

STATEMENT OF EDWARD J. MCCALLUM 
Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity 
to speak with the committee today on 
the Department of Energy’s Safeguards and 
Security Program. Over the past nine years, 
I have served as the Director of DOE’s Office 

with conducting special inquiries into incidents 
of security concern to include, but not 
limited to, those incidents involving the unauthorized 
disclosure of classified information. 


As you may know the Department of Energy 
has placed me on Administrative Leave 
since April 19, 1999. DOE officials allege that 
I committed a security infraction by claiming 
that I disclosed classified information 
during a conversation with a whistleblower 
from the Rocky Flats site. Based on the Department’s 
own classification procedures and 
guidelines (CG–SS–3, Chap 10, Dispersal of 
Radioactive Material), I firmly believe that 
these allegations are completely unfounded. 
I have been an authorized classifier in the 
DOE and it’s predecessor organizations for 
over 25 years and helped develop the first 
classification guide in this area in 1975. Further 
DOE also failed to follow its own procedures 
in investigating these issues before 
placing me on Administrative Leave. I believe 
this action to be an obvious act of retaliation 
against the individual and the office 
that has tried to bring an increasingly 
distressing message of lax security at the 
DOE Laboratories forward since 1995. 

Prior to joining the Office of Safeguards 
and Security I held several high level positions 
within the department’s safeguards and 
security program areas. From 1988–1989 I 
served as Director, Office of Security Evaluations. 
In 1978 I joined the DOE at the Chicago 
Operations Office and in 1979 became 
the Director of the Safeguards and Security 
Division. Prior to joining DOE I served as an 
officer in the U.S. Army. Active military 
service included a number of Military Intelligence 
and Special Forces assignments in 
Europe and Southeast Asia. I culminated my 
military duty after over thirty years of active 
and reserve service. 

In fulfilling my responsibilities as the Director, 
Office of Safeguards and Security, I 
have attempted to provide senior DOE management 
with the most sound, professional 
judgment possible concerning the status of 
security within the department, along with 
recommendations as to how best to rectify 
shortcomings. As you are no doubt aware, 
much of what I have offered over recent 
years has not been altogether positive, nor 
well received. The steady decline in resources 
available to the DOE safeguards and 
security program as well as a lack of priority 
have allowed the department’s protection 
posture to deteriorate to a point where a 
program that long operated in a defense in 
depth mode, where no single point failure 
permitted the system to fail, can no longer 
afford such a strategy. 

The information presented in this statement 
is not new. It has been repeated consistently 
over the last decade in Departmental 
reports such as the Annual Reports 
to the Secretary in 1995, 1996 and 1997 by the 
Office of Safeguards and Security. External 
reviews such as the Report to the Secretary 
in 1991, by General James Freeze, and the 
Nuclear Command and Control Staff Report 
on Oversight in the DOE in 1998 cite similar 
concerns. There have also been a large number 
of General Accounting Office Reports on 
these areas. However, for numerous reasons 
the department has not been able to resolve 
these serious and longstanding problems. 


H3840 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

COMPUTER SECURITY 

One of the primary interests expressed by 
the Committee, and indeed widely covered 
by the media recently, is the loss of classified 
information from the computer systems 
at the National Laboratories. Indeed, we 
may be sitting at the center of the worst spy 
scandal in our Nation’s history. 

The DOE Computer Security Program suffers 
from a variety of problems. One of the 
primary concerns is the protection of unclassified 
sensitive information processed by the 
Department and the relationship of these 
systems to the classified architecture. Relatively 
little guidance has been issued on 
how to protect sensitive but unclassified information. 
System administrators are 
charged with the responsibility for designing 
their own protective measures. Unfortunately, 
many of them do not have the computer 
security background or knowledge required 
to implement a sound computer security 
program. Attempts to issue comprehensive 
guidance by my office and the Chief Information 
Officer as early as 1995 met with 
significant Laboratory resistance. Several 
Laboratories complained that providing protection 
such as firewalls and passwords were 
unnecessarily expensive and a hindrance to 
operations. Implementation of the proposed 
Computer Security Manual in 1996 would 
have prevented many of the problems being 
reported today. 

Another area of great concern is the migration 
of classified information from systems 
approved for processing classified data 
to less secure unclassified processing systems. 
My office has noted a number of problems 
in this area to include: Failure to conduct 
classification reviews before placing information 
onto an unclassified processing 
system, intentionally creating unclassified 
data that is very close to classified data to 
ease processing, and using personal computers 
at home to process classified information. 


A variety of computer security tools and 
techniques, such as encryption devices, firewalls, 
and disconnect features, are available 
and their use is required; however, these protective 
measures are not always used. In 
some cases, this is due to lack of knowledge 
by system administrators. In other cases, it 
is due to lack of funding or priority for the 
required equipment. 

PROTECTIVE FORCES 
While much of the attention of late has 
been directed toward the area of foreign visitors 
and the protection of classified information, 
equally serious cause for concern exists 
in other areas as well. For instance, since 
1992, the number of protective forces at DOE 
sites nationwide has decreased by almost 
40% (from 5,640 to the current number of approximately 
3,500) while the inventory of nuclear 
material has increased by more than 
30%. The number of Protective Force Officers 
has declined to the point where it is 
questionable at some facilities whether the 
DOE Protective Force could defeat an adversary. 
By 1996 several facilities were no longer 
capable of recapturing a nuclear asset or facility 
if it were lost to an adversary. Indeed, 
a number of sites stopped even training for 
this mission because resources had been reduced 
below the minimum level necessary to 
expect success. We have had some success in 
increasing these numbers of recent years so 
that at this time all sites report they can 
meet this minimum capability. Several sites 
are using performance tests to verify that 
their Protective Force can defeat the adversary; 
however, many of these tests are not 
realistic. For example, performance tests 
sometimes are not consistent in providing 
the adversary with the weaponry or explosive 
breaching devices used by terrorist 

groups. At times artificial ‘‘safety constrains’’ 
are imposed on exercise adversary 
teams that effectively neutralize their ability 
to operate. This results in ‘‘winning’’ the 
performance test, in a less than realistic scenario. 


There have been several other consequences 
of the reduction in the number of 
Protective Force Officers. First is a relatively 
older Protective Force (the average 
Protective Force Officer is now in his/her 
early 40s). Second, DOE sites are relying on 
local law enforcement agencies to handle serious 
security threats. Their ability in nuclear 
terrorist situations is questionable. 
Third, sites have difficulty increasing the 
tempo of security operations during high 
threat periods. Fourth, Protective Force personnel 
are displaying lower morale due to reduced 
training and job stagnation. Finally, 
an average annual overtime rate in our nuclear 
weapons facilities of approximately 
25% has detrimental effects on safety, training, 
and response capabilities. 

EXERCISES 
A centrally funded and well-integrated National-
level security exercise program is 
critical to meet the safeguards and protection 
needs of DOE and the nation. Exercises 
that address site response and management 
of security crisis are required by regulation 
to be held annually at critical DOE facilities. 
However, participation by State and 
local law enforcement, regional offices of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and 
other Federal agencies is inconsistent and 
varies considerably across the complex. 
Under Presidential Decision Directives 39 
and 62, the Secretary of Energy is directed to 
conduct exercises to ensure the safety and 
security of its nuclear facilities from terrorism. 
DOE is also tasked to support the 
FBI in its lead as the Federal agency responsible 
for managing all domestic incidents involving 
terrorist threat or use of weapons of 
mass destruction (WMD). In addition, the recent 
creation of the Department of Justice 
National Domestic Preparedness Office, the 
FBI Critical Incident Response Group 
(CIRG), and other National crisis response 
assets, requires that DOE plan and practice a 
new and expanded role in supporting a security 
crisis response beyond the local site and 
internal Department level. 
Currently, the present DOE organizational 
structure separates exercise responsibility 
between Program offices and Safeguards and 
Security; this hampers the integration of sequential 
training objectives that can be 
monitored and tracked and creates confusion 
at the site level. More importantly, the majority 
of the funding resides at the site level 
where expenditures must vie with other program 
needs each fiscal year, often to their 
detriment. 
PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS 
Another area of concern involves aging and 
deteriorating security systems throughout 
the DOE complex. Physical security systems 
are critical to ensure the adequate protection 
of Special Nuclear Material (SNM). 
Many facilities have systems ranging in age 
from 14 to 21 years, and are based on mid-70’s 
to early-80’s technology. Because of the obsolescence 
of these systems, replacement parts 
and services are increasingly expensive and 
hard to obtain. Expensive compensatory 
measures (i.e., protective force response) are 
required to ensure needed confidence levels 
of adequate protection. Older systems are 
also increasingly vulnerable to defeat by advanced 
technologies that are now readily and 
cheaply available to potential adversaries. 
Continual reductions, delays or cancellations 
in line-item construction funding increases 
the vulnerability risks to sites protection 
capability. Also, DOE is not realizing 

significant savings available through advancements 
in technology that have increased 
detection, assessment, and delay capabilities. 


Some sites are using a variety of nonstandard 
security alarm and access control 
systems that have not been fully tested to 
determine if they contain vulnerabilities, or 
if they meet Departmental requirements 
without compensatory measures. Such systems 
may have back doors or viruses, that 
allow the insider adversary to cripple the entire 
site protection system, thus leaving the 
site vulnerable. Some sites do not have 
qualified personnel to conduct these vulnerability 
tests and are generally unwilling to 
conduct any type of attack on the system to 
determine if such vulnerabilities can be accomplished. 


COUNTERTERRORISM MEASURES 
PDD–39, The United States Policy on 
Counterterrorism, requires all governmental 
agencies to implement security measures to 
defend against Weapons of Mass Destruction, 
including chemical and biological weapons. 
The Office of Safeguards and Security has 
developed the necessary policies and requirements 
for implementing PDD–39. Field Elements, 
however, have been slow to purchase 
and install explosive detection systems, with 
only a limited number of sites having done 
so. Program Offices claim that there is no 
funding for such equipment. 
PERSONNEL SECURITY 
I fear that a recent decision by the department 
to have program offices fund the cost 
of clearances for field contractor personnel 
will have severe repercussions. Since implementing 
this new approach at the beginning 
of FY 1999, we have already begun to see a 
dramatic increase in the backlog of background 
investigations. As with other security 
areas, program offices must decide upon 
competing interests when determining those 
areas to be funded. Unfortunately, security 
activities are relegated to a lower tier in 
terms of importance by some program offices 
and selected field sites. This appears to be 
the case with the funding of security background 
investigations. As the first line of defense 
against the ‘‘insider’’ threat, the adequate 
funding and timely conduct of reinvestigations 
is critical to ensuring the department 
maintains a protection posture commensurate 
with the level of threat. 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
Operating beneath the surface of these 
major challenges are some fundamental 
issues that, if properly addressed, could provide 
the impetus to effect real progress. 
These challenges, for the most part, are not 
new, nor are their solutions. 
Organizational Structure: In all of the reviews 
of the safeguards and security program 
conducted during the last decade, there is a 
recurring theme. Simply, the Department’s 
organizational structure of the Safeguards 
and Security Program is such that programmatic 
authority and responsibility are 
not properly aligned. The Safeguards and Security 
Program in its current structure has 
one organization developing policy, training 
and providing technical field assistance 
(NN), another organization providing funding 
and ‘‘implementing guidance’’ (Headquarters 
Program Offices), a third organization (Field 
Site) is responsible for implementation of 
policy, while a fourth (EH) is responsible for 
oversight. A fundamental change in both the 
organizational structure and funding of the 
Safeguards and Security Program is absolutely 
necessary before the Department can 
begin to systematically address the major 
challenges previously addressed. These organizations 
must be consolidated with policy, 
guidance and implementation in one location, 
with an appropriate budget to participate 
in the Department decision making. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3841 

Safeguards and Security Program Funding: 
This is the central, driving issue. Budget 
cutbacks have adversely affected all of DOE. 
As previously alluded to, however, when Program 
Offices face funding shortfalls, there is 
a tendency to cut security programs on a pro 
rata basis without the benefit of assessing 
the impact these cuts would have on the department’s 
protection posture. The implementation 
of virtually every security program, 
from the Information Security Program 
to the Protective Force Program, has 
suffered significantly as a result. I believe 
many of these cuts are shortsighted and ill 
advised as they eventually lead to security 
lapses. Nevertheless, my office has no authority 
to force the Program Offices to implement 
departmental security policies and 
requirements. Similarly, my office has no 
funds to provide to Program Offices or Field 
Elements to help pay for appropriate security 
measures. Without an adequate budget 
there is simply no authority. 

Security Policy and Requirements Formulation. 
DOE security policies and requirements 
are based upon current threat data 
and requirements identified by outside intelligence 
organizations. DOE, the Department 
of Defense, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
and the Central Intelligence Agency meet 
every two years to evaluate current threat 
data and formulate an agreed upon threat 
statement that governs security programs 
throughout the U.S. Government. In addition, 
the Department of Energy internally 
reviews this threat statement annually. In 
DOE parlance, the resulting document is 
known as the Design Basis Threat. Program 
Offices are required to use the Design Basis 
Threat as the baseline for planning security 
measures. Security requirements are also 
levied upon the Department by the Office of 
the President, Congress, and the General 
Services Administration. For example, Presidential 
Decision Directive 39 directed all 
Executive Branch agencies to protect 
against terrorist attacks. This resulted in an 
increased need for explosive detection equipment, 
more frequent security patrols, and 
hardening of structures. In some cases, Program 
Offices have directed their field elements 
not to implement departmental security 
requirements. This is due to 2 main reasons: 
The program offices can’t afford the 
new directive, or they simply don’t agree 
with it. In other cases, they have issued interpretive 
guidance that changes the security 
policy or undermines the effectiveness 
of that policy. Again, the Office of Safeguards 
and Security has no authority to demand 
compliance with departmental security 
policies and requirements. 

ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
I would be less than forthcoming if I failed 
to mention some positive aspects of the department’s 
safeguards and security program. 
Let me start by saying that the program is 
staffed by hard working dedicated men and 
women throughout the country who are 
firmly committed to protecting the critical 
national security assets entrusted to their 
care. The responsibilities of these individuals 
are most demanding, even dangerous in 
some respects. Yet despite the dwindling resources 
made available to them, these individuals 
continue to perform in outstanding 
fashion. Where this department has failed is 
in providing these professionals the necessary 
resources to allow them to perform 
their responsibilities appropriately. The Department 
has also failed to provide protection 
so that individuals will bring forward 
problems and deficiencies without fearing retaliation. 
Progress has been made in some of the 
areas I previously addressed. In the area of 

physical security, the Department is working 
to correct identified weaknesses. Specifically, 
the Department augmented security at 
some field sites by deploying new technologies 
to safeguard special nuclear materials 
and weapons; worked with other agencies 
to train departmental protective forces; 
identified and developed more sophisticated 
detection and deterrent systems; and hired 
additional security personnel. New explosive 
detection systems are being installed at selected 
nuclear facilities and some sites are 
upgrading access control systems. 

In the area of information security, the 
Secretary recently directed the shut down of 
classified computer operations at three national 
laboratories until such time as he was 
assured that information processed on the 
systems is being done so securely. From a 
longer-term perspective, the department is 
requesting a dramatic increase in budget for 
information security. The additional funding 
will be used to help further secure the department’s 
classified and unclassified computer 
networks. The improvements will help 
strengthen fire walls, develop better intrusion 
detection devices, and fund rapid response 
teams to work with the FBI to detect 
and track cyber intruders. 

In the area of the control, measurement 
and accountability of special nuclear materials, 
the Department has established the 
Fissile Materials Assurance Working Group 
(FMAWG) to assess needed areas of improvement 
and make recommendations. In this regard, 
the FMAWG identified unmeasured 
materials and initiated actions to resolve 
discrepancies. They further identified issues 
regarding the safeguarding of irradiated material 
and are promulgating policy for implementation. 
The Department is developing 
new technologies for tamper indicating devices 
and proposing pilot projects for field 
implementation. 

A PATH FORWARD 

All of these positive steps are good, necessary 
actions to ensure the adequacy of our 
protection posture. More is needed, however. 
As previously addressed, organizational realignment 
of safeguards and security activities 
is sorely needed. I understand that this 
is now under review by the department. 
While addressing the problems inherent in 
the current organizational structure of the 
Department will not in itself solve all of the 
issues contained in this report, it will establish 
the necessary framework to allow resolution 
in a more effective and lasting manner. 
Simple organizational realignment, 
however, by itself, will not result in the fundamental 
change in approach that is required. 
The Department should work closely 
with Congress to establish a budget line item 
for safeguards and security. Doing so will enable 
a more accurate accounting and control 
of safeguards and security expenditures. It 
will also improve the likelihood that policy 
will be issued in conjunction with the necessary 
resources to implement that policy. 

It should be apparent that attempts to 
have effective internal oversight of the DOE 
safeguards and security program have failed 
over a twenty-year period. While there have 
been high points and periods when oversight 
has been effective, organizational and budget 
pressures have played too central a theme 
for this function to remain within DOE. An 
organization like the Defense Nuclear Facilities 
Board should be established to independently 
review Security at DOE and the Laboratories. 
Further a direct reporting mechanism 
should be established to one or more of 
the Congressional Committees. 

Perhaps the biggest challenge facing the 
department today as we strive to meet our 
protection responsibilities is the attitude 
throughout the complex toward security. 

There are some that believe that safeguards 
and security is an overhead expense. I disagree, 
strongly. Safeguards & security is a 
mission-critical element. Without it, why 
bother creating new national defense technologies, 
if present or future foes can have 
ready access to it? To treat it as a mission-
critical element requires a greater sense of 
accountability than seen to date. Secretary 
Richardson has committed to establishing 
and maintaining a sound safeguards and security 
program. It will take the commitment 
not only of the Secretary, however, but of 
each and every program official throughout 
the department if this mission essential element 
is to be fulfilled. It is incumbent upon 
senior departmental management to make 
safeguards and security a priority. It is too 
important to be relegated to a secondary status 
where its operations are viewed as ancillary. 
Both Congress and the public rightfully 
expect our best effort in executing this vital 
program. We should demand no less from 
ourselves. 

DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, 

Germantown, MD, January 27, 1997. 

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION LIST 
From: Edward J. McCallum, Director, Office 
of Safeguards and Security. 
Subject: Status of Safeguards and Security. 

This report provides a comprehensive review 
of Safeguards and Security activities 
throughout the Department of Energy complex 
during 1996 and provides a candid look 
at the future of the Program. The report is 
structured to present a Departmental perspective 
of the Safeguards and Security Program 
to senior management and all safeguards 
and security professionals. For the 
first time the report also contains a section 
which summarizes safeguards and security 
participation in National Nuclear Command 
and Control activities. 

During the past year disturbing trends continued 
that resulted in additional budget reductions, 
further diminishing technical resources, 
reducing mission training and undermining 
our ability to protect nuclear 
weapons, special nuclear materials and other 
critical assets. This is occurring at a time of 
increased responsibilities resulting from the 
international transfer of nuclear materials 
and dismantling of U.S. nuclear weapons. Although 
traditional and time proven protection 
principles are still emphasized, it is becoming 
increasingly difficult to adequately 
protect our nation’s nuclear stockpile in the 
face of inadequate resources, obsolescent 
systems, aging protection forces and funding 
uncertainties. This has increasingly resulted 
in a ‘‘hollow-force’’ that goes below the ‘‘bottom 
line’’ and makes it more difficult to fulfill 
National Security mandates. It is imperative 
that the Safeguards and Security 
downward resource spiral be immediately 
halted. Further, nuclear materials must be 
consolidated to reduce costs or additional resources 
must be found for protection. Adequate 
investment is essential to sustain a 
vital Safeguards and Security Program that 
continues to support the nation’s security, 
the public health, safety and our environment. 


I am confident that the report will be a 
valuable tool to stimulate open conversation, 
provide constructive feedback and assist 
in addressing the continued viability of 
the Department’s Safeguards and Security 
Program. Collectively, we must continue to 
strive to maximize the use of our resources 
necessary to ensure requisite security for the 


H3842 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

Nation’s and the Department’s most vital assets. 
Attachment. 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, 

Washington, DC, March 16, 1999. 

Dr. ERNEST MONIZ, 

Acting Deputy Secretary, Department of Energy, 
Washington, DC 

DEAR DR. MONIZ: As the Central Intelligence 
Agency’s representative to the Department 
of Energy (DOE) Security Management 
Board, I would like to convey some important 
perspectives concerning on-going 
discussions to reorganize the Department’s 
security element. Of concern is consideration 
that is being given to further decentralize 
DOE’s security management apparatus 
and assignment of security expenses to 
indirect costs (i.e., overhead) at the individual 
sites and Laboratories. In my judgment, 
and based on our experience at CIA, 
DOE should undertake such reorganizational 
and budgetary alignments advisedly. 

Using CIA’s experience as an example, reorganization 
through division can be highly 
ineffective and inefficient. Shortcomings to 
CIA’s 1994 decision to divide the Office of Security 
were quickly exposed, including: expensive 
duplication of security activities, deteriorated 
management focus over a tangential 
security program, elimination of a coherent 
security career service, and dilution 
of CIA’s leadership role in the Community. 
Adding to the difficulties, security managers 
under this arrangement had limited control 
over their fiscal fate, having been placed 
alongside and beneath numerous budgetary 
layers. 

Director Tenet recognized these inefficiencies 
immediately, and placed me in charge of 
consolidating CIA’s program in 1997. In addition, 
he has provided security with a stronger 
voice in its fiscal future. The process to 
reconstitute our security apparatus has been 
challenging; but, its benefits have already 
become apparent through a stronger, more 
viable security program. 

The lessons learned after CIA decentralized 
its security organization have also been experienced 
by other agencies, several of which 
have chosen to reconsolidate their activities. 
With such stark examples of the shortcomings 
of decentralization in security 
apparatuses, I urge you to give strong consideration 
to the implications of such reorganization 
of DOE. 

Furthermore, in today’s world of sophisticated 
technological threats, and given the 
developing review at one of the National 
Laboratories so widely publicized, I would 
further caution against leading the charge 
toward field autonomy, and anticipated the 
Department looking toward reinforcing centralized 
security expertise. 

When appointed to the Security Management 
Board a year ago I expected that the 
Department wanted the input of the representatives 
from other Agencies in security 
issues of this nature. In fact, I believed that 
obtaining such outside counsel on issues of 
this nature was the purpose for which the 
Board was created. Unfortunately, my experience 
with the Board indicates that it is a 
feckless exercise with no accomplishments 
almost fifteen months after it was established. 
I would welcome the opportunity to 
further discuss my views with you at your 
convenience. 

Sincerely, 

RAYMOND A. MISLOCK, Jr. 

Associate Deputy Director 
For Administration for Security. 

[From the Wall Street Journal, May 3, 1999] 

CONGRESS BRINGS NEW INQUIRES INTO 

WEAPONS SECURITY FAILURES 

(By John J. Fialka) 

WASHINGTON.—House and Senate investigators 
are launching new inquires into the En


ergy Department’s $800 million security program 
and how it failed to stop the apparent 
compromise of many of the nation’s most 
valuable nuclear-weapons secrets. 

Rep. John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat 
who led several of the House Commerce 
Committee’s previous investigations in the 
1980s and early 1990s, charged that the department 
runs a system of ‘‘inverse reward 
and punishment.’’ People who have identified 
lax security at the nation’s defense labs have 
been punished and those who somehow finesse, 
ignore or abuse the program have been 
rewarded, he said. 

The panel will hold hearings this week on 
the latest example of this seeming paradox: 
Edward McCallum, the Energy Department’s 
top internal critic of security deficiencies, 
has been put on leave and is being investigated 
by the Federal Bureau of Investigations 
for allegedly leaking secret information. 
At the same time, Wen Ho Lee, the 
former Los Alamos nuclear-weapons scientists 
who allegedly transferred many of 
the nation’s most sensitive nuclear-weapons 
codes to an unprotected computer between 
1983 and 1995, is described by the FBI as being 
‘‘unprosecutable.’’ 

There is no evidence that China obtained 
any of the codes, although Mr. Lee met with 
China’s weapons experts on two occasions 
during the 1980s and Chinese scientists were 
among the most frequent visitors to the lab. 

The Commerce Committee has threatened 
to subpoena 13 Energy Department officials 
who know about the investigation of Mr. 
McCallum, a 25-year department veteran 
who, among other things, has complained 
about difficulties in trying to protect the secret 
computer system at Los Alamos. The 
network of 2,000 computers is used to store 
digital models of nuclear tests that show, 
moment-to-moment, how nuclear weapons 
work. 

Committee members have invited Mr. 
McCallum to testify along with another department 
veteran, Glenn Podonsky, who 
runs internal inspections for the agency. 
While Republicans are leading the charge in 
the various congressional investigations, the 
two witnesses and others are expected to tell 
of foul-ups and budget shortfalls that date to 
the Carter administration. 

Energy Department reports show that Mr. 
Podonsky, as early as 1994, had identified the 
problem that researchers could transfer data 
from the secured computer system to the unprotected 
one. 

Over the weekend, Department of Energy 
officials said that a classified report prepared 
by U.S. intelligence agencies in November 
showed that there had been numerous 
efforts to penetrate the weapons laboratories’ 
unclassified computer system. The secret 
report also noted that China was among 
a number of nations the laboratories should 
regard as a threat. Still, investigators didn’t 
examine Mr. Lee’s computer until March and 
didn’t close down the classified system until 
last month. The report’s findings were first 
published in the New York Times. 

Brooke Anderson, a spokeswoman for Energy 
Secretary Bill Richardson, said the secretary 
‘‘is extremely concerned that the 
hearing may bring potential disclosures of 
classified information and his priority is to 
protect the national security.’’ Mr. Richardson, 
a former member of the Commerce Committee, 
irritated its leaders after a security 
hearing last week, accusing the panel of 
‘‘exhuming the past.’’ 

David Tripp, Mr. McCallum’s lawyer, said 
the information involved in the allegations 
against Mr. McCallum wasn’t classified and 
that he is being punished for being ‘‘a pain in 
the neck’’ about exposing security problems. 
Rose Gottemoeller, the assistant energy secretary 
who removed Mr. McCallum from his 

job, denied that was the reason, calling Mr. 
McCallum ‘‘a valued security professional’’ 
who has made ‘‘major improvements.’’ 

Despite substantial spending on ‘‘gates, 
guards and guns,’’ one problem that had received 
relatively little scrutiny is the so-
called insider threat. As the Cold War has 
faded, the threat has grown because many 
Americans now shun careers in engineering, 
physics and mathematics—skills in demand 
at the weapons labs. The shortage forced the 
labs to turn to foreign-born experts who had 
become naturalized U.S. citizens, such as Mr. 
Lee, Taiwanese whose skills included modeling 
nuclear-weapons explosions on supercomputers. 


[From the TelePort of: Ed McCallum, May 7, 

1999] 
To: Al Santoli. 
Memo: This is draft and has not been given 

to DOE except verbally. It clearly shows 

there was no classified unless DOE wants 

to change the published rules./Ed 

DRAFT 

HERNDON, VA, May 6, 1999. 
Subject: Classification Analysis of Rocky 
Flats Transcripts 
Mr. JOSEPH MAHALEY, 

Director, Office of Security Affairs, U.S. Department 
of Energy, Washington, DC. 

DEAR JOE: Since I have not been given the 
opportunity to present my technical analysis 
of the classification decisions that I made 
during the subject discussions with the DOE 
contractor whistleblower, Mr. Jeff Peters, I 
will do so now. The presentation being made 
in this letter should have been part of the 
first step of the inquiry process described in 
DOE Manual 471.2–1B, 7a.(1), and should have 
been completed before proceeding with any 
inquiry. If both sides of a technical discussion 
had been laid on the table before the Department’s 
classification authority, I firmly 
believe a determination would have been 
made at that time that the tape conversation 
and subsequently released transcripts 
were unclassified. 

To date, six authorized classifiers have assessed 
the transcripts. Two areas of the conversation 
have been identified for further review. 
First, reference is made to ‘‘20 percentile’’ 
and ‘‘80 percentile’’, but no further 
context is provided by either speaker. Even 
if the reader can speculate the discussion relates 
to protective force computer modeling, 
no specific scenario is developed, no specific 
facility (e.g. building or vault, as stated in 
Topic 610 of CG–SS–3) is identified, and no 
specific attack developed. 

DOE Classification Guide, CG–SS–3, Chapter 
6, ‘‘Vulnerabilities’’, D. states clearly 
that information must, ‘‘meaningfully aid a 
terrorist or other malefactor in targeting 
DOE facilities or bypassing security measures 
. . .’’. 

Vulnerability is defined in Appendix A, Definitions 
of CG–SS–3, as ‘‘an exploitable capability 
or an exploitable security weakness. 
. . . If the vulnerability were detected and 
exploited by an adversary, then it would reasonably 
be expected to result in a successful 
attack . . .’’. Clearly, no exploitable vulnerability 
is discussed within the meaning and 
intent of this classification guide that has 
been used by DOE for over 25 years. 

The second area of conversation identified 
for review is the statement ‘‘Put some HE on 
top of it and boost it up—you don’t need to 
take it in the middle of Denver, it’s going in 
the middle of Denver anyway.’’ This portion 
of the conversation refers to a radiological 
dispersal device. CG–SS–3, Chapter 3, ‘‘Malevolent 
Dispersal of Radioactive Material’’, 
provides detailed guidance for classification 
in this area: 

Paragraph C, states that for information 
to be classified it must be,’’ . . . detailed, 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3843 

specific information that, if not controlled, 
would significantly enhance the probability 
of such a dispersal’’. Further elements of the 
same paragraph require elements such as 
‘‘Details of specialized access procedures to 
areas or equipment . . .’’. ‘‘Detailed scenarios 
(combining details of radioactive 
source type, size and form; container design; 
dispersal mechanism design) . . .’’ 

Topic 1101.1 states specifically ‘‘Trivial or 
generally known methodology’’ is Unclassified. 


Topic 1030, ‘‘Design of credible Radiation 
Dispersion Device (RDD), states a design is 
‘‘Unclassified for unsophisticated designs.’’ 

Topic 1052 cites ‘‘Generic description of 
methods that could be used to disperse radioactive 
material (e.g., fire, explosives)’’ as Unclassified. 


Special nuclear materials discussed in the 
conversations have been publicly associated 
with the nuclear weapons program and included 
in Section 51 of the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954. They are defined as ‘‘Pure Products’’ 
and as ‘‘High-Grade Materials’’ in unclassified 
DOE Regulations and in CG–SS–3. 

Further, information concerning radioactive 
source term and scenarios of worst 
case dispersal with consequence estimates 
are contained in great detail in Safety Analysis 
Reports for each site. These reports contain 
worst case scenarios for radiological releases. 
They are unclassified, published and 
available in DOE Public Reading Rooms and 
periodically on the internet. 

I know of no other issues that have been 
reviewed or could be considered even close to 
classified information. Further, I was given a 
30-minute briefing on Defense Programs 
weapons design program(s) in the past. Nothing 
I have seen or heard of these programs 
would void or invalidate the published guidance 
in CG–SS–3. 

I firmly believe that I have not disclosed 
classified information and have not crossed 
any boundaries, real or imagined. In no case 
were details or specifics provided any reader. 
Speculation might cause a reader to draw 
conclusions that are completely external to 
these illegally recorded conversations. The 
transcripts have been reviewed by a number 
of authorized classifiers and all have reached 
the conclusion that the conversation does 
not contain classified information and in no 
way crossed any prohibited boundaries. 

I believe I have seen a rush to judgment on 
this classification issue and subsequent actions 
that violate the procedures published 
in DOE classification guidance and DOE 
Manuals relative to the investigation of a 
potential compromise. If the basic elements 
of ‘‘due process’’ had been followed this 
would have only been a technical discussion 
with possible clarified technical guidance 
provided by one side or the other. In closing, 
if Defense Programs believes these elements 
are so sensitive, then why weren’t adequate 
physical protections immediately put in 
place to allay their concerns? 

Sincerely, 

DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, 

Germantown, MD, February 3, 1999. 
Memorandum for Joseph S. Mahaley, Direc


tor, Office of Security Affairs 
From: Edward J. McCallum, Director, Office 

of Safeguards and Security 
Subject: Hagengruber Study. 

I have completed my initial review of the 
subject document and offer the following impressions. 
These thoughts are not intended 
to be all inclusive, nor do they address all of 
the facts that I find questionable. In this regard, 
I have directed the Office of Safeguards 
and Security (OSS) Program staff to conduct 
a thorough review of the entire report with 
respect to its factual accuracy. Upon completion 
of this review, detailed comments re


garding factual inaccuracies will be forwarded. 
Beyond the factual accuracy of some 
of the items found in the report, however, it 
is evident that this study not only misses 
the mark of the task assigned, but if left unchallenged 
could serve to damage the Department’s 
standing in the security and intelligence 
community at large. 

In reading the report, I am struck by the 
elementary understanding it portrays of the 
Safeguards and Security (S&S) Program, 
specifically as it relates to the national level 
directives that provide much of the foundation 
for many of the areas called into question. 
There is no mention of the Presidential 
Decision Directives (PDD) or the requirements 
contained therein governing federal 
agencies and their policies toward 
counterterrorism, explosives detection, radiological 
sabotage, and chemical/biological 
weapons defense. In fact the assertions offered 
are in direct contradiction to President 
Clinton’s policy on Counterterrorism promulgated 
in PDD–39. For a study that spent 
the better part of a year examining the Department’s 
S&S Program, I find this glaring 
omission of national policies to be alarming. 
Furthermore, it conveys a lack of understanding 
of the environment in which the 
Department operates that consequently diminishes 
the value of any findings or recommendations. 


Beyond the lack of depth of understanding 
of S&S Program requirements, however, I 
find the team failed to answer the only question 
that was posed to them. Specifically, 
whether current—DOE practices ensure that 
Special Nuclear Material (SNM) and Nuclear 
Weapons are adequately protected against 
Raidological Dispersal Device (RDD) and Improvised 
Nuclear Device (IND) threats. The 
short statements in the report that we need 
to change policies to require a higher standard 
of protection of SNM is gratuitous and 
provides no new information. The single 
graphic depicting greater quantities of explosives 
relative to SNM types was recognized 
long ago when the Atomic Energy 
Commission began this program, and again 
in 1988 when the graded safeguards table for 
SNM protection was established. I was disappointed 
to find that the validation of specific 
time lines of existing guidelines currently 
in the Secretary’s office awaiting 
completion of this study were completely 
avoided. 

Equally disappointing is the amount of effort 
and detail directed at the management 
and organizational issues that have been previously 
reported in numerous studies to include 
your Report to the Secretary of October 
1997 and the OSS Annual Report to the 
Secretary of January 1997. That the fragmented 
and divisive S&S structure is difficult 
to manage is well acknowledged and 
has been addressed repeatedly by DOE 
through reorganization and restructuring 
(e.g., SAI 26). There is no new information 
here, and the recommendations offered are 
confusing and inconsistent with one another. 
The solution as I understand it would further 
decentralize authority and responsibility to 
field sites thereby recreating the exact same 
environment as existed in Counterintelligence 
prior to the issuance of PDD 61. 

The report wades through a plethora of 
symptoms and offers the often repeated Laboratory 
rhetoric to limit Headquarters involvement 
and trust the contractor to carry 
out the government’s mission. Trust is not 
the question, execution is. As you know, cost 
is an essential element of risk management. 
The House of Representatives, Committee on 
Commerce, Oversight and Investigations 
Subcommittee challenged the DOE on the 
oversight of its contractor’s S&S programs 
throughout the 1980’s and early 1990’s. Senator 
Glenn asked the same questions in Sen


ate, Government Affairs Committee hearings. 
These facts are either unknown or ignored 
by the report team. I have yet to hear 
an allegation that DOE provides too much 
oversight of our contractors except from the 
Labs. Consequently, the suggestion that S&S 
should be funded through a site’s overhead 
budget is simply irresponsible. It is unclear 
to me how this would be the preferred method 
of funding. Such a move would further remove 
the Department’s control over this 
critical area. It is precisely this approach to 
safeguards and security as an ‘‘overhead’’ 
function that has led to many of our difficulties. 
It further underscores the lack of understanding 
of the mission essential element 
of safeguards and security as it relates to the 
Department’s overall mission. It is precisely 
this type of thinking that Admiral Crowe’s 
January 1999 report on the embassy bombings 
in Nairobi and Dar Es Salaam warns 
against. In his cover letter to Secretary 
Albright he expresses concern about the 
‘‘. . . relative low priority accorded security 
concerns throughout the US government—by 
the Department, other agencies in general, 
and on the part of many employees both in 
Washington and in the field.’’ Admiral Crowe 
goes on to advise that, ‘‘Saving lives and 
adequately addressing our security 
vulnerabilities on a sustained basis must be 
given higher priority by all those involved if 
we are to prevent such tragedies in the future.’’ 


Again, this lack of understanding leads to 
another distrubing assertion found in the report. 
Specifically that: ‘‘Safeguards and security 
is not a mission of DOE. Rather, safeguards 
and security is the responsibility of 
the DOE and contractor management at individual 
sites.’’ Such a statement is contrary 
to Department of Energy’s Strategic Plan of 
September 1997. Under the Strategic Plan’s 
National Security Strategic Goal is the objective 
to ‘‘ensure the vitality of DOE’s national 
security enterprise.’’ In support of 
this objective is a strategy to ‘‘ensure the 
protection of nuclear materials, sensitive information 
and facilities.’’ The fact that safeguards 
and security is found in the Strategic 
Plan as well as in the Secretary’s Performance 
Agreement with the President clearly 
raises its level of import to more than ‘‘a requirement 
of operation.’’ 

A final point worthy of note is the complete 
lack of understanding of the Department’s 
Design Basis Threat (DBT) process. 
The FBI, CIA, DOE, and the military services 
as well as the Nuclear Command and 
Control Staff have developed the existing 
Design Basis Threat over a number of years. 
It has been extensively reviewed and supporting 
studies issued by the DIA. Sandia, as 
well as our other Labs, have been asked to 
comment and participate in the development 
process. To describe the process and approach 
as flawed further underscores the superficial 
nature and questionable analysis 
found in the report. 

Perhaps most distressing is the lack of balance 
in its approach to the critical safeguards 
and security issues facing the Department. 
Rather, what is provided is a very parochial 
Defense Programs/Laboratory view 
that ignores not only the external drivers 
found in national level policies, but a total 
lack of understanding of specific procedures 
implementing these policies. Suffice to say, I 
am strongly opposed to the continued funding 
of Phases II and III of this effort. If 
Phase I is any indication of the quality of effort 
that might be expected, any further 
funding in this regard would be imprudent at 
best. Nonetheless, if the program is continued, 
I strongly suggest we manage the direction 
and quality of the next phase. 

As stated in this and other studies, successful 
resolution of the issues facing this 


H3844 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

Department relative to safeguards and security 
will require a concentrated effort on the 
part of all interested parties to include the 
Office of Defense Programs and the National 
Laboratories. What concerns me is that critical 
information concerning these issues is 
missing from this study. While such an omission 
may serve certain short term interests, 
it is not in the best interest of the Department 
or the nation. As an agency, we must 
endorse and implement two significant objectives 
concerning our protection strategy: 

(1) to protect our nation’s critical assets 
from those who would cause our nation 
harm, and (2) to protect the forces that secure 
our facilities from unnecessary vulnerability. 
To do any less is to undermine our 
national security responsibility, which is 
without question, a core mission of this Department. 
Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania. 
Madam Speaker, Mr. McCallum has 
been punished and has been placed on 
administrative leave and may lose his 
job. Guess who now sits on the corporate 
board of directors, being paid, 
overseeing the operation of that same 
facility? You guessed it, Madam Speaker. 
Hazel O’Leary. Hazel O’Leary now 
sits on the board of directors of the 
company that oversees the Rocky 
Flats facility that Mr. McCallum attempted 
to bring to the attention of 
the Congress was being protected in a 
woefully inadequate way. What is the 
response of this administration? To 
make him the scapegoat. 

It is a shame that he did not precede 
Notra Trulock, because as many of my 
colleagues know, it was Notra Trulock 
who began to blow the whistle on this 
administration for not paying attention 
in 1995 to security breaches that 
were occurring in the Department of 
Energy. But Notra Trulock lucked out. 
Because when the administration realized 
that what Notra Trulock was saying 
was true, they could not go after 
him. They gave Notra Trulock a $10,000 
bonus and now Notra Trulock is on national 
media programs and talks about 
how the administration has gotten its 
act together. 

It is a shame that Mr. McCallum did 
not precede Notra Trulock. Perhaps he 
would have gotten the $10,000 raise for 
being the whistle-blower. I can tell my 
colleagues, Madam Speaker, I am not 
going to sit by, and neither are a number 
of our colleagues, and see an innocent 
individual doing his job professionally 
be railroaded out of his position 
because this administration is embarrassed 
over the policies of their 
lack of control and decontrol in security 
measures involving our national 
laboratories, our Department of Energy 
facilities, our defense installations, 
and our military and other technology. 


The American people, Madam Speaker, 
can now read the statement of Mr. 
McCallum for themselves in tomorrow’s 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. The 
American people also now, Madam 

As a member of the Cox committee, I 
had the opportunity, over the 7 months 
that we worked aggressively on this 
project, to meet a number of senior and 
very capable intelligence officers and 
people within our intelligence establishment 
who are absolutely frustrated 
by what they see occurring in this administration 
on security issues. When 
we completed the Cox Commission report, 
I knew that the American people 
would not sit through and read, for the 
most part, a document that is almost a 
thousand pages in length. Very difficult 
to understand. 

So working with this group of people, 
and I would add for the record, who are 
today currently employees of this administration, 
so I cannot name them 
because they will be given the same 
treatment as Mr. McCallum has been 
given, these people have given me the 
information that I am providing to our 
colleagues and to the American people. 

This chart, Madam Speaker, for the 
first time, even though it looks like a 
hodgepodge of blocks, it can be pulled 
down on the Internet site, as I have 
said earlier, and this site is 
www.house.gov/curtweldon. This document 
gives the full pictorial representation 
of what we think China had 
planned to acquire western technology. 

Now, should we fault China for establishing 
this network? Probably, yes. 
But as many have said, what country 
does not spy or look to acquire technology 
from other countries? I would 
say we are the fools if we are stupid 
enough to allow China to access information 
that we should be controlling. 
And that is why I think the bulk of the 
responsibility here, Madam Speaker, 
lies with our own government. It was 
our government that failed the American 
people. 

This chart outlines the Central Military 
Commission of the People’s Liberation 
Army of China. The red boxes 
on this chart, which are too difficult to 
read without having the chart directly 
in front of you, are the various military 
commands and entities that are a 
part of the Central Military Commission 
that we know have been involved 
in engaging and in acquiring technology 
for China. Now, some of that acquisition 
has been legal, and there is 
nothing wrong with that. If they can 
buy it, how can we fault China for buying 
things we are legally willing to sell 
them or other countries will sell them? 
Some of it was not legal. By and large, 
though, much of what they got, they 
got through legal manipulation that 
we allowed to occur. 

The green boxes are those entities 
and banks and financial institutions 
here, in Hong Kong and Macao, as well 
as in Europe and Asia, that were designed 
to fund the acquisition of these 
technologies. Now, because they could 
not buy them directly, front companies 

to go to the arms of the People’s Liberation 
Army, because that is a desire 
they had for these specific technologies. 


A very elaborate scheme, but very 
simple. The financing through the entities 
to buy it go back to those entities 
that wanted to improve their missile 
systems, their nuclear programs, their 
computing capabilities, the design of 
their fighter aircraft, whatever the 
need might be. Again, if we are stupid 
enough to sell sensitive technology, 
how can we just blame China for buying 
it in the open market? This was the 
network. 

Now, we can see that what we did not 
look at in the Cox committee is what 
influenced these people to allow this 
technology to flow. Was it money, was 
it influence, was it a desire to increase 
economic activity for American companies? 
What was the motivation? We 
did not look at that in our China committee 
effort. We thought that should 
be a follow-on once we determined that 
there was security harm done to our 
country. That is why I prepared this 
document and the document I am going 
to follow up with. 

There are some connections here, 
Madam Speaker, that the American 
people need to look at, because some of 
these green boxes have attached to 
them campaign donations. Ted Sioeng, 
$200,000 to $400,000 to the Democratic 
National Committee. Or John Huang 
and James Riady, and all of these people 
who contributed millions of dollars 
to the Democratic National Committee. 
Or the temple that gave, 
through Maria Hsia, $50,000 at a fund-
raiser at a temple of impoverished religious 
leaders. Those connections need 
to be pursued. 

This information, Madam Speaker, 
has been investigated much more thoroughly 
by the FBI and the CIA than I 
have. Now, I have seen some of the 
classified versions of this, which are far 
more elaborate, which I obviously cannot 
show publicly. What I have shown 
here is an unclassified version of the 
connections between these agencies 
that have been publicly identified. And 
in response to a question by a Member 
of Congress at a public hearing, Louie 
Freeh, the director of the FBI, was 
asked: ‘‘How much of the information 
that we are aware about in public form, 
like this, compares to what you know 
in the FBI and the CIA about what happened 
in this entire series of transactions?’’ 
This was the response of FBI 
director Louie Freeh. ‘‘The public 
knows about 1 percent.’’ One percent of 
what went on that we have in the FBI 
and the CIA in terms of these connections. 
One percent, Madam Speaker, 
which means that 99 percent beyond 
this our intelligence and our law enforcement 
agencies know about but we 
do not. 

Speaker, can read information I pro-were established, and they are the blue 

b2215

vided last evening giving the big pic-boxes. We estimate there were hun


ture of the China connection. I want to dreds and hundreds of front companies Madam Speaker, the individual that 
review that again today in some more established by the Chinese to acquire Louis Freeh assigned to investigate 
detail. technologies, paid for by these entities, this, Charles LaBella, when he got 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3845 

through all of this evidence, well beyond 
what I have, wrote a memorandum 
to Louis Freeh that I have 
been told is almost 100 pages in length. 
That then resulted in Louis Freeh 
sending a memo to Janet Reno saying 
there is enough evidence here that you 
better impanel a special investigative 
effort, an independent counsel, because 
of what may be here. Janet Reno refused 
Louis Freeh and refused Mr. 
LaBella. That document has never been 
released to the Members of Congress 
nor the American public. In fact, I am 
not aware of any Member of Congress 
that has read that memo. But I can tell 
you, Madam Speaker, every Member of 
this body and every citizen in America 
should demand of this President one 
thing, and, that is, to release the 
LaBella memorandum. If this President 
and Vice President GORE have 
nothing to hide, if there are no connections, 
if there is no scandal, if there is 
no grand scheme, if there are no implicating 
factors, it can all go away very 
quickly by releasing the LaBella 
memorandum. That document has been 
subpoenaed by the Congress and it has 
been refused by Janet Reno to be 
turned over to us so that we have not 
had the opportunity to see what 
Charles LaBella said was there in that 
99 percent of information that we do 
not know about. What I have given to 
the American people is the unclassified 
information that they can read, and it 
in itself is revealing. In fact, Madam 
Speaker, you will notice there are lines 
connecting many of these boxes. The 
solid lines indicate direct working relationships 
between the PLA entities, 
the financing entities, and the front 
companies. So they are directly linked. 
The dotted lines, which are fewer in 
number, are those where there is a 
loosely connected relationship but not 
a direct relationship. Now, the logical 
question is, ‘‘Well, hold it, Congressman, 
you can’t just draw lines. You’ve 
got to provide some documentation.’’ 
Well, we did. Again working with existing 
employees of this government who 
have been frustrated by what they have 
seen occurring have helped me identify 
26 documents that are available on the 
public record that are not classified, 
that include newspaper articles, research 
documents, business reports, 
company annual reports where you can 
connect the lines. Each of the numbers 
on this chart which corresponds with a 
line gives you a specific document that 
you can read which I have outlined and 
identified in the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD yesterday which you can get 
off of my web site which gives you the 
public information that supports the 
linkage between these various entities. 
It is public information. Now, that is 
not all. And the media when I brought 
this out last week said, ‘‘Well, wait a 
minute, you haven’t established a direct 
relationship.’’ I cannot show classified 
information here. That is a violation 
of our Federal laws. I have given 
unclassified documentation which 
without a doubt shows the connections 

between the major players in the effort 
to allow China to acquire technology 
that they have been wanting to buy. 

Now, the administration would have 
us believe that this is really all concocted 
by China and that we should 
make China the evil empire. I am not 
doing that, Madam Speaker. I cannot 
blame China if decisions made by this 
administration allowed technology to 
flow legally, and that is what occurred 
in most cases. The influence that was 
peddled by these financial people ended 
up lowering the controls over our regulation 
of technology being sold abroad. 
The influence exercised by these people 
and their money influenced key decisionmakers 
in this administration. In 
my opinion, that lies in terms of fault 
at the feet of this administration itself. 
And as much as we would like to totally 
blame China, I blame our own 
government. 

Now, are there instances where China 
went too far? Absolutely. And I would 
say this again on the record. If we can 
document that there is direct espionage 
that took place at our labs or at 
other facilities, we should use the full 
force of our law to prosecute those people 
who in fact spied on America, much 
like we have done in the past. But we 
cannot blame a country if we willingly 
sold them the bulk of this technology 
because of influence they were able to 
get by putting some money around or 
by currying favor with certain people. 

Let me go to the second chart, 
Madam Speaker. The second chart, 
which was also prepared with the help 
of existing employees that work for 
this government who are in sensitive 
positions, gives the time line, the time 
line of liberalized and decontrolled 
technologies to the People’s Republic 
of China. But I want you to know, it 
was not just China that benefited from 
these policies. Many of these policy decisions 
benefited a number of countries 
who were able to legally buy our technology. 


Now, I am not against our companies 
selling technology abroad. In fact, I am 
an advocate of our companies being 
able to sell and compete in the world 
marketplace. But, Madam Speaker, 
that is not what occurred here. What 
occurred here was the elimination in a 
wholesale way of a legitimate process 
that was in place under previous administrations 
to monitor technology 
and to do it with our allies. As I mentioned 
last night, the reason I started 
this chart in 1993 was not because that 
is when Bill Clinton took office, it was 
because in 1993 this President ended a 
process called COCOM. COCOM was an 
organized group of our allied nations 
and Japan that met on a regular basis 
to monitor sensitive technology that 
was produced in any one of the allied 
countries. There was an agreement 
that none of those COCOM nations 
would sell sensitive technology to 
countries that we thought might use it 
against us, so that none of our companies 
were hurt because all the countries 
that have this technology were 

working together so that no one could 
benefit. 

It was this administration in 1993 
that unilaterally decided to end 
COCOM, did away with it. Without 
even consulting with our allies, we 
said, ‘‘We’re doing away with this process.’’ 
From 1993 on, the floodgates 
opened. Because now you had companies 
in Great Britain and France and 
Japan who said, ‘‘Wait a minute, 
there’s no more COCOM, we’re not 
going to let the U.S. sell this technology 
abroad, we’re going to sell competing 
technology.’’ So now you had a 
mad scramble, you had American companies 
trying to keep up with German, 
French, Italian, British and Japanese 
firms who now saw American companies 
selling technologies that under 
COCOM they could not sell. So the European 
countries and Japan said, ‘‘Wait 
a minute, we’re going to sell that technology 
as well,’’ and you had a mad 
scramble to sell technology in a totally 
uncontrolled fashion. That began in 
1993 under this administration. The 
Commerce Department will tell you it 
was good for business. Some business 
leaders will tell you it was good for 
business. We on the Cox Committee 
will tell you it was bad for America. 
Other allied nations will tell you it was 
bad for international security. Proliferation 
has never been worse than it 
has been for the past 6 years. Iran, 
Iraq, Syria, Libya, North Korea, India, 
Pakistan, all have cutting-edge technologies 
that up until 1993 were tightly 
controlled by COCOM, all of that ended 
by this administration. That is the 
focus of the Cox report. 

The chronology of this chart takes 
each technology separately: warhead 
design, machine tools, low observable 
technologies, telecommunications, propulsion 
systems, high-powered computers, 
encryption technology, space 
launch technology, and analyses when 
key decisions were made by this administration 
and gives you the month 
and the date that allowed technologies 
to flow that up until these dates were 
controlled. And you can see by the 
number of red dots here that during 
this time frame, the floodgates opened. 
We said, ‘‘We’ll sell anything and everything 
and we won’t consult with our 
allies.’’ So you have had a mad competition 
among companies in countries 
that up until 1993 worked together to 
make sure that no one could unfairly 
have a larger share of the market with 
sensitive technologies. After 1993, the 
demise of COCOM, the floodgates 
opened. Everything and anything was 
for sale. Our companies got their way, 
they got to sell whatever they wanted, 
foreign countries and companies the 
same thing, and China took advantage 
of it. 

Now, there are some interesting 
other factors about this chart, Madam 
Speaker. You will notice a gray area in 
the center of this chart, starting in 
1995, ending in 1997. Why did I make 
that gray? Because in 1995, we have 
been told by Bill Richardson that this 


H3846 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

administration found out that China 
was acquiring our most sensitive technology. 
And if you listened to Secretary 
Richardson, this is what he said: 
‘‘Boy, when we found that out, we took 
aggressive action. We said, ‘We’re not 
going to let China steal our technology.’’’ 


Well, that is what he said. The color 
in the blue, Madam Speaker, and all 
the red dots you see here, just under 
Space Launch alone, 15 separate actions 
after this administration knew 
that China had stolen our design technologies 
that they took in 3 years to 
give more technology to countries like 
China. And that is across the board, 
Madam Speaker. So the blue indicates 
where this administration knew that 
China was trying to acquire this technology 
and doing it illegally, opened 
the floodgates even further for more 
technology. 

There is one more factor here, 
Madam Speaker. All of us in America 
know when the elections were held. It 
is kind of interesting when you look at 
this chart from a distance that the 
bulk of the clustering of these dots are 
in and around the time frame of 1996. I 
wonder what was happening in that 
year, Madam Speaker? Might that have 
been the year when the presidential 
elections were being held? Could there 
be some coincidence that many of 
these key decisions in terms of policy 
changes were being done because elections 
were being held and maybe people 
were interested and from the standpoint 
of corporate America in having 
policymakers make determinations to 
allow more products to be sold overseas, 
could that be a reason? That is 
what the LaBella memorandum referred 
to, Madam Speaker, that this 
country needs to see for itself, the reasons 
why these decisions were made. 
Why did we change our policy so much? 
Why did we allow access? Why did we 
totally decontrol technologies in a way 
that was not being aware and cognizant 
of our own security concerns? 

But it goes beyond these issues, 
Madam Speaker. Let us move down to 
this next item here. PRC Nationals to 

U.S. High Tech Companies. It was in 
1994, in fact it was in March, that Chinese 
nationals to our U.S. labs and our 
U.S. high tech companies was allowed. 
The COMEX review of foreign nationals 
was abandoned, by this administration. 
That was in 1994. I am sure that was 
done because the companies wanted 
less hassle of foreign nationals going 
into our high tech companies. And over 
here in 1997, we revised our deemed exports 
policy to allow foreign nationals 
to work at U.S. high tech companies. 
Now, that was in 1997. These were decisions 
made that allowed more Chinese 
nationals to work in our high tech 
companies in America. And how about 
the high tech furnace approval for 
weapons of mass destruction? That approval 
was given in 1998, Madam 
Speaker, a technology that gives China 
capability for the production of weapons 
of mass destruction. Even though 
this administration said when they 
found out about the theft of nuclear secrets, 
they took aggressive action to 
control it. 

Let us go down further, Madam 
Speaker. During this same period of 
time, China and Russia were both violating 
international arms control 
agreements. The Missile Technology 
Control Regime, the control of exports. 
We caught them on a number of occasions. 
In fact, in last night’s special 
order, and again the American people 
can read this through my web site or 
get a copy of it through the CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD last evening—and I did 
not do the work, the Congressional Research 
did the work—we documented 
the arms control violations that we 
caught Russia and China involved in 
over 6-year time period. Here is that 
chronology as documented by the Congressional 
Research Service. 

b2230 
The dates, the type of transfer, who 
the transfer went to are all documented. 
This was not done by some 
partisan group; it was done by the Congressional 
Research Service, a part of 
the Library of Congress. 
These violations of arms control 
agreements by China, were they sent 
technology? Where did they send the 
technology to? Let us look at the 
chart. 
Well, they sent technology to Pakistan, 
Iran; Iran? North Korea. Syria. 
They sent solid propellant production 
technology to Libya, Iran, Egypt. They 
sent missile accelerometers and gyroscopes 
to Iran, Syria, Libya, Egypt and 
Pakistan. They sent antiship missiles 
to Iran. They sent more material to 
Pakistan; chemical weapons technology 
to Iran again. 
All of these transfers done by China. 
What was the response of this administration? 
Nothing. 
On, yes, two times out of about 17 or 
21, I forget which it is, they did impose 
temporary sanctions; but they eventually 
waived them. 
So not only are we getting Chinese 
access in a way they never had access 
before, not only were we helping to expedite 
and grease the skids for the financing 
of the purchase of technologies, 
but we were ignoring violations 
of arms control agreements that 
China was required to abide by. We did 
not call them on these violations. 
And at the bottom of the chart, 
Madam Speaker, even though I could 
not complete it, I was only able to do 
this up through 1996, I list a number of 
times that the major players in the 
Chinese financing scams visit at the 
White House, not visited Members of 
Congress, but were in private visits in 
the White House itself. 
In the case of John Huang, in the one 
year of 1993 alone, we know of 12 times 
he was in the White House. In 1994, 
twice; in 1995, let us see, one, two, 
three times; or 1994, three times; 1995, 
three times. These are people that are 
involved in that elaborate scheme of 

organizations and financing entities 
that were given direct access to our 
White House, to our top policy maker 
to our commander in chief, to our key 
leaders who were then being pressured 
to relax our policies relative to technology 
being sold abroad. 

Madam Speaker, these two charts 
represent the pictorial view of the Cox 
committee report. They represent what 
needs to be explored further. 

I am not here as a partisan, Madam 
Speaker. Both times I ran for mayor of 
my hometown I was the nominee of the 
Republican Party and the Democrat 
Party both times I ran. I work with 
many Democrats in this body and frequently 
get up on the floor of this 
House and praise our Democrat colleagues 
for their leadership role on defense 
and security issues. I have joined 
with members of the Democrats on a 
number of key issues involving social 
policy, family medical leave, environmental 
policies, protection for our 
workers, and I have supported the 
President and the administration in 
some of those issues which my party 
has not been supportive of. But, 
Madam Speaker, when it comes to national 
security, we have a big problem 
here. This needs to be looked at beyond 
the Cox committee. 

To me, I know why in my mind Janet 
Reno turned down the recommendation 
of Louis Freeh based on the memos 
sent by Charles LaBella to appoint an 
independent counsel. I am convinced, 
Madam Speaker, the evidence is there. 
I am convinced that 99 percent that we 
have been told we have not seen yet 
has far more than many people in this 
country want to become public. 

I am also convinced, Madam Speaker, 
that we had better pay attention here. 
This is not some story about a dress, 
this is not some intern in the White 
House. This is not some story about a 
travel office. This is not even about Republicans 
or Democrats. Madam 
Speaker, this is about the very core of 
what our country is about. No one, no 
party official in either party, no elected 
leader, has the right to allow a 
wholesale technology faucet to open 
that we are going to have to pay the 
price for. 

Now, if I am overreaching, Madam 
Speaker, I do not think I am because, 
a member of the Cox committee having 
sat through as many of those meetings 
as any one of my colleagues, with perhaps 
the exception of Chairman Cox 
himself, I know what evidence the FBI 
and the CIA has, and I have only seen 
a small fraction of what is not on this 
chart. I know there is much more. 

If there is nothing there, Madam 
Speaker, the President can clear this 
entire issue up in a heartbeat. All he 
has to do is release the entire unabridged 
version of the Charles LaBella 
memo to Louis Freeh. If there is nothing 
to hide, if there is nothing to these 
connections, if there is no story, I will 
be happy. 

I do not think that is the case, 
Madam Speaker. I think the reason 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3847 

why Janet Reno did not accept Louis 
Freeh’s recommendation, based on 
LaBella’s memo, is because she knew 
what is there. That document that 
LaBella prepared, which I understand 
is quite voluminous, goes into extensive 
detail and actually points to individual 
people. 

Madam Speaker, this country, this 
democracy, needs the American people 
and its elected officials to see the overview 
of the evidence that LaBella gave 
to Freeh that now remains closed and 
confidential. If there is nothing there, 
then there is no problem with the 
memo; if there is no evidence, if there 
is no story, if there is no substance, the 
whole thing will go away, and the 
China story will end, and we will make 
the necessary corrections to our own 
policies. 

Madam Speaker, I would encourage 
every one of our colleagues and every 
constituent in every district of a Member 
of this body and the other body to 
demand that this administration do 
one thing: release the full text, the uncensored 
text, of the Charles LaBella 
memorandum to Louis Freeh. Let us 
see what evidence they thought may be 
there in terms of a greater scheme for 
the Chinese to acquire technology by 
facilitating and greasing the skids of 
certain key people and certain key 
agencies that ended up with America’s 
security being harmed. That was the 
unanimous vote of all nine members of 
the Cox committee, that America’s national 
security has been harmed by the 
actions that we investigated in the Cox 
committee work. 

We cannot just stop with this document, 
and we cannot rely on the mainstream 
media because with the exception 
of a few people like those that I 
have mentioned and some others, the 
mainstream media is too stinking lazy 
to go through the investigative details 
necessary to uncover what is here. We 
need to have this administration come 
clean, give us the uncensored text of 
what Charles LaBella said to Louis 
Freeh which only went to Janet Reno. 
When that happens, we will then know 
the true extent of the China connection 
and its impact with this administration. 


f 


ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. 
BIGGERT). The Chair will remind Members 
to refrain from making personal 
references towards the President. 

f 


INTRODUCTION OF LEGISLATION 
TO DENY COMMUNIST CHINA 
NORMAL TRADE RELATIONS 
STATUS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
6, 1999, the gentleman from California 
(Mr. ROHRABACHER) is recognized 
for 60 minutes. 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, 
first of all, I would like to commend 

my colleague, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. WELDON). We have 
worked together over these last 10 
years while I have been a Member of 
Congress on many, many occasions, 
and I find Congressman WELDON to be a 
patriot, a man of integrity, a man of 
courage, and I think when all of this is 
said and done, when we find out the 
jeopardy that our country has been put 
in and take the measures that are necessary 
to correct this situation and to 
make our country safe again, the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
WELDON) will be on the list of real 
American heroes that came about to 
save the day, and I am just proud to 
serve with him. 

Madam Speaker, tonight it is fortuitous 
that I will be speaking after the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
WELDON) because my remarks are in 
parallel with what Mr. WELDON has 
been talking about. It goes into a 
slightly different subject. Tonight I 
will be talking about Most Favored Nation 
status and our economic, as well 
as military and diplomatic, relations 
with China. But of course everything 
that Mr. WELDON has said today amplifies 
the need that I will be demonstrating 
for us to reexamine American 
policy towards Communist China. 

In fact, let me state right at the beginning 
that when it comes to Communist 
China, we have been treating a 
hostile power, the world’s worst human 
rights abuser, as a strategic partner, 
that is what this administration has 
insisted on us calling Communist 
China, and I believe that Americans 
will pay a woeful price for this irrational, 
amoral and greed-driven policy 
if we do not change it, and that is what 
we need to do to change that policy 
that has been in place to some degree 
or another for 2 decades, but especially 
in these last 6 years. 

Yesterday I introduced legislation to 
do just that, to change that policy. It 
is a bill of disapproval of extending so-
called ‘‘normal trade relations,’’ which 
was previously known as Most Favored 
Nation status, with Communist China. 
So what my proposal is is that we deny 
Communist China normal trade relations 
status with the United States, 
formerly called Most Favored Nation 
status. 

The time, Madam Speaker, is long 
since past when the United States 
should reexamine its fundamental policies 
toward the Communist dictatorship 
that now rules the mainland of 
China. Our commercial policies, as well 
as our diplomatic and military policies, 
for the past decade have worked 
against the interests of our own people 
and have not, as we had hoped, increased 
the level of freedom enjoyed by 
the Chinese people. In fact, some of the 
initial progress that we saw in China 
has now gone in the opposite direction, 
especially since the end of the Reagan 
administration and the tragic national 
reversal in China in 1989 at Tiananmen 
Square when they had the massacre at 
Tiananmen Square. 

The gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
ARMEY), one of our Republican leaders 
here in the House, defines ‘‘insanity’’ 
as doing more of the same, but expecting 
the results to be different. Well, for 
10 years the cause of freedom in China 
has been in decline. Things are getting 
worse. So much for the engagement 
theory, the strategy of engagement, 
and what we hear from those people advocating 
normal trade relations and to 
continuing our relations with China is 
doing more of the same, but expecting 
that China is going to be different, that 
there will be different results now. 

Well, that makes no sense. It is the 
unreasonable and perhaps irrational 
optimism of some people to assume 
that continuing our fundamental policies 
toward China will bring about different 
results than the retrogression 
that we have seen in the past decade. 

In the past 10 years, the genocide, for 
example, has continued in Tibet. The 
Chinese democracy movement has been 
wiped out, and there has been increasing 
belligerence by the clique that runs 
China. The Beijing regime is modernizing 
and expanding its military power 
while threatening the United States 
and bullying its neighbors, especially 
in Taiwan and the Philippines. 

Big business falsely claims that 
China is a country that is liberalizing 
through commercial engagement. 
There is no evidence for that claim. So 
every time you hear it: Well, we have 
got to engage them, that is what will 
make them better; just be aware that 
there is every evidence to show just the 
opposite. In fact, the empirical evidence 
shows that China is going in the 
opposite direction, that engagement is 
not making things better, is not causing 
a freer China, but instead for the 
last 10 years has resulted in more repression, 
more militarization. 

Furthermore, the trade relationship 
is working against the people of the 
United States. So here we are in an 
economic engagement that is not helping 
us bring about a freer China, thus, 
less belligerent, thus a China that will 
be more peaceful. It is not doing that, 
but it is also not even helping us economically. 


b2245 

The Chinese are using their $60 billion 
annual trade surplus with us to 
modernize their Armed Forces, including 
building nuclear missiles aimed at 
the United States, and they are continuing 
to proliferate weapons of mass 
destruction. For example, Communist 
China is reported to be the power behind 
North Korea’s space program. Get 
into that. 

North Korea has a space program. 
This is a country that has people who 
are starving by the thousands, that we 
are giving millions of dollars worth of 
food aid to, but they have a space program? 
You got it. Communist China is 
helping the North Korean regime with 
a so-called space program. In other 
words, they are helping them build 


H3848 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

rockets that, when tested, end up flying 
right over Japan and land close to 
Alaska. 

North Korea, of course, is not the 
only looney country Communist China 
is helping along with deadly weapons 
technology. You have got Iran, Libya, 
Pakistan, all have benefitted from Beijing’s 
helping hand. Of course, some of 
the technology now being handed over 
is technology based on things that they 
have stolen, on ideas and engineering 
techniques that they have stolen from 
the United States of America. 

On April 15 the Washington Post 
cited a Pentagon study that verified 
China is continuing to ship weapons of 
mass destruction technology to the 
Middle East and South Asia, despite repeated 
promises to end such activity. 

A separate U.S. intelligence report 
found that China has recently provided 
North Korea with specialty steel used 
in the building of missile frames. However, 
the State Department officials, 
including Secretary of State Madeleine 
Albright, have repeatedly avoided answering 
questions before the House 
Committee on International Relations 
hearings when asked about China’s ongoing 
proliferation activities. 

When Secretary Albright was in 
China last summer with the President, 
China conducted its first successful 
test of a motor for its new DF–31 ballistic 
missile that can strike the 
United States from the Chinese mainland. 
So here was the President of the 
United States, so eloquent in his presentation, 
there he was representing us, 
along with Secretary of State Albright, 
supposedly representing our interests. 
They were aware that this new missile 
engine was being tested, a missile engine 
that could threaten the people of 
the United States. They were also 
aware that weapons technology had 
been stolen from the United States 
that would permit Communist China to 
build warheads, nuclear warheads, that 
would be on the top of those new rockets, 
and these rockets could strike the 
United States. 

Yet there was no record of the Secretary 
of State or President Clinton 
raising this issue with their Chinese 
hosts. Instead, they continued on that 
visit to praise the increasingly, I would 
say increasingly brazen communist 
leaders, as being strategic partners, 
strategic partners, and the type of people 
that we can do business with. 

This is very sad. It is more than sad, 
it is frightening. The recent Pentagon 
report describes how Chinese Government 
owned companies are selling 
weapons technology and knowhow and 
providing training to countries such as 
Iran and Pakistan. An American military 
official familiar with the report 
said that the Chinese are skirting nonproliferation 
treaties with the United 
States. 

So they have agreed not to proliferate. 
This was the President’s great 
accomplishment, supposedly, with 
Communist China. We were going to 
give them all sorts of things in trade 

benefits so they would not proliferate, 
yet we know now they are proliferating 
and developing weapons of their own 
and giving them to these hostile and 
somewhat crazy states, states that are 
lacking in positive and responsible 
leadership. But Communist China is 
shipping them these weapons of mass 
destruction technology anyway, even 
though they have made these agreements. 


The Chinese are shipping these rogue 
nations missile components, some of 
which, of course, are American products 
as well as American knowhow, and 
they are shipping the components rather 
than shipping the whole missile. 
That way they are saying they are not 
really proliferating missiles to these 
other countries. 

But they are. They are proliferating 
on a routine basis, of course, without 
technically breaking the agreements 
with the United States, by just sending 
the parts to the missile. This nefarious 
behavior could be, we might call it the 
Mandarin version of a famous Arkansas 
homily, ‘‘smoke, but don’t inhale.’’ 

After reading the Cox report, one is 
struck by the mind-boggling loss of our 
country’s most deadly secrets. When 
you hear the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. WELDON) explain the magnitude 
of the loss that we have seen, it 
takes your breath away and makes you 
wonder how our children will live, what 
type of lives they will live, whether or 
not America could be incinerated by a 
Chinese dictatorship that feels it can 
afford to lose hundreds of millions of 
people if it means wiping out its 
enemy, 100 or 200 million Americans. 

The theft of U.S. nuclear secrets by 
Communist China is surpassed only by 
the complete abandonment of security 
precautions at our Department of Energy 
under the Clinton Administration, 
as well as a brazen attempt by the 
Clinton Administration to keep the 
knowledge of this catastrophic transfer 
of weapons technology, to keep the 
news of this from the Congress and the 
American people. 

On May 30, the New York Times reported 
the utter cynicism and duplicity 
of the Clinton administration concerning 
our nuclear weapons programs. 
After the Cox committee released its 
report on Chinese espionage at our nuclear 
labs, Bill Clinton called protecting 
atomic secrets ‘‘a solemn obligation.’’ 
That is what President Clinton 
called it. 

However, in private, administration 
officials told reporters, and this is reported 
by the New York Times, that 
openness, a euphemism for giving away 
our nuclear secrets, has its advantages, 
despite the risks, and has been a potent 
force for international good. 

Hazel O’Leary, who the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. WELDON) has 
also quoted and talked about some of 
her policies, in fact Mr. WELDON was 
right on target and this will even add 
to what Mr. WELDON was saying, Hazel 
O’Leary, President Clinton’s Secretary 
of Energy from 1993 to 1997, was the 

grand poobah of nuclear openness, as 
we have seen by what Mr. WELDON told 
us this evening. In fact, she massively 
declassified secrets and put them on 
the Energy Department’s web site, including 
the diagrams of some advanced 
nuclear weapons which we saw tonight 
in Mr. WELDON’S presentation. 

When asked about that recently, Mrs. 
O’Leary said, ‘‘we pulled off an impossible 
feat,’’ and she recently boasted 
this while defending her action. She 
went on, ‘‘To say that all of our efforts 
were negative is not to understand the 
benefits, not to see what we did in 
terms of building international trust.’’ 

See, the idea is if everybody had all 
this information, information about 
deadly weapons technology that we had 
spent hundreds of billions of dollars developing, 
that if everyone had it, well 
then, it might be a more peaceful 
world. This is worse than the Rosen-
bergs. This is looney tunes. This is 
someone who has a fanatical anti-
American altitude in a position to 
hand over to our worst enemies secrets 
that put our young people and our 
country in jeopardy. 

Needless to say, most defense experts 
obviously disagree with Mrs. O’Leary’s 
bizarre, and I would say strange, logic. 
It takes more than a postgraduate degree 
from an ivy league school to have 
logic like this. However, O’Leary could 
not have undertaken this massive giveaway 
of a decade of brilliant and costly 
weapons research that permitted the 
United States to be the arsenal of democracy, 
she could not have done this 
without at least the tacit support of 
the Commander in Chief. 

The New York Times surmised that 
the new age defense policy emanating 
from the White House explains why 
Mrs. O’Leary did this. It explains also 
the administration’s slow response 
when confronted with very real evidence 
of Chinese spying and the loss of 
blueprints for frighteningly powerful 
weapons. 

In 1993, O’Leary told a news conference 
at the start of the openness 
process, ‘‘The United States must 
stand as a leader. We are declassifying 
the largest amount of information in 
the history of our department.’’ 
O’Leary also did away with a counterintelligence 
effort, security badges and 
effective security clearances. She 
eliminated all of these, as Mr. Weldon 
alluded to a few moments ago. 

Remember the promise to reinvent 
government? Remember that promise? 
Well, this is it. This administration reinvented 
our government policy towards 
its labs. You might say they 
turned our nuclear labs into a high-
tech K-Mart, I guess in Arkansas you 
might say Wal-Mart, in terms of the 
giving away or making available to 
international missile technicians and 
spies information that we invested billions 
of dollars to develop. 

This was not a going-out-of-business 
sale on the part of the United States 
Government; this was a going-out-ofsanity 
sale on the part of the United 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3849 

States Government. Those who benefitted 
the most were the minions of the 
People’s Republic of China, the Communist 
Chinese, our erstwhile constructive 
strategic partners. 

Madam Speaker, I yield to my friend 
from Arizona. 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Madam Speaker, I 
want to thank my friend from California 
and our colleague from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. WELDON) who preceded us in 
the well of the House. If there have 
been two among the 435 honored to 
serve in this chamber, it has been the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania and the 
gentleman from California who, together, 
have sounded the clarion call to 
the extent of the threat which affects 
our national security. 

Madam Speaker, I was honored earlier 
today to bring to this floor a measure 
that deals with the educational security 
of rural America, and it is worth 
noting that there was not a single 
member of this House present who 
voted against the legislation for the 
New Education Land Grant Act. 

Madam Speaker, I said at that time, 
this is an issue that affects us not as 
Republicans or as Democrats, but as 
Americans. Madam Speaker, the full 
House assembled worked its will in bipartisan 
fashion. 

How sad it is, Madam Speaker, to see 
what transpires in this town via smoke 
and mirrors and spin, when we are 
dealing with a problem that threatens 
the security of every American; to read 
in the Little Rock Democrat Gazette 
from one columnist that this is some 
form of red scare, to have those hurl 
verbal brickbats at a clear and present 
danger to the United States. 

As my colleague from California no 
doubt experienced during the district 
work period, Madam Speaker, I heard 
from countless constituents, from 
those who had borne the brunt of battle, 
from those who had worn the uniform 
of our country in peacetime and 
in war, from those who were concerned 
citizens, asking, what is this Chinese 
connection? What is this notion of a 
strategic partnership that would involve 
illegal political donations to 
those who would occupy our highest offices 
in the executive branch, what 
would possess business leaders to so 
jeopardize American security to grant 
technological prowess to the Communist 
China, and why would there be 
those within the administration who 
would turn a deaf ear and a blind eye 
to the theft of our most precious secrets? 


b2300 
As my colleague from California 
pointed out, why would there be cabinet 
officials who had a curious notion 
of utopia who would open our national 
labs, expose our national secrets, create 
an environment in which an employee 
at Los Alamos could put on an 
unsecured computer our legacy codes, 
the width and breadth of American nuclear 
knowledge and technological 
knowhow to fall into the hands of any 

foreign power, but especially the Communist 
Chinese? 

And how, Madam Speaker, could we 
have an Attorney General, given the 
number of wiretaps for national security 
that were authorized, fail to authorize 
the two wiretaps involving one 
Wen Ho Lee, the accused assailant who 
would surrender our nuclear secrets to 
the Communist Chinese? 

Again, Madam Speaker, as my colleague, 
the gentleman from California, 
as our friend, the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania, so eloquently pointed 
out, this is not a matter of being Republican 
or Democrat, this is not a 
matter of preening and posturing for 
the latest spin cycle. 

Indeed, Madam Speaker, this goes to 
the core of our national security and 
the security of every American family 
and our place in the world, and those 
who would oppose us and use our technology 
against us. That is what we deal 
with. 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, 
perhaps the most disturbing part of 
this whole controversy is the response 
that we have had from people who are 
trying to protect the administration 
from being held accountable for certain 
things dealing with this controversy. 

For example, I heard in a committee 
hearing, those of us who were complaining 
about this were accused of 
vulgar partisanship, as if in bringing 
this up we were doing this out of partisan 
concerns. 

I certainly explained at that point 
that the only thing vulgar and the only 
vulgar partisanship going on was that 
certain people on the other side felt 
compelled to have to try to block those 
of us who were trying to investigate 
this, trying to hold those who have 
committed this sin against the American 
people accountable, claiming that 
we were being partisan in doing so. 

Even today we hear people who are 
apologists for this, and this has to be 
labeled a national security catastrophe 
of a magnitude that we have yet to experience. 
Even the Rosenberg catastrophe, 
where Josef Stalin got his 
hands on the first nuclear weapon, that 
was horrible, that was a bad thing. 
That affected the entire Cold War. It 
probably led to the war in Korea. But 
that probably was not as bad for our 
long-term national security as what 
has happened here. 

But we are told even now by these 
people who are trying to say that, well, 
it is not really that bad, and how many 
times will we hear someone say, we 
spy, our allies spy, everybody spies, so 
how can we blame China? Yes, in a 
way, how can we blame China? We have 
to blame the incompetence or culpability 
of people in our government to 
let this happen. 

But let me point out, it is not the 
same when Great Britain or Belgium or 
Italy or a democratic country spies on 
us. If Great Britain were to receive 
these benefits of all of this research 
that we have had into these terrible 
weapons systems, no one would worry. 

It would not be a big problem. We 
would not like it, but it is a democratic 
country. Great Britain is not aiming 
its weapons at the United States. We 
cannot perceive and conceive of a situation 
where they will. 

But what we are talking about when 
someone says that, well, we spy, they 
spy, everybody spies, what they are 
talking about is a moral equivalency 
argument. This is the same moral 
equivalency argument that says there 
is nothing, no difference between a democracy 
and a vicious dictatorship. 

What this leads to is this, this leads 
to the type of actions that were taken 
by Mrs. O’Leary there at the beginning 
of the administration and probably 
consistent with the President’s world 
theory that you can just shovel all this 
information out so every country can 
have it, regardless if they are a dictatorship 
or a democracy, and it will not 
make any difference. 

It is more likely, and this is the motive 
here if you have a moral equivalency 
argument, we can then let all of 
this information out and we can build 
a world authority, and perhaps that 
was the goal. 

Two things we should know about, 
moral equivalency and globalism. 
Moral equivalency and globalism, that 
is a formula for tyranny. It is a formula 
for the destruction of the United 
States of America. There is nothing 
morally equivalent about a democratic 
country that protects the rights of its 
people, permits people to worship as 
they see fit. And yes, we are not perfect, 
but we have freedom of speech, 
and where we have imperfections, we 
can work together and we can try to 
make things better. But when there is 
a corrupt official, those who complain 
are not shot, like they are in Communist 
China. They are not thrown 
into a Lao Gai prison system. 

There is no moral equivalency between 
dictatorship and a democratic 
government, especially the United 
States of America. It is this leftist concept 
that probably led Ms. O’Leary, 
Secretary O’Leary, to give this information 
out. Now it is being used right 
in front of our eyes to say, well, spies 
here, spies there, everybody spies. That 
is a fallacious argument. 

A country that is a dictatorship, unlike 
a country that is a democracy, 
cannot be a trusted partner of the 
United States and a friend of the 
United States. If we do so, if we put our 
faith in dictators and gangsters and 
people who commit these types of heinous 
abuses against their people, we 
will pay an awful price. We are paying 
that price today. 

Our administration continues to call 
it a strategic partner. I yield to the 
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
HAYWORTH), and then I will give some 
reasons why China cannot be a strategic 
partner of the United States. 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Madam Speaker, I 
would thank my colleague from California, 
who eloquently establishes the 
dynamic and the challenge which we 


H3850 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

confront as a Nation. Thank God that 
we are a constitutional republic with 
rights guaranteed by the first amendment. 


To those who would abridge those 
rights, to those who would turn a jaundiced 
eye to the abuses of others 
abroad, to those who would dare describe 
repressions, totalitarian regimes 
as strategic partners, it is time for a 
little straight talk. 

I know my colleague is familiar with 
the work of Bill Gertz, the Washington 
Times national security reporter who 
has authored a comprehensive evaluation 
of the extent to which our secrets 
have been stolen and leaked to hostile 
Nations. The name of the book is entitled 
‘‘Betrayal.’’ 

I would say not only does Communist 
China present a problem, but North 
Korea, Pakistan, Iraq, Iran, those nations 
with whom the Communist Chinese 
have shared the nuclear technology 
reaffirms the fact that even in 
this alleged post-Cold War era, the 
world remains a dangerous place. 

One other note I would point out to 
my colleague from California, Madam 
Speaker. When we assemble here in 
early January of the odd-numbered 
year every 2 years to take our oath of 
office, we take our oath of office to the 
Constitution of the United States. We 
heard the President and Vice President 
take a similar oath, to uphold and defend 
the Constitution of the United 
States; not the U.N. charter, not the 
NATO charter, not a utopian notion of 
a strategic partnership, but our allegiance 
is to our Constitution, to our 
sovereignty and to our legitimate national 
interest. 

How tragic it is that it appears those 
national security interests have been 
bartered away for campaign contributions, 
or naively given away for global 
considerations. 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. Madam Speaker, 
I would like to go through a few 
reasons of why China is not our strategic 
partner. People have to understand, 
there is a lot of rhetoric about 
China being the worst human rights 
abuser. People do not understand the 
specifics of what we are talking about. 

What we have here is the world’s 
largest dictatorship. According to Amnesty 
International, there are thousands 
of political prisoners who remain 
even today in the Lao Gai forced labor 
camps, which are a prison system 
where you have basically slave labor. 
Sometimes these are just, as we say, 
thousands of political prisoners who 
are making some of these low-cost 
items, and this suit did not come from 
China. 

b2310 

But perhaps the suit worn by someone 
who is reading this CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD or listening tonight is made in 
China. One must remember that that 
suit might have been made by someone 
who simply was a religious believer 
who was thrown into a prison system 
and forced for decades to work as a 

slave laborer because of his or her 
faith. 

There are at least 2,000 persons in 
prison for so-called 
counterrevolutionary crimes. Some 200 
Tiananmen Square protesters, after 10 
years, are still in prison for peacefully 
participating in pro democracy protests. 


During the past 2 months, the Chinese 
Communist government has 
issued new laws, this is just the last 2 
months, that strengthen the Communist 
party and further restrict freedom 
of speech and the formation of political 
parties. 

Genocide continues in Tibet where 
hundreds of thousands have perished 
since the invasion of 1950. China’s own 
statistics show that, during the 1959 
freedom uprising in Tibet 87,000 Tibetans 
were ‘‘eliminated.’’ Today the 
Tibet Information Center in London 
cites at least 183 political prisoners at 
the end of 1998, including 246 women. 
The Physicians of Human Rights have 
reported the brutal torture of Tibetan 
political prisoners by their Chinese 
jailers, and this torture by their Chinese 
jailers is rampant. 

The Chinese Government has recently 
issued a new law in Tibet eliminating 
religion in and promoting Marxism. 
This is the Chinese Government in 
Beijing that has kidnapped this young 
religious leader who would then take 
the seat of the Dalai Lama someday if 
he is still alive. What monstrous regime 
would take a little child who is 
nothing more than a pacifist religious 
loader, a figure of pacifism and a religion 
of Buddhism, and take him away 
and perhaps murder him. 

On May 29, the South China Morning 
Post Newspaper reported that, since 
March, Beijing has deployed extra 
troops to tighten control over Tibet. In 
addition, they have recruited former 
People’s Liberation Army troops from 
China to migrate to Tibet to act as 
sort of a civil guard to assure China’s 
control of Tibet by force. 

So here we are, here we are fighting 
and spending tens of billions of dollars 
to try to thwart ethnic cleansing in 
Kosovo, but we are calling the Communist 
Chinese regime our strategic 
partners when they are engaged in ethnic 
cleansing every bit as brutal and 
every bit as tyrannical as what is going 
on in Kosovo. 

When some people claim that China 
is not a threat to its neighbors, they 
conveniently forget that when Mao Tse 
Tung conquered China in 1950, Tibet 
was a sovereign country with its own 
language, its own religion, and its own 
culture. There is no difference, as I say, 
between China’s occupation and the 
genocide of Tibet than Japan’s brutal 
occupation and the ethnic cleansing of 
Manchuria in the 1930s. 

The United States tried to pretend at 
that time in the 1930s that the Japanese 
were not committing an aggression. 
They had hoped that by trade and 
finance that the Japanese would be 
able to be turned, that the presence of 

Japanese students at our colleagues 
and universities, that dancing the 
Charleston would help the Japanese 
turn a different way, that Japan would 
be our friend with this type of engagement. 


In 1941, these delusions lead to the 
tragedy of Pearl Harbor. Given the lethal 
power of today’s weapons of mass 
destruction, we would not have the luxury 
of months to build up our Navy and 
our military and our Air Force to respond 
to a devastating surprise attack 
by China’s so-called asymmetrical warfare 
plans. 

In the Xinjiang region, in the far regions 
known as East Turkestan, that is 
Xinjiang, the suppression of religion, 
and that is the Muslim religion and political 
arrests and executions parallel 
the systematic brutality in Tibet. 

In 1999, Amnesty International documented 
190 executions of political prisoners 
in that province after unfair and 
summary trials. The report also cites 
200 political prisoners known to be detained 
at this time with arbitrary arrests 
continuing. 

Whether it is Tibet or in East 
Turkestan, while the local populations 
continue to decline, part through 
forced abortion, part through sterilization, 
ethnic Chinese, as I have stated, 
the ethnic Chinese are moving in. 
Hordes of them are coming in and establishing 
these areas as colonies, as 
resource-rich territories. 

China is making major military 
moves, not only on the continent of 
Asia, but is moving towards places like 
the Spratley Islands, bullying our regional 
democratic allies, such as the 
Philippines and Indonesia, and threatening 
the vital sea lanes of the South 
China Sea. 

There are some people who claim 
that it is wrong to compare the Communist 
Chinese to Hitler and the 
Natzis. I agree maybe that that comparison 
is not right. But I do believe 
that there is a more accurate comparison; 
and that is, the Communist Chinese 
should be compared to the militaristic 
regimes in the Japanese era of 
the 1920s, perhaps the regimes of Tojo 
and Yamamoto. 

What was the goal of the Japanese in 
the 1920s? They believed themselves to 
be racially superior. They believed 
they had a right to dominate Asia and 
to conquer the Pacific. It is ironic that, 
in less than 10 years before the attack 
in Pearl Harbor, that Admiral 
Yamamoto attended graduate school in 
the United States at Harvard University 
and as a student in the United 
States was made aware of many American 
military strategies. 

The Spratley Islands lie close to the 
coast of the Philippines, Malaysia, and 
Indonesia. China is now building fortifications 
on these atolls and reefs 
while it builds up a blue water navy 
and a submarine force. 

Ironically, there has been no militarization 
of these islands, the 
Spratley Islands, since the Japanese 
used them as stationery aircraft carriers 
during the early stages of World 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3851 

War II. The Spratleys were turned in at policy toward China, we are exactly The reason I bring that up, is that in 
that time, they were turned into mili-the opposite of those who want to over-that same document, on XVIII, it talks 
tary bases in preparation to invade the look Communist Chinese aggressions. about two companies in particular who 

Philippines. 

It was incredibly eerie last December, 
on the eve of Pearl Harbor Day, 
when my special assistance Al Santoli 
and my good friend Jeff Baxter toured 
the battlefield and the tunnels of 
Corrigedor right outside of Manila. And 
on this pleasant tropical mountainous 
island, American military men and 
women held out as their ammunition 
ran out and they held out against overwhelming 
Japanese occupation force. 
In fact, my wife’s Uncle Lou was captured 
by the Japanese in the Philippines. 
He was part of the Bataan 
Death March where he saw innocent civilians 
being bayoneted and horrible 
human rights abuses and abuses and 
horrible things that happened to those 
American prisoners. 

That was what happened because of 
our policy in the 1920s, ignoring what 
was going on in Japan. That was our 
policy of engagement with the Japanese, 
just as our policy is now to the 
Communist Chinese; and they have the 
same dream the Japanese had, dominating 
Asia and the Pacific basin. 

Two days later after my visit to 
Corrigedor, my friends and I, including 
Filipino Congressman Roy Golez, a 
graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy 
flew over the Spratley Islands in an antiquated 
Philippine air force C–130, 
which is around 150 miles from the 
Philippines over to the South China 
Sea. 

We dropped out of a thick monsoon 
cloud cover to about 500 feet over the 
Spratleys over an outcropping called 
Mischief Reef. In that lagoon at Mischief 
Reef, within this oval-shaped 
reef, there were three large Chinese 
warships. I witnessed hundreds of Chinese 
construction workers with sparks 
flying off their welding torches, building 
permanent military structures on 
that reef 150 miles off the coast of the 
Philippines, and bracketing the South 
China Sea and all of the routes, the 
trading routes that go through there. 
Half or three-quarters of the Japanese 
trade goes through those areas, that 
trading route, that waterway. 

Within 2 months after that flight, 
Congressman Golez sent me new photos 
showing me a three-story Chinese concrete 
command and control building on 
the very site that we overflew. This 
grab of territory and this bullying of 
the Philippines is a warning we ignore 
at our own peril. 

Again, it is time to fundamentally 
change our policies toward the Communist 
Chinese government that controls 
the mainland of China. We are not 
talking about isolating China. Those 
claiming that we are trying to isolate 
China are setting up a false dichotomy. 
We are talking about a rational policy 
towards a hostile dictatorship, not an 
isolationist policy of ignoring overseas 
threats. 

In fact, those of us who are advocating 
to have a strong and forceful 

b2320 

Those are the ones who are more 
akin to the isolationists of the past. In 
fact, they are relying on wishful thinking 
instead of making the tough decisions 
that are necessary to avert war. 
We are the realists. We are not isolationists. 
We are the ones who are asking 
for a policy that makes sense when 
confronting a dictatorship. And dictators 
do not respect weakness. They 
respect strength, they respect purpose, 
they respect people who watch out for 
their own interests. 

I introduced a resolution, as my colleague 
is aware. I introduced this resolution 
yesterday and it is a resolution 
of disapproving the annual extension of 
normal trade relations, formerly Most 
Favored Nation status, and we would 
disapprove that. That is what my resolution 
states. And this is not intended 
to isolate China. Instead, it sends Beijing 
a direct message that the United 
States will not stand by and let them 
bully their neighbors and we will 
stand, instead, for our own Democratic 
principles, and we will protect the economic 
as well as the military interests 
of our country. 

And when we talk about our country, 
we are not just talking about a small 
business elite, a clique of billionaires 
who make a short-term profit at a time 
when the economic policies are hurting 
us economically and the military consequences 
are overwhelming. 

Madam Speaker, I yield to my colleague, 
the gentleman from California. 

Mr. OSE. Madam Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman from California, and I 
am particularly pleased to be here with 
my good friend in the Speaker’s chair. 
I do not speak often on the floor, and I 
welcome the chance to come down 
today. 

I, in particular, was sitting in my office 
listening this evening to the discussion 
on the floor and I thought of 
the Cox report that I have been reading, 
traveling back and forth to my district, 
and in volume I, on page XXIV, it 
talks about the basis from the Reagan 
years for the reaching out to China; 
that having been a decision on our part 
here in the United States to use our relationship 
with the People’s Republic 
of China as a strategic offset in the 
Cold War with the Soviet Union and 
also to buttress our ability to launch 
space-based vehicles. 

The determination of the Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence, and 
as noted here in the Cox report, again 
on page XXIV in volume I, is that that 
decision, contrary to what people 
might hear bandied about by many of 
our colleagues, no longer is applicable; 
that the consequence or the necessity 
of having Red China as an offset to the 
Soviet Union no longer exists because 
the Soviet Union no longer exists. So 
the strategic underpinning of our commercial 
interaction with China has 
evaporated. 

have engaged in significant commercial 
interaction with the PRC, having 
to do with their missile defense and development 
programs, those being 
Hughes and Loral, and I just wanted to 
read to my colleagues some of the verbiage 
that was agreed upon by the bipartisan 
China commission that the 
gentleman from California (Mr. COX) 
chaired, for the record, having to do 
with multiple independent reentry vehicles; 
having to do with accident investigation 
techniques; having to do 
with testing, modeling and simulation, 
hardware design and manufacture of 
these ballistic missiles. 

I quote. ‘‘In both 1993 and ’95, Hughes 
failed to apply for or obtain the required 
Department of State licenses for 
its activities, because Hughes knew 
that the Department of State would be 
unlikely to grant the license and that 
the licensing process would in any case 
be lengthy.’’ 

It goes on to say, and keep in mind 
this is a bipartisan unanimous report, 
‘‘Hughes also engaged in deliberate efforts 
to circumvent the Department of 
State licensing requirement.’’ 

Now, this is the part that I almost 
went myself ballistic on the airplane 
over. ‘‘To this end, Hughes sought the 
approval of a Department of Commerce 
official for its 1995 activities and 
claims to have sought the approval of a 
Department of Defense monitor for 
some of its 1993 activities, although 
Hughes knew that neither official was 
legally authorized to issue the required 
license.’’ They knew. 

This goes on. And it is not just 
Hughes, it was also Loral. Same page, 
page XIX, volume I of the Cox report, 
and these are not my words, this is a 
bipartisan unanimous writing of the report, 
‘‘Loral and Hughes deliberately 
acted without the legally required license 
and violated U.S. export control 
laws.’’ This has to do with our most 
sensitive equipment, dealing with 
intercontinental ballistic missiles, targeted 
potentially on the United States. 

Where does this lead? Where does this 
lead? Where is the administration? 
Again, this is not put out with any singularity. 
This is a bipartisan report, a 
unanimously accepted report of the 
Cox commission. 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. Reclaiming my 
time for a moment, Madam Speaker, 
the first point the gentleman made, 
one would understand that. During the 
Cold War, when we were in a contest 
with the Soviet Union, we used the 
China card. We played the China card. 
And, yes, just like during World War II, 
when we allied ourselves with Joseph 
Stalin in order to defeat Adolf Hitler, 
which was the major threat to peace 
and freedom at that time, that was a 
moral thing to do. We were allying ourselves 
with one bad group in order to 
defeat a greater threat. It was okay to 
defeat Adolf Hitler by working with 
the communists, but after Adolf Hitler 


H3852 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

was off the scene and defeated, it was 
no longer the right thing to do working 
with the communists. That is number 
one. 

When Ronald Reagan was President 
of the United States and continued to 
have this policy of working with China, 
because the Soviet Union was still our 
enemy, even then we were supporting a 
democracy movement in China. We 
were supporting those people who were 
struggling to build a free China. That 
is why there was a great surge of democracy 
at the end of the Reagan administration. 
And at Tiananmen 
Square, which, of course, happened 
right after Reagan left office, there was 
this great upsurge of democracy in 
China, and within a few months they 
were massacred. They were massacred 
at Tiananmen Square, which was just 
10 years ago. 

But let me go to this point about the 
companies that my colleague from 
California is talking about. I am the 
chairman of the Subcommittee on 
Space and Aeronautics of the Committee 
on Science, and it was the activities 
of several of these American 
aerospace companies that first led me 
several years ago to investigate this 
issue. 

I spent 6 months of my life investigating 
that American companies 
were upgrading communist Chinese 
rockets. Perhaps my friend from Arizona 
remembers me stopping on the 
floor and saying something terrible is 
going on here and I am looking into it. 
I went around telling people, ‘‘I investigated 
this. I went to the contractors 
and subcontractors.’’ And, finally, I got 
enough information to prove exactly 
what the Cox report has verified and 
there was an official investigation 
launched by the Cox report. 

But what is significant here is these 
companies are part of an engagement 
strategy. My colleagues have to remember 
we have set down the rules for 
these companies to go into China. The 
idea is that engagement will make 
China more liberal and will then pose 
less of a threat to the United States. 
But what are we reading? What is the 
gentleman telling us? What that report 
verifies is this policy has had the opposite 
impact. In a horrible way it has 
made us vulnerable like we never 
dreamed we would be vulnerable. Our 
children now are in jeopardy to be incinerated 
by these high-tech weapon 
systems we spent billions of dollars to 
develop. We could not have imagined 
that in our worst nightmare. It has 
been a wrong policy. We have to go 
back and reexamine it. We have to 
change that policy. 

And what has it done? It has made us 
less safe over here. It has not been good 
for us economically. Our companies are 
setting up factories over there to put 
our own people out of work. It is corrupting 
our own political process. 

b2330 

not over in China lobbying for democracy. 
They are lobbying us. They are 
giving us contributions in order to protect 
their slave trade and their blood 
money. 

I yield to my friend from Arizona. 

Mr. HAYWORTH. I thank my colleagues 
from California. I thank our 
new Member of the Congress for his 
perceptive abilities to go right to the 
bipartisan report and get to the heart 
of the matter. And as my more senior 
colleague from California points out, 
as I sit and hear my two friends reflect 
on this obscenity committed against 
our constitutional republic, I cannot 
help as a student of history step back 
and realize how prophetic were the 
words of our 34th President, Dwight 
David Eisenhower, in his farewell address 
when he told us to be mindful of 
the military-industrial complex, of 
those whose allegiance to our Nation 
could be subverted. And we have seen it 
in the case of Hughes and Loral, in the 
case of Loral, Bernard Schwartz, the 
top contributor to the Democratic National 
Committee, and it is tragic that 
this transpired. But facts are stubborn 
things. And to look beyond that, to the 
words of the bipartisan report, that 
these companies willfully circumvented 
American law and, Madam 
Speaker, this points out an affliction, a 
cancer that is infecting the body politic, 
when we have those who have 
sworn to uphold and execute our laws 
who refuse to enforce the law and apparently 
have broken those laws. 

My colleague from California, in the 
candor for which he is renowned, pointed 
a portion of the culpability at the 
Congress. But the inescapable fact remains 
that at the other end of Pennsylvania 
Avenue, there are those who willfully, 
willingly sought the contributions 
of a foreign power, of those who 
are not citizens of the United States, of 
those who are not eligible to participate 
in our political system to gain political 
victory. 

At this point, Madam Speaker, we 
must ask, what price political victory? 
The betrayal of our most sensitive 
technologies to put in harm’s way the 
very children the President of the 
United States spoke of at this podium 
in his State of the Union address 2 
years ago when he came here and 
bragged to the Congress of the United 
States that no American child lived or 
went to sleep that night under the 
threat of Russian missiles? What price 
victory, Madam Speaker? What price 
victory? When those who swear to uphold 
and defend the Constitution 
against all enemies, foreign and domestic, 
and provide for the common defense 
would allow such a perversion of 
priorities today to the point where we 
have not only the Communist Chinese 
but the outlaw nation that is North 
Korea and the extremist states of Iraq 
and Iran and the others who now possess 
nuclear technology and have within 
their grasp the ability to harm virtually 
every American family. 

this. But the strength of our constitutional 
republic throughout our history 
has been that we heed the call and understand 
the threats and understand 
the dangers. And we stand again, 
Madam Speaker, at that very juncture. 
How tragic the circumstance. But how 
compelling the call to action for this 
Congress and for the American people. 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. Reclaiming my 
time for a moment, let me just state 
that the fight on this issue will be over 
normal trade relations. If we again 
renew normal trade relations with 
Communist China, this body is going to 
send the signal to not only Communist 
China but to the world that we are 
backing away, that we do not have the 
will to protect our interests, we do not 
have the will to be the world’s leader, 
we do not have the will to even protect 
our own national interests and our own 
national security. All those who are 
listening, all those people, American 
people who are out in the hinterland 
wondering what can I do, what can we 
do, there are policies that we have to 
make. The Cox report outlined things 
that we have to do. First and foremost, 
we have to quit treating Communist 
China as if it is a friend, as if it is like 
Great Britain or a democratic society. 
First and foremost, we have to quit 
calling it our strategic partner, quit 
acting like it is our friend and we have 
to recognize that it is a hostile power. 
As a hostile power, we do not have 
their scientists combing through our 
laboratories, we do not have exchange 
programs with their military which I 
found out they were having exchange 
programs with our military. We were 
inviting them here, have been having 
them here to see how our military conducts 
its business and to train their 
own military in logistics and how to 
run military operations. We have got 
to quit treating them that way. We 
have to build a missile defense system. 
We have got to do it. We have now 
given them the ability to incinerate 
our people. Our only hope is to make 
sure that we rush ahead with technology 
development to protect them 
now that that genie is out of the bottle. 
We have got to make sure that the 
United States of America ends the 
trading relationship that gives the 
Communist Chinese $60 billion in hard 
currency. 

The Communist Chinese, these people 
who run Beijing, they understand what 
is going on. At the end of the year, 
they have $60 billion in hard currency 
to do with what they want, to modernize 
their weapons, to make alliances 
with dictators and gangsters and drug 
lords all over the world, $60 billion in 
hard currency to destroy us. We have 
got to end the rules of the game that 
gives them that $60 billion. By the way, 
it is not a free trade situation. The 
Chinese have high tariffs against any 
American products that we want to sell 
there. And we have permitted them to 
have those high tariffs while their 

Those same companies and other These are questions that cause great goods flood into the United States at 
companies are lobbying us. They are unease. There is no partisan glee to low tariffs. Is this good for American 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3853 

working people? No. In fact, what is 
happening when you hear about we 
have about $14 billion where they say, 
‘‘They bought $14 billion worth of 
goods from us.’’ But if you look at 
what those goods are, those are mainly 
technologies and manufacturing units, 
so that we are building up their capabilities, 
their military capabilities and 
their manufacturing capabilities with 
that $14 billion, while they flood into 
our market with about $80 billion 
worth of goods and services which they 
sell to us with almost no tariff. So, in 
other words, when they talk about, 
‘‘We can’t isolate China, we have to 
trade with them,’’ they are not selling 
our products over there, they are building 
factories over there and they are 
doing it by closing factories here. And 
here is the real stinger, which I mentioned 
earlier. Most-favored-nation 
status or normal trade relations, as 
they say, what does that really mean 
in terms of government policy? The 
real impact of it is, because even if we 
do not pass it, people can still sell 
things, we are not saying you cannot 
sell things to China, all it means is if 
someone is going to set up a factory in 
China, he has to do so at his own risk. 
When he takes his money over there, 
he does not get a subsidized loan from 
the Export-Import Bank, or the IMF or 
the Asian Pacific Bank or any of these 
other multitude of financial institutions 
that receive U.S. taxpayer funds. 
All we are talking about is cutting off 
these big businessmen from having 
their investments guaranteed by the 
taxpayers and these very same taxpayers 
are having their jobs taken 
away because they are setting up factories 
in China to export back to the 
United States. 

Now, who has it been good for? Who 
has this economic policy been good for? 
It has not been good for our security, 
we have already shown that. My colleague 
from California demonstrated 
that these companies ended up doing, 
what, doing something that strategically 
national security-wise is a nightmare, 
so it is not good for our national 
security. It is not good for us economically. 
They say, ‘‘Oh, look at our big 
economic boom.’’ Well, our good, big 
economic boom, yes, why do these 
Americans have to be investing overseas 
in Communist China for us to have 
a boom? They could invest in a democratic 
country like the Philippines, for 
example, they need investment there. 
No, they are investing in Communist 
China because they can cut one deal 
with a gangster and they think they 
are going to get a quick profit. 

So who has it been good for? It has 
not been good for our country, for our 
economy, for the working people. It 
has been good for a few billionaires. I 
call them Bill’s billionaire buddies. 
That is who this China policy has been 
good for. We have got to have the courage 
to sever ourselves from the policies 
of the past and fundamentally reexamine 
those policies and strategies, not 
for isolation, not for isolation. We 

want engagement, yes, just the way we 
would engage Adolf Hitler or Tojo or 
someone like that. We engaged them in 
a way that showed them courage and 
determination and engaged them only 
in a way that would benefit the people 
of the United States and the security 
of the United States, not in a way that 
would make them think that we were 
whimpering cowards. 

b2340 
At the end of the day, when the 
President of the United States goes to 
Beijing and says, or Madeleine Albright 
goes to Beijing and mouths some cliche 
about human rights or talks about, oh, 
you have got to have a better trade 
barrier, lower those trade barriers, you 
got to do this, you got to quit persecuting 
Christians, you got to quit 
doing these things that get our Congressmen 
mad at you; the Chinese dictators, 
these gangsters, take that as a 
sign that we do not believe in a darned 
thing. They take that as a sign that 
even our President and even our leaders 
care more about these billionaires 
than they do about the American people 
and the national security. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. 
BIGGERT). The time of the gentleman 
from California (Mr. ROHRABACHER) has 
expired. 
Mr. HAYWORTH. Madam Speaker, I 
ask unanimous consent that I be given 
the time until the top of the hour when 
we have to, by the rules of the House, 
adjourn. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
6, 1999, the Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. 
HAYWORTH) for the remainder of the 
time until the top of the hour. 
Mr. HAYWORTH. I thank my good 
friend, the gentlewoman from Illinois 
in the Chair, and I thank her for the 
adroit manner in which she is administering 
the rules of the House this 
evening, and I thank her for the indulgence 
to continue this conversation 
with my two colleagues from California 
until the top of the hour, which 
will be 9 p.m. in the Western States 
from whence we hail. 
But, Madam Speaker, it is worth noting 
that our words and observations tonight 
carry to the American people not 
a paranoia, not a panic, but a clear, 
strong resolve that at long last those 
of us who are given the constitutional 
authority to provide for the common 
defense understand the clear and 
present danger that confronts our constitutional 
Republic. 
We take no glee in it, we wish it were 
not so. But as former President Reagan 
said, facts are stubborn things, and as 
my junior colleague from California 
points out and the bipartisan words of 
the Cox committee report, there are 
disturbing conclusions drawn that 
force us to reassess our national security, 
that force us to reassess our trade 
policy, that force us to reassess the affairs 
of state that ofttimes come under 
the heading of foreign policy. 

The challenges are real. No amount 
of spin, no amount of economic prosperity, 
no amount of lip-biting and empathy 
can obscure them from any quarter. 
And again we offer this because, as 
I was taught again during our district 
work period when I had the chance to 
stand alongside veterans in Flagstaff, 
Arizona, when more than 200 residents 
of that city came together to commemorate 
the sacrifices of our war 
dead, I was reminded that the words of 
our Constitution are more than verbiage 
strewn on parchment. They are a 
living, breathing part of us as a people, 
and we dare not, we dare not ignore our 
duties and our responsibilities. And citizen 
after citizen came to me expressing 
their real concerns. 

Oh, we do not hear about them from 
the 24-hour news networks, we do not 
hear about them except in scant effort 
by the three major news network anchors, 
but the American people understand 
that Abraham Lincoln, whom 
history predestined would preside over 
the most divisive bloody conflict in our 
history, understood full well that the 
American people, once fully informed, 
would make the correct decision; and 
our role is to fully inform and to answer 
this threat and this cause. 

And I am so pleased that our colleague 
from California joins us in his 
first term that he brings this report; 
and I would note, Madam Speaker, that 
those who may hear these words can 
gain access to the Cox committee report 
via my office Web site, and I think 
my colleague from California has more 
he would like to share from that report 
and other observations. 

I would yield to him at this time. 

Mr. OSE. Madam Speaker, it is ironic 
that we find ourselves here talking 
about rocket scientists, because under 
no circumstances do I pretend to be a 
rocket scientist. However I think, like 
so many things we are involved in, 
whether it be running our families with 
our spouses or raising our children or 
running our businesses, the devil of 
doing anything is in the details that 
are involved. And I want to run 
through a few things that are in the 
Cox report in particular related to 
what used to be the United States’ 
quantitative and qualitative edge in 
technology and what damage has occurred 
as a result of the loss of these 
secrets. 

As many people know, the United 
States has continually improved its 
ability to deliver intercontinental ballistic 
missiles, whether it be telemetry 
or design or payloads or what have 
you; year after year after year, compared 
to the situations in other countries 
where the technology available, 
for instance to the People’s Republic of 
China or others, was either based on 
1950s design or was wholly unavailable, 
period. And the reason these things are 
so important and particularly related 
to the most current news we hear 
about the loss of secrets from Los Alamos 
and other laboratories is that the 
design warheads and the manner in 


H3854 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

which they are delivered are significantly 
improved, both in terms of payload 
and efficiency, by virtue of having 
one country steal from us that technology 
that we have created by virtue 
of investment over tens of years and 
billions of dollars. 

For instance, what used to be our 
technology in the 1950s could deliver 
arguably a relatively small payload accurately. 
Over the years we have been 
able to create technology and implement 
technology that allows us to 
shrink the size of our warheads, improve 
the delivery system on a ballistic 
missile basis and put multiple warheads 
in a single delivery system as opposed 
to one warhead per delivery. 

The tragedy of the theft of these secrets 
is that our ostensible trading 
partners now possess the same ability, 
as compared to as few as 10 years ago, 
in the late 1980s, when they were totally 
incapable, incapable of delivering 
that kind of a weapon on the United 
States. And the reason that is important 
is that, as we go forward, as the 
House wishes and has adopted with its 
national ballistic missile defense plan, 
as we go forward, putting that in place, 
if we have a missile come to our shores 
with multiple, independent reentry vehicles, 
the difficulty of preventing 
those weapons from detonating are 
multiplied logarithmically. It is not 
arithmetic, it is not geometric, it is 
logarithmic because our ostensible 
trading partners, instead of having 
again one warhead per missile have 
shrunk the size of their warheads and 
loaded multiple warheads onto the missile, 
and as they come back into the atmosphere, 
will release them on target. 

This is something that affects every 
single one of us. It has nothing to do 
with economic trade in my opinion. 
This is a national security issue, and it 
is of great concern to me on this issue, 
as it has been, as you both know and as 
many of the others know here as to our 
intervention in Yugoslavia, that we, 
number one, are ignoring the national 
security interests in the case of these 
ballistic missiles and the information 
that has been stolen relative to technology 
and the like in one case, and we 
are unable to identify a national security 
interest in another case, that 
being Yugoslavia. 

b2350 
So the gentleman from Arizona’s 
comment is well made about how to 
get access to this. I am sure that the 
gentleman from California (Mr. COX) 
has it on his web site. I would encourage 
every American to at least read the 
forward summary in volume 1. It is 
frightening information. It is emblematic 
of the difficulty that we face and 
the dangers we face in the real world 
today. 
Mr. HAYWORTH. In fact, I thank my 
colleague for his comments. 
Madam Speaker, I would invite every 
member of this House, with the technological 
capabilities we all enjoy, to 
post this unanimous bipartisan report 

on their individual web sites so that, 
Madam Speaker, those in this country 
who are citizens, who are concerned, 
can have access to this information, 
full and unfettered, so that they understand 
the extent to which our national 
security has been jeopardized. 

I yield to my more senior colleague 
from California. 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. I think we have 
certainly outlined tonight the magnitude 
of the problem, and my colleague 
from California has demonstrated 
that what we are talking 
about is the survival or the incineration 
of millions of Americans. I mean, 
again, it is worse than our worst nightmare 
could possibly have been 10 and 20 
years ago. No one could ever have 
imagined that this would come about. 

But I worked for a guy in the White 
House who always said that what is important 
is not just to focus on the problem, 
but to make sure you always offer 
a solution, and then look towards the 
opportunities that you have. So I 
would just like for a couple of minutes 
talk about the options that we have 
and just say, what are they? 

Number one, first and foremost, we 
have to start off with a missile defense 
system. We have to move forward with 
missile defense. As my colleague from 
California just mentioned, it is going 
to be a lot harder now, because they 
not only have a missile with one warhead, 
and a missile that was pretty unreliable, 
but, thanks to some American 
companies using technology that we 
paid for, we paid for it, taxpayers developed 
that technology to protect us 
during the Cold War, now it has been 
given away and stolen and actually 
sold by our major corporate leaders, 
some of these major corporate leaders. 
So we have to go forward with missile 
defense, do it seriously, and do it as if 
the lives of our children depend upon 
it. 

Number two, we have to work closely 
and reestablish close ties and a trusting 
relationship with the democracies 
of the Pacific and Asia and the Philippines, 
Japan, Korea and Thailand, 
which no longer trust in the word of 
the United States, which see us kowtowing 
before this communist dictatorship 
in Beijing. The democratic peoples 
of the world have to know they can 
count on the United States, and especially 
in that area in Asia and the Pacific 
region. 

Again, we must go back to Communist 
China and we must alter our 
fundamental relationship, quit treating 
them as a friend and begin treating 
them as a hostile power, which means 
no more military exchanges, no more 
scientific exchanges, and especially no 
more subsidies for our businessmen 
going over there to invest and building 
up their economy and their capabilities 
technologically to build these weapons 
you are talking about. It is one thing 
to have the blueprints. It is another 
thing to have the machine tools and 
the computer technology in order to 
accomplish that. 

We can start, first of all, doing this 
by eliminating their ability to have an 
unfair trade relationship with us, by 
supporting my resolution of disapproval 
of normal trade relations in 
the next couple of weeks, which is 
going to come before the body. 

The American people, all of the veterans 
you saw and that I saw and you 
saw in your Memorial Day services, 
veterans from around the United 
States, should be here pounding on 
doors, demanding, demanding that we 
eliminate most-favored-nation status, 
that normal trade status with China be 
denied. 

This should be a goal of the American 
Legion and the Veterans of Foreign 
Wars. Patriotic organizations 
around the United States in the next 
two weeks should mobilize behind this 
and knock on every Congressman’s 
door, and they will listen if the American 
people speak. Money talks maybe 
in these campaign contributions, but in 
a democracy the voice of the people 
talk louder, and we can be glad we live 
in a country where the people’s will 
will be heard. We must invest in democracies 
and invest in democracy. 

What that means is this: How did 
Ronald Reagan win the Cold War without 
having to fight with the Soviet 
Union? We faced the same type of incineration, 
by the way, you are talking 
about, with the Soviet Union. The Soviet 
Union had MIRVed warheads too, 
did they not? They were a horrible 
threat to our well-being. For decades 
we lived under that threat. 

Ronald Reagan ended it in a number 
of ways. He rebuilt our military 
strength, which is something we need 
to do, not only missile defense. But 
what he did, most importantly, was 
support those people who believe in democracy 
around the world, whether it 
was in Nicaragua, where eventually the 
Nicaraguan freedom fighters, who people 
on the other side of the aisle did everything 
they could to prevent us from 
helping those people they called the 
Contras, and eventually there was a 
free election in Nicaragua, and those 
communists, the Sandinistas, were 
booted out, even though our colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle said they 
represent the real will of the Nicaraguan 
people. 

If we support democracy around the 
world, and that means especially in 
China, we should be financing and 
working just like we did with Lech 
Walesa in Poland and freedom movements, 
what Ronald Reagan did all 
over the world. We should focus on 
China as if our very national survival 
depended on us reaching out to the decent 
freedom-loving people of China. If 
any message goes out tonight, it 
should be Communist China, Communist 
China, may be our enemy. That 
regime of gangsters may be our enemy. 

But our greatest ally, our greatest 
ally, is the people of China. The Chinese 
people are our friends. They are 
wonderful people. They long for the 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3855 

same type of human dignity and free-sion of this Congress to make sure we United States, and as provided by secdom 
and liberty and justice and oppor-provide for the common defense. tion 2 of the act of May 13, 1884 (23 

tunity for their families that we long Stat. 22), to be administered to Mem


f 


for for our families. They do not hate 
the United States. They are not our enemies. 
We have to do everything to 
work for the freedom-loving people and 
build up that democracy movement 
that was wiped out by the Communist 
Chinese once Ronald Reagan left office. 

Let us work with them and build 
Radio Free Asia. Let us support the 
freedom movement. It is what is true 
to our principles. Do not let anybody 
say we are anti-Asian, anti-Chinese. We 
are not. We are pro-freedom, and we believe 
that freedom is the right of every 
person of every color of every religion 
and every ethnic background. That is 
our strength. 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Madam Speaker, 
one can almost anticipate the reflexes 
action of those who man the spin cycles 
elsewhere in the sectors of this 
capital city, those cacophony of critics 
that we are certain to hear. 

A couple of notes should be acknowledged 
as we conclude this time on the 
House floor. I thank both of my colleagues. 


Number one, it is not enough to say 
everybody does this, for, if that were 
the case, we would blame Lyndon 
Johnson for the John Walker Navy espionage 
spy ring that began operation 
in the late 1960s. 

No, the analogy may be somewhat 
quaint, but I think it is appropriate. It 
is one thing to lock your windows and 
doors and set an alarm and go on vacation 
and have folks cut that alarm off, 
somehow circumvent that system, 
come into what you thought was your 
secured home and steal your secrets. 

It is quite another thing for your 
neighbor next door to meet the truck 
of the would-be burglars, to let them in 
the House, to help them find your most 
valuable possessions, and then to disavow 
any knowledge of that action. 
And that is just how simple and just 
how sad the current dilemma we face 
in fact presents itself. 

A couple of final notes. It is sad that 
this administration has worked at 
cross-purposes. It has, on the one hand, 
deployed American forces to more locations 
than any other administration in 
the post World War II era, and, at the 
same time, it has denied the efforts of 
this common-sense conservative Congress 
to provide for our national defense, 
to provide the weapons systems, 
to provide the manpower and material. 
So you have a situation where there is 
work at cross purposes. 

Worse still, the actions of this Congress 
to provide a missile defense system 
at long last after the news of the 
Chinese theft, those on the left joined 
us in bipartisan fashion, and yet this 
President in subsequent correspondence 
has, pointed out by our majority 
leader, sought to reassure the Chinese 
that we would not mount a missile defense 
system. 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. 
BIGGERT). The Chair will remind Members 
to direct their remarks to the 
Chair and not to the television audience. 


f 


LEAVE OF ABSENCE 

By unanimous consent, leave of absence 
was granted to: 

Mr. FORD (at the request of Mr. GEPHARDT) 
for after 5 p.m. On Tuesday, 
June 8, on account of personal business. 


f 


SPECIAL ORDERS GRANTED 

By unanimous consent, permission to 
address the House, following the legislative 
program and any special orders 
heretofore entered, was granted to: 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. MCNULTY) to revise and 
extend their remarks and include extraneous 
material:) 

Mr. FILNER, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. LIPINSKI, for 5 minutes, today. 

Ms. NORTON, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. RUSH, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. BROWN of Ohio, for 5 minutes, 
today. 

Mrs. CLAYTON, for 5 minutes, today. 

Mr. PALLONE, for 60 minutes, today. 

Mr. OWENS, for 60 minutes, today. 

(The following Members (at the request 
of Mr. OSE) to revise and extend 
their remarks and include extraneous 
material:) 

Mr. FLETCHER, for 5 minutes, on June 
10. 

Mr. BURTON of Indiana, for 5 minutes, 
on June 15. 

f 


ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

Mr. THOMAS, from the Committee 
on House Administration, reported 
that that committee had examined and 
found truly enrolled a bill of the House 
of the following title, which was thereupon 
signed by the Speaker: 

H.R. 1379. An act to amend the Omnibus 
Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1999, to make a technical 
correction relating to international 
narcotics control assistance. 
f 


ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. HAYWORTH. Mr. Speaker, I 
move that the House do now adjourn. 

The motion was agreed to; accordingly 
(at 12 o’clock midnight), the 
House adjourned until today Wednesday, 
June 9, 1999, at 10 a.m. 

f 


OATH OF OFFICE MEMBERS, RESIDENT 
COMMISSIONER, AND DELEGATES 


bers, Resident Commissioner, and Delegates 
of the House of Representatives, 
the text of which is carried in 5 U.S.C. 
3331: 

I, AB, do solemnly swear (or 

affirm) that I will support and de


fend the Constitution of the United 

States against all enemies, foreign 

and domestic; that I will bear true 

faith and allegiance to the same; 

that I take this obligation freely, 

without any mental reservation or 

purpose of evasion; and that I will 

well and faithfully discharge the 

duties of the office on which I am 

about to enter. So help me God. 
has been subscribed to in person and 
filed in duplicate with the Clerk of the 
House of Representatives by the following 
Member of the 106th Congress, 
pursuant to the provisions of 2 U.S.C. 
25: 

Honorable DAVID VITTER, First Louisiana. 


f 


EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, 
ETC. 

Under clause 8 of rule XII, executive 
communications were taken from the 
Speaker’s table and referred as follows: 

2529. A letter from the Administrator, Agricultural 
Marketing Service, Department of 
Agriculture, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule—Raisins Produced From Grapes 
Grown in California; Increase in Assessment 
Rate [Docket No. FV99–989–2 FIR] received 
May 17, 1999, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Agriculture. 


2530. A letter from the Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer, Farm Credit Administration, 
transmitting the Administration’s final 
rule—Funding and Fiscal Affairs, Loan Policies 
and Funding Operations; Investment 
Management (RIN: 3052–AB76) received May 
25, 1999, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to 
the Committee on Agriculture. 

2531. A communication from the President 
of the United States, transmitting his requests 
for FY 2000 budget amendments for 
the Departments of Commerce, Defense, Justice, 
State, and Transportation, pursuant to 
31 U.S.C. 1107; (H. Doc. No. 106—81); to the 
Committee on Appropriations and ordered to 
be printed. 

2532. A letter from the Assistant General 
Counsel for Regulations, Office of Postsecondary 
Education, Department of Education, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule— 
William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program 
(RIN: 1840–AC57) received May 25, 1999, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 

2533. A letter from the Director, Regulations 
Policy and Managment Staff, Food and 
Drug Administration, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule— Indirect Food Additives: 
Polymers [Docket No. 92F–0368] received 
May 14, 1999, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Commerce. 

2534. A letter from the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, transmitting a draft of 
proposed legislation to provide a program of 
grants to children’s hospitals to support 
graduate medical education; to the Committee 
on Commerce. 

2535. A letter from the Assistant Adminis-

Madam Speaker, the American peo-The oath of office required by the trator, Bureau for Legislative and Public Afple 
deserve better. It should be the mis-sixth article of the Constitution of the fairs, Agency for International Development, 


H3856 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

transmitting a draft of proposed legislation 
to amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 
to establish a working capital fund for the 
United States Agency for International Development; 
to the Committee on International 
Relations. 

2536. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Defense, transmitting a draft 
of proposed legislation to address various 
management concerns of the Department regarding 
its security cooperation programs; 
to the Committee on International Relations. 


2537. A letter from the Senior Attorney, 
Federal Register Certifying Officer, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule —Rules and Procedures 
for Funds Transfers (RIN: 1510–AA38) received 
April 30, 1999, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Government 
Reform. 

2538. A letter from the Senior Attorney, 
Federal Register Certifying Officer, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule —Federal Government 
Participation in the Automated Clearing 
House (RIN: 1510–AA39) received April 14, 
1999, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the 
Committee on Government Reform. 

2539. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Personnel Management, transmitting a draft 
of proposed legislation to amend title 5, 
United States Code, to provide for appropriate 
targeting of early retirement offers by 
Federal agencies; to the Committee on Government 
Reform. 

2540. A letter from the Deputy Assistant 
Secretary for Fish and Wildlife Parks, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting a 
draft of proposed legislation to amend the 
National Trails System Act to create a third 
category of long-distance trails to be known 
as National Discovery Trails and to authorize 
the American Discovery Trail as the first 
trail in that category; to the Committee on 
Resources. 

2541. A letter from the Principal Deputy 
Assistant Secretary for Congressional Affairs, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmitting 
a draft of proposed legislation to 
amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize 
a cost-of-living adjustment in the 
rates of disability compensation for veterans 
with service-connected disabilities and dependency 
and indemnity compensation for 
survivors of such veterans, to authorize payment 
of these benefits at full rates for certain 
Filipinos who reside in the United 
States, to make improvements in veterans 
home loan guaranty programs, to make permanent 
certain temporary authorities; to 
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. 

2542. A letter from the Director, Bureau of 
the Census, Department of Commerce, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule—New 
Canadian Province Import Code for Territory 
of Nunavut [Docket No. 990416099–9099–01] 
(RIN: 0607–AA32) received May 6, 1999, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 

2543. A letter from the Assistant Secretary, 
Administration for Children and Families, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting the Service’s final rule—Child 
Support Enforcement Program; Grants to 
States for Access and Visitation Programs: 
Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting (RIN: 
0970–AB72) received April 6, 1999, pursuant to 
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 

2544. A letter from the Chief, Regulations 
Unit, Internal Revenue Service, transmitting 
the Service’s final rule—Election to Claim 
Education Tax Credit [Notice 99–32] received 
May 25, 1999, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 

2545. A letter from the General Counsel, 
Department of Defense, transmitting a draft 

of proposed legislation that addresses various 
management concerns of the Department 
of Defense; jointly to the Committees 
on Armed Services, Small Business, and Government 
Reform. 

f 


REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON 
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of 
committees were delivered to the Clerk 
for printing and reference to the proper 
calendar, as follows: 

[Omitted from the Record of June 7, 1999] 

Mr. SHUSTER: Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. House Concurrent 
Resolution 91. Resolution authorizing the 
use of the Capitol Grounds for a clinic to be 
conducted by the United States Luge Association 
(Rept. 106–171). Referred to the House 
Calendar. 

Mr. SHUSTER: Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. House Concurrent 
Resolution 105. Resolution authorizing the 
Law Enforcement Torch Run for the 1999 
Special Olympics World Games to be run 
through the Capitol Grounds (Rept. 106–172). 
Referred to the House Calendar. 

Mr. YOUNG of Alaska: Committee on Resources. 
H.R. 898. A bill designating certain 
land in the San Isabel National Forest in the 
State of Colorado as the ‘‘Spanish Peaks Wilderness’’ 
(Rept. 106–173). Referred to the 
Committee of the Whole House on the State 
of the Union. 

[Submitted June 8, 1999] 

Mrs. MYRICK: Committee on Rules. House 
Resolution 200. Resolution providing for consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 1401) to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal years 2000 and 2001 
for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for fiscal years 2000 and 2001, and 
for other purposes (Rept. 106–175). Referred 
to the House Calendar. 

f 


PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XII, public 
bills and resolutions were introduced 
and severally referred, as follows: 

[Omitted From the Record of June 7, 1999] 

By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Ms. 
SLAUGHTER, and Mr. SHIMKUS): 

H.R. 2005. A bill to establish a statute of 
repose for durable goods used in a trade or 
business; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. ANDREWS: 

H.R. 2006. A bill to amend title I of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 to require persons who are plan administrators 
of employee pension benefit plans or 
provide administrative services to such 
plans, and who also provide automobile insurance 
coverage or provide persons offering 
such coverage identifying information relating 
to plan participants or beneficiaries, to 
submit to the Federal Trade Commission 
certain information relating to such automobile 
insurance coverage; to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. BLUMENAUER: 

H.R. 2007. A bill to authorize the Consumer 
Product Safety Commission to regulate gun 
safety, to ban the transfer of a firearm to, or 
the possession of a firearm by, a person who 
has been convicted of a violent misdemeanor, 
and to ban the importation or 
manufacture of handguns which do not have 
certain safety features, and to ban the transfer 
of a firearm to, or the possession of a firearm 
by, a person who has been twice convicted 
of drunk driving; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
on Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in 
each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 

H.R. 2008. A bill to authorize the Consumer 
Product Safety Commission to regulate gun 
safety, and to ban the importation or manufacture 
of handguns which do not have certain 
safety features; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee 
on Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in 
each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
H.R. 2009. A bill to apply the same quality 
and safety standards to domestically manufactured 
handguns that are currently applied 
to imported handguns; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. 
H.R. 2010. A bill to provide for the establishment 
of a National Firearm Injury Reporting 
System, and for grants to States for 
the collection of information on fatal injuries 
caused by firearms; to the Committee on 
Commerce. 
By Mrs. CHRISTENSEN: 

H.R. 2011. A bill to establish the District 
Court of the Virgin Islands as a court under 
article III of the United States Constitution; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. DEUTSCH (for himself and Mr. 
WEXLER): 

H.R. 2012. A bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for coverage 
of outpatient prescription drugs under the 
Medicare Program; to the Committee on 
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
on Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in 
each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. DUNCAN: 

H.R. 2013. A bill to amend the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 to provide for the appointment 
of the Inspector General of certain 
Federal agencies by the President of the 
United States; to the Committee on Government 
Reform. 
By Mr. FRANKS of New Jersey (for 
himself, Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, and 
Mrs. ROUKEMA): 

H.R. 2014. A bill to prohibit a State from 
imposing a discriminatory commuter tax on 
nonresidents; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. GONZALEZ: 

H.R. 2015. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide a 5-year extension 
for the work opportunity credit and the 
welfare-to-work credit; to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 
By Mr. GUTIERREZ (for himself and 
Ms. BROWN of Florida): 

H.R. 2016. A bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to repeal the provision of law 
requiring termination of the Advisory Committee 
on Minority Veterans as of December 
31, 1999; to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. 
By Mr. HERGER (for himself and Mr. 
POMBO): 

H.R. 2017. A bill to amend the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 to enable Federal agencies 
responsible for the preservation of 
threatened species and endangered species to 
rescue and relocate members of any of those 
species that would be taken in the course of 
certain reconstruction, maintenance, or repair 
of Federal or non-Federal manmade 
flood control levees; to the Committee on 
Resources. 
By Mr. HOUGHTON (for himself, Mr. 
LEVIN, Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas, 
Mr. HERGER, Mr. MATSUI, Mr. CRANE, 
and Mr. ENGLISH): 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3857 

H.R. 2018. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to simplify certain rules relating 
to the taxation of United States business 
operating abroad, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mrs. JOHNSON of Connecticut (for 
herself, Mr. ENGLISH, Mrs. THURMAN, 
Mr. FOLEY, Mr. COOKSEY, Mr. SHOWS, 
Mr. SANDLIN, Mrs. CLAYTON, Mr. 
WYNN, and Mr. PAUL): 

H.R. 2019. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide that the unearned 
income of children attributable to 
personal injury awards shall not be taxed at 
the marginal rate of the parents; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Mrs. JOHNSON of Connecticut (for 
herself, Mr. HOUGHTON, Mr. CAMP, Mr. 
ENGLISH, Mr. FOLEY, Mr. UPTON, Mr. 
LAZIO, Mr. BOEHLERT, Mr. GREENWOOD, 
Mr. LEACH, Mr. SHAYS, Mr. 
EHLERS, Mr. LOBIONDO, Mr. 
GILCHREST, Mr. BASS, Mr. HORN, Mr. 
BILBRAY, Mr. KOLBE, Mr. QUINN, Ms. 
PRYCE of Ohio, Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, 
Mr. MANZULLO, Mr. OSE, Mr. SMITH of 
Michigan, Mr. HOEKSTRA, Mr. DREIER, 
Mrs. KELLY, and Mrs. ROUKEMA): 

H.R. 2020. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide marriage penalty 
relief, incentives to encourage health 
coverage, and increased child care assistance, 
to extend certain expiring tax provisions, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. KENNEDY of Rhode Island (for 
himself and Mr. BROWN of California): 

H.R. 2021. A bill to amend title I of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 and title XXVII of the Public Health 
Service Act to require group health plans 
and health insurance issuers to provide coverage 
for human leukocyte antigen testing; 
to the Committee on Commerce, and in addition 
to the Committee on Education and the 
Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. MCINTOSH (for himself, Mr. 
PITTS, Mr. ROHRABACHER, Mr. 
ENGLISH, Mr. TANCREDO, Mr. BLILEY, 
Mrs. CHENOWETH, Mr. SOUDER, Mr. 
ISTOOK, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. 
HOSTETTLER, and Mrs. MYRICK): 

H.R. 2022. A bill to prohibit compliance by 
the executive branch with the 1972 Anti-Ballistic 
Missile Treaty and the 1997 mutilateral 
Memorandum of Understanding related to 
that treaty; to the Committee on International 
Relations. 
By Mr. MCINTOSH (for himself, Mr. 
PITTS, Mr. ROHRABACHER, Mr. 
ENGLISH, Mr. TANCREDO, Mr. BLILEY, 
Mrs. CHENOWETH, Mr. SOUDER, Mr. 
ISTOOK, and Mr. SESSIONS): 

H.R. 2023. A bill to provide a schedule for 
production of elements for a national missile 
defense system; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 
By Mr. OBERSTAR (for himself, Mr. 
LIPINSKI, and Ms. EDDIE BERNICE 
JOHNSON of Texas): 

H.R. 2024. A bill to amend title 49, United 
States Code, to require air carriers to conduct 
safety audits of foreign air carriers as a 
condition of approval of certain cooperative 
arrangements between the carriers; to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mrs. 
MALONEY of New York, Mr. WEINER, 
Mr. UNDERWOOD, Mr. DELAHUNT, Mrs. 
MCCARTHY of New York, Mr. MEEHAN, 
and Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania): 

H.R. 2025. A bill to ban the manufacture of 
handguns that cannot be personalized, to 
provide for a report to the Congress on the 
commercial feasibility of personalizing firearms, 
and to provide for grants to improve 
firearms safety; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. PAUL: 

H.R. 2026. A bill to enforce the guarantees 
of the first, fourteenth, and fifteenth amendments 
to the Constitution of the United 
States by prohibiting certain devices used to 
deny the right to participate in certain elections; 
to the Committee on House Administration. 
H.R. 2027. A bill to require that candidates 
who receive campaign financing from the 
Presidential Election Campaign Fund agree 
not to participate in multicandidate forums 
that exclude candidates who have broad-
based public support; to the Committee on 
House Administration. 
By Mr. PITTS (for himself, Mr. SMITH 
of New Jersey, Mr. MCINTOSH, and 
Mr. WOLF): 

H.R. 2028. A bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2000 for infant and child 
health programs under chapters 1 and 10 of 
part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
International Relations. 
By Mr. RADANOVICH (for himself, Mr. 
GIBBONS, Mr. HERGER, Mr. SKEEN, Mr. 
SESSIONS, Mrs. CHENOWETH, Mr. HILL 
of Montana, Mr. STUMP, Mr. WALDEN 
of Oregon, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. SCHAFFER, 
Mr. ISTOOK, Mr. CHAMBLISS, and 
Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania): 

H.R. 2029. A bill to amend the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 to require 
that Federal agencies consult with State 
agencies and county and local governments 
on environmental impact statements; to the 
Committee on Resources. 
By Mr. RAMSTAD: 

H.R. 2030. A bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to improve the process 
by which the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services makes coverage determinations for 
items and services furnished under the Medicare 
Program, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
to the Committee on Commerce, for a 
period to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. SCARBOROUGH (for himself, 
Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. DELAHUNT, 
and Mr. CANNON): 

H.R. 2031. A bill to provide for injunctive 
relief in Federal district court to enforce 
State laws relating to the interstate transportation 
of intoxicating liquor; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. THORNBERRY: 

H.R. 2032. A bill to amend the Department 
of Energy Organization Act to establish a 
Nuclear Security Administration and an Office 
of Under Secretary for National Security 
in the Department of Energy; to the Committee 
on Commerce, and in addition to the 
Committees on Armed Services, and Science, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. WALDEN of Oregon: 

H.R. 2033. A bill to amend the Communications 
Act of 1934 to provide that the lowest 
unit rate for campaign advertising shall not 
be available for communications in which a 
candidate attacks an opponent of the candidate 
unless the candidate does so in person; 
to the Committee on Commerce. 
By Mrs. WILSON: 

H.R. 2034. A bill to provide for the establishment 
of a School Security Technology 
Center and to authorize grants for local 
school security programs, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Education and 
the Workforce, and in addition to the Committee 
on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. KING: 

H.J. Res. 56. A joint resolution recognizing 
Commodore John Barry as the first flag officer 
of the United States Navy; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 
By Mr. ROHRABACHER: 

H.J. Res. 57. A joint resolution disapproving 
the extension of nondiscriminatory 
treatment (normal trade relations 
treatment) to the products of the People’s 
Republic of China; to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 
By Mr. BLUMENAUER: 

H. Con. Res. 125. Concurrent resolution expressing 
the sense of the Congress in support 
of the development and use of firearms personalization 
technology; to the Committee 
on Government Reform, and in addition to 
the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. BROWN of California (for himself 
and Mrs. MORELLA): 

H. Con. Res. 126. Concurrent resolution to 
honor the ExploraVision Awards Program 
and to encourage more students to participate 
in this innovative national student 
science competition; to the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. HASTINGS of Florida (for himself, 
Mr. PAYNE, Mr. CHABOT, Ms. 
LEE, and Mr. CONYERS): 

H. Res. 199. A resolution to commend the 
signing of a cease-fire agreement and to urge 
a swift solution to the crisis in Sierra Leone; 
to the Committee on International Relations. 
[Submitted June 8, 1999] 

By Mr. TAUZIN: 

H.R. 2035. A bill to correct errors in the authorizations 
of certain programs administered 
by the National Highway Traffic Administration; 
to the Committee on Commerce. 
By Mr. HYDE: 

H.R. 2036. A bill to protect children; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition 
to the Committee on Education and the 
Workforce, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. MCCOLLUM (for himself and 
Mr. HYDE): 

H.R. 2037. A bill to combat youth violence 
and to protect children from violent crime; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. WELLER (for himself, Mr. 
CARDIN, Mr. CRANE, Mrs. JOHNSON of 
Connecticut, Mr. ENGLISH, Mr. 
MCCRERY, Mrs. THURMAN, Mr. FOLEY, 
Mr. COLLINS, and Mr. JEFFERSON): 

H.R. 2038. A bill to amend section 468A of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect 
to deductions for decommissioning 
costs of nuclear powerplants; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. STARK: 

H.R. 2039. A bill to restore actuarial balance 
to the Social Security trust funds; to 

H3858 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
addition to the Committee on the Budget, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 

By Mr. STUMP (for himself, Mr. 
EVANS, Mr. QUINN, Mr. FILNER, Mr. 
EVERETT, Ms. BROWN of Florida, and 
Mr. MCKEON): 

H.R. 2040. A bill to provide for a comprehensive 
assessment of veterans’ cemeteries; 
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. 
By Ms. GRANGER (for herself, Mrs. 
KELLY, Mrs. WILSON, and Ms. PRYCE 
of Ohio): 

H.R. 2041. A bill to amend title I of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 to provide to participants and beneficiaries 
of group health plans access to obstetric 
and gynecological care; to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. UPTON: 

H.R. 2042. A bill to establish a Commission 
on health policy for employer-sponsored 
health plans; to the Committee on Education 
and the Workforce. 
By Mrs. KELLY: 

H.R. 2043. A bill to amend title I of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 to provide to participants and beneficiaries 
of group health plans access to unrestricted 
medical advice; to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. SHERWOOD: 

H.R. 2044. A bill to amend title I of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 to provide to participants and beneficiaries 
of group health plans access to pediatric 
care; to the Committee on Education 
and the Workforce. 
By Mr. TOOMEY: 

H.R. 2045. A bill to amend title I of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 to provide to participants and beneficiaries 
of group health plans access to 
emergency medical care; to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. FLETCHER: 

H.R. 2046. A bill to amend title I of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 to ensure access by participants and 
beneficiaries of group health plans to information 
regarding plan coverage, managed 
care procedures, health care providers, and 
quality of medical care; to the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. TALENT (for himself and Mr. 
DOOLEY of California): 

H.R. 2047. A bill to amend title I of the Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 to improve access and choice for entrepreneurs 
with small businesses with respect 
to medical care for their employees; to the 
Committee on Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. BLAGOJEVICH (for himself and 
Mrs. MCCARTHY of New York): 

H.R. 2048. A bill to amend section 922(x) of 
title 18, United States Code, to prohibit the 
transfer to and possession of handguns, semiautomatic 
assault weapons, and large capacity 
ammunicition feeding devices by individuals 
who are less than 21 years of age, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 
By Mr. DAVIS of Virginia (for himself 
and Mr. WOLF): 

H.R. 2049. A bill to rename Wolf Trap Farm 
Park for the Performing Arts as ‘‘Wolf Trap 
National Park for the Performing Arts’’; to 
the Committee on Resources. 
By Mr. LARGENT (for himself and Mr. 
MARKEY): 

H.R. 2050. A bill to provide consumers with 
a reliable source of electricity and a choice 
of electric providers, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Commerce, and in addition 
to the Committees on Ways and Means, 
Transportation and Infrastructure, and Resources, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 


By Mr. DEFAZIO: 

H.R. 2051. A bill to amend title 49, United 
States Code, to require the Secretary of 
Transportation to investigate and hold public 
hearings in response to petitions claiming 
unreasonably high air fares or inadequate air 
carrier competition at airports; to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself and Mr. 
WALDEN of Oregon): 

H.R. 2052. A bill to provide the State of Oregon 
with a role in decisions made on environmental 
restoration and waste management 
at the Department of Energy’s Hanford 
Reservation; to the Committee on Commerce, 
and in addition to the Committee on 
Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Mr. 
BOEHLERT): 

H.R. 2053. A bill to allow taxpayers to designate 
contributions to charity on their return 
of tax and to establish the Checkoff for 
Charity Commission to ensure that such contributions 
are paid to the designated charities; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
and in addition to the Committee on Commerce, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. ENGLISH (for himself, Mr. OSE, 
Ms. PRYCE of Ohio, Mr. RAMSTAD, Mr. 
SHAYS, Mr. SCHAFFER, Mr. FOLEY, Mr. 
SHAW, Mr. GARY MILLER of California, 
Mr. NETHERCUTT, Mr. 
SANDLIN, and Mr. DAVIS of Florida): 

H.R. 2054. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reduce for individuals 
the maximum rate of tax on unrecaptured 
section 1250 gain from 25 percent to 20 percent; 
to the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Ms. ESHOO: 

H.R. 2055. A bill to amend the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to improve 
the safety of imported food, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce. 
By Mr. FORBES: 

H.R. 2056. A bill to establish United States 
Government policy regarding the necessity 
of requiring the full withdrawal of all Syrian 
military, security, intelligence and proxy 
forces from Lebanon and the restoration of 
Lebanon’s independence; to the Committee 
on International Relations, and in addition 
to the Committees on Ways and Means, and 
Banking and Financial Services, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. HOSTETTLER (for himself, Mr. 
ADERHOLT, Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland, 
Mrs. CHENOWETH, Mr. JONES of 
North Carolina, Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky, 
Mr. MCINTOSH, Mr. PICKERING, 
and Mr. TANCREDO): 

H.R. 2057. A bill to amend the Revised 
Statutes of the United States to eliminate 
the chilling effect on the constitutionally 
protected expression of religion by State and 
local officials that results from the threat 
that potential litigants may seek damages 
and attorney’s fees; to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 
By Mr. ISAKSON: 

H.R. 2058. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to allow a deduction for estate 
tax purposes equal to the value of the 
decedent’s individual retirement plans, section 
401(k) plans, and certain other retirement 
plans; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 

By Mr. KING (for himself and Mr. STU


PAK): 

H.R. 2059. A bill to amend the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to 
extend the retroactive eligibility dates for financial 
assistance for higher education for 
spouses and dependant children of Federal, 
State, and local law enforcement officers 
who are killed in the line of duty; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself and Mr. 
CRAMER): 

H.R. 2060. A bill to amend title 23, United 
States Code, and the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 to make revenues from excise taxes 
imposed on fuel used in trains available for 
projects for the elimination of hazards of 
railway-highway crossings, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure, and in addition to 
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. LUCAS of Kentucky: 

H.R. 2061. A bill to amend title I of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
1968 to reduce the amount of funds to a State 
that does not have in effect certain provisions; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mrs. MALONEY of New York (for 
herself and Mr. CASTLE): 

H.R. 2062. A bill to amend the Right to Financial 
Privacy Act of 1978 with respect to 
financial exploitation of older or disabled individuals; 
to the Committee on Banking and 
Financial Services. 
By Mr. MARKEY: 

H.R. 2063. A bill to provide for a study of 
marketing practices of the firearms industry; 
to the Committee on Commerce, and in 
addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts: 

H.R. 2064. A bill to suspend temporarily the 
duty on instant print film; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
H.R. 2065. A bill to suspend temporarily the 
duty on instant print film; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. PICKERING (for himself, Mr. 
THOMPSON of California, and Mr. 
CHAMBLISS): 

H.R. 2066. A bill to amend the Food Security 
Act of 1985 to authorize the annual enrollment 
of land in the wetlands reserve program, 
to extend the program through 2005, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Agriculture. 
By Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin: 

H.R. 2067. A bill to require that, for purposes 
of the 2000 census, members of the 
armed forces on active duty be allocated to 
their home of record, and overseas military 
dependents be allocated to their last United 
States residence or, alternatively, to the 
same place as the member of the armed 
forces; to the Committee on Government Reform. 
By Mr. SALMON (for himself, Mr. 
BAKER, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. 
CUNNINGHAM, Mr. STUMP, Mr. PAUL, 
Mr. GOSS, Mr. CAMPBELL, Mr. ROYCE, 
Mr. HOEKSTRA, Mr. SOUDER, Mr. 
COOKSEY, Mr. COBURN, Mr. MCCRERY, 
Mrs. KELLY, Mr. FOLEY, Mr. 
HAYWORTH, Mr. BARTON of Texas, Mr. 
SESSIONS, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, and 
Mr. CALVERT): 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3859 

H.R. 2068. A bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to remove the sunset 
and numerical limitation on Medicare participation 
in MedicareChoice medical savings 
account (MSA) plans; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
Committee on Commerce, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. STARK: 

H.R. 2069. A bill to permit Secretary of 
Health and Human Services to adjust Medicare 
payments to reflect deviations from 
generally accepted practice in overserving or 
underserving Medicare beneficiaries; to the 
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
to the Committee on Commerce, for a 
period to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
H.R. 2070. A bill to provide for development 
and implementation of a single, unified prospective 
payment system for post-care hospital 
services; to the Committee on Ways 
and Means, and in addition to the Committee 
on Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
By Mr. TALENT: 

H.R. 2071. A bill to suspend temporarily the 
duty on a certain chemical used in the textile 
industry and in water treatment; to the 
Committee on Ways and Means. 
H.R. 2072. A bill to suspend temporarily the 
duty on a certain chemical used in the paper 
industry; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
H.R. 2073. A bill to suspend temporarily the 
duty on a certain chemical used in water 
treatment; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
H.R. 2074. A bill to suspend temporarily the 
duty on a certain chemical used in water 
treatment and beauty care products; to the 
Committee on Ways and Means. 
H.R. 2075. A bill to suspend temporarily the 
duty on a certain chemical used in photography 
products; to the Committee on Ways 
and Means. 
H.R. 2076. A bill to suspend temporarily the 
duty on a certain chemical used in peroxide 
stabilizer and compounding; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. BROWN of California: 

H.R. 2077. A bill to establish a National 
Forest Preserve consisting of certain Federal 
lands in the Sequoia National Forest in the 
State of California to protect and preserve 
remaining Giant Sequoia ecosystems and to 
provide increased recreational opportunities 
in connection with such ecosystems; to the 
Committee on Resources. 
By Mr. TALENT: 

H.R. 2078. A bill to suspend temporarily the 
duty on a certain chemical used in the textile 
industry; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means. 
By Mr. THUNE: 

H.R. 2079. A bill to provide for the conveyance 
of certain National Forest System 
lands in the State of South Dakota; to the 
Committee on Resources. 
By Mr. TRAFICANT: 

H.R. 2080. A bill to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to transport maximum security 
prisoners across State lines to prisons that 
are not classified to handle maximum security 
prisoners; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. UDALL of New Mexico (for 
himself, Mrs. MCCARTHY of New 
York, Mr. MOORE, Ms. KILPATRICK, 
Mr. WU, Mr. HOLDEN, Ms. HOOLEY of 
Oregon, and Mr. UDALL of Colorado): 

H.R. 2081. A bill to provide for the appointment 
of an Assistant United States Attorney 
for each judicial district for the purpose of 
prosecuting firearms offenses; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. YOUNG of Alaska: 

H.R. 2082. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to restore pension limits to 
equitable levels, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. WATTS of Oklahoma: 

H. Con. Res. 127. Concurrent resolution permitting 
the use of the rotunda of the Capitol 
for a ceremony to present a gold medal on 
behalf of Congress to Rosa Parks; to the 
Committee on House Administration. 
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Mr. 
GILMAN, Mr. GEJDENSON, Mr. SMITH of 
New Jersey, Mr. LANTOS, Mr. BERMAN, 
Mr. WAXMAN, Mr. ACKERMAN, 
Mr. MARTINEZ, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. 
HILLIARD, Mr. WEXLER, Mr. ROTHMAN, 
Mr. CROWLEY, Mr. HOEFFEL, Mr. NADLER, 
and Mr. WEINER): 

H. Con. Res. 128. Concurrent resolution expressing 
the sense of the Congress regarding 
the treatment of religious minorities in the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, and particularly 
the recent arrests of members of that country’s 
Jewish community; to the Committee 
on International Relations. 
By Mr. BILBRAY (for himself and Mr. 
GREENWOOD): 

H. Res. 201. A resolution recognizing the 
importance for families to pledge to each 
other to be organ and tissue donors; to the 
Committee on Commerce. 
By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mrs. 
MORELLA, Mrs. MALONEY of New 
York, Mrs. KELLY, Mrs. CAPPS, Mrs. 
JONES of Ohio, Ms. LEE, Ms. WOOLSEY, 
Ms. MILLENDER-MCDONALD, Mrs. 
NAPOLITANO, Mr. FROST, Mr. BROWN 
of Ohio, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mrs. 
THURMAN, Mr. REYES, Mrs. NORTHUP, 
Mr. FILNER, Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, Ms. 
JACKSON-LEE of Texas, Ms. HOOLEY of 
Oregon, Mr. COSTELLO, Ms. SLAUGHTER, 
Ms. BERKLEY, Ms. STABENOW, 
Ms. DELAURO, Ms. RIVERS, Mr. 
FATTAH, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. CUMMINGS, 
Mr. CONYERS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. 
BROWN of California, Ms. KILPATRICK, 
and Mr. SANDERS): 

H. Res. 202. A resolution expressing the 
sense of the House of Representatives that 
the artwork displayed in the Capitol and in 
the office buildings of the House of Representatives 
should represent the contributions 
of women to American society; to the 
Committee on House Administration. 
By Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin: 

H. Res. 203. A resolution acknowledging 
the dedication and sacrifice made by the 
men and women who have lost their lives 
while serving as firefighters; to the Committee 
on Government Reform. 
f 


ADDITIONAL SPONSORS 

Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors 
were added to public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 

[Omitted from the Record of June 7, 1999] 

H.R. 8: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. JEFFERSON, and 
Mr. ABERCROMBIE. 
H.R. 14: Mr. GREENWOOD. 
H.R. 21: Mr. KING, Mr. BERMAN, and Mrs. 
MYRICK. 
H.R. 25: Mr. FRANKS of New Jersey. 
H.R. 48: Mr. GOODLING. 
H.R. 49: Ms. CARSON and Mr. MOORE. 
H.R. 72: Mr. LUCAS of Kentucky, Mr. PETERSON 
of Minnesota, Mr. HALL of Texas, and 
Mr. BLUNT. 
H.R. 116: Mr. CLAY. 
H.R. 175: Mr. YOUNG of Alaska, Mr. 
PALLONE, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. MCCOLLUM, Mr. 
GONZALEZ, Mr. MARTINEZ, Mr. TOWNS, Mr. 
KIND, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. THOMPSON of 
Mississippi, Mr. BRYANT, Mr. OWENS, Mr. 
REYES, Mr. HOLT, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Ms. 
EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas, and Ms. 
WATERS. 
H.R. 194: Mr. CAMP. 
H.R. 206: Mr. GEJDENSON. 
H.R. 219: Mr. CHABOT. 
H.R. 242: Mr. TERRY and Mr. LATHAM. 
H.R. 316: Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas. 
H.R. 324: Ms. PELOSI. 
H.R. 353: Mr. PHELPS, Mr. LATHAM, Mr. 
ORTIZ, and Mr. ISAKSON. 
H.R. 354: Ms. PRYCE of Ohio. 
H.R. 363: Mr. PICKETT. 
H.R. 383: Ms. DANNER. 
H.R. 417: Mr. DELAHUNT. 
H.R. 443: Mr. WEINER. 
H.R. 483: Mr. ALLEN and Mr. MALONEY of 
Connecticut. 
H.R. 486: Mr. BOEHLERT, Mrs. BONO, and Mr. 
THUNE. 
H.R. 500: Mr. FILNER. 
H.R. 518: Mr. HYDE. 
H.R. 561: Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN and Mr. MARTINEZ. 
H.R. 614: Mr. PICKETT and Mr. CAMPBELL. 
H.R. 625: Mr. JEFFERSON. 
H.R. 673: Mr. BILIRAKIS. 
H.R. 688: Mr. MCKEON and Mr. PETERSON of 
Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 708: Mr. SNYDER. 
H.R. 710: Mr. TAYLOR of Mississippi. 
H.R. 749: Mr. ISTOOK. 
H.R. 785: Mr. LEWIS of Georgia. 
H.R. 798: Mr. SESSIONS and Mr. THOMPSON 
of Mississippi. 
H.R. 832: Mr. GEJDENSON and Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 835: Mr. HAYWORTH, Mr. KENNEDY of 
Rhode Island, Mr. WALSH, Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. 
HOSTETTLER, and Mr. PAYNE. 
H.R. 845: Mrs. JOHNSON of Connecticut. 
H.R. 859: Mr. SAM JOHNSON of Texas. 
H.R. 860: Mrs. MINK of Hawaii and Mr. 
ABERCROMBIE. 
H.R. 906: Mr. ENGLE. 
H.R. 965: Mr. GOODLING, Mr. WELLER, Mr. 
BOEHLERT, Mr. BARCIA, Mr. SCHAFFER, Mr. 
WELDON of Florida, Mr. OWENS, Mr. GREEN of 
Texas, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. RAHALL, Mr. 
BILBRAY, and Mr. ROHRABACHER. 
H.R. 1037: Mr. MORAN of Virginia, Mr. 
WYNN, Ms. LEE, and Mr. MEEHAN. 
H.R. 1053: Ms. LEE. 
H.R. 1071: Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. 
H.R. 1082: Mr. THOMPSON of California. 
H.R. 1083: Mr. BAKER, Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. 
NORWOOD, Mr. SWEENEY, and Mr. ETHERIDGE. 
H.R. 1093: Mr. GUTKNECHT. 
H.R. 1095: Mrs. CAPPS, Ms. SLAUGHTER, Ms. 
RIVERS, Mr. MINGE, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. RUSH, 
Ms. VELAZQUEZ, Mr. BROWN of California, and 
Mr. FILNER. 
H.R. 1108: Mr. CUMMINGS. 
H.R. 1111: Mr. SNYDER, Mr. CLEMENT, and 
Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts. 
H.R. 1149: Ms. KILPATRICK. 
H.R. 1187: Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland, Mr. 
PHELPS, Ms. JACKSON-LEE of Texas, Mr. INSLEE, 
Mr. MCCOLLUM, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. 
LOBIONDO, Ms. PELOSI, Mr. HEFLEY, Mr. CLYBURN, 
Mr. MEEHAN, Mr. LATOURETTE, Mr. 
MOAKLEY, Mr. SPRATT, and Mr. COSTELLO. 
H.R. 1193: Mr. TIERNEY, Ms. CARSON, Mr. 
WELDON of Pennsylvania, Mr. TOWNS, and 
Mr. COSTELLO 
H.R. 1196: Mr. FORBES. 
H.R. 1229: Mr. NEY. 
H.R. 1247: Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. SHOWS, Mr. 
BOEHLERT, Mr. KING, Mr. HYDE, Mr. SKELTON, 
Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. UNDERWOOD, Ms. BERKLEY, 
and Mr. CAPUANO. 
H.R. 1289: Mr. HINCHEY, Mr. 
FALEOMAVAEGA, and Mr. UNDERWOOD. 

H3860 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

H.R. 1300: Mr. COSTELLO and Mrs. MORELLA. 
H.R. 1304: Mr. TURNER, Mr. ROTHMAN, Mr. 
DICKS, Mr. GARY MILLER of Califonria, Mr. 
HOLT, Mr. LOBIONDO, Mrs. MORELLA, Ms. 
BERKLEY, Mr. PASTOR, Mr. GILMAN, Mr. BARCIA, 
Mr. WU, Mr. FRANKS of New Jersey, and 
Mrs. KELLY. 
H.R. 1313: Mr. ABERCROMBIE, Mr. 
BLUMENAUER, Mrs. CHRISTENSEN, Mr. BOUCHER, 
and Mr. RAHALL. 
H.R. 1315: Mr. DIXON. 
H.R. 1317: Mr. KLECZKA. 
H.R. 1324: Mr. GILMAN, Mrs. JONES of Ohio, 
Mr. FARR of California, and Ms. PELOSI. 
H.R. 1326: Mr. HALL of Texas, Mr. COOKSEY, 
Ms. CARSON, Mr. HOLT, and Mr. LAHOOD. 
H.R. 1336: Mr. LATOURETTE. 
H.R. 1349: Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. RILEY, 
and Mr. JONES of North Carolina. 
H.R. 1355: Mr. BONIOR, Mr. LANTOS, and Mr. 
GREENWOOD. 
H.R. 1382: Mr. BACHUS, Mr. PETRI, Mr. ARCHER, 
Mr. SOUDER, and Mr. PICKETT. 
H.R. 1387: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, and 
Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon. 
H.R. 1388: Mrs. ROUKEMA, Mr. MALONEY of 
Connecticut, Mr. GEJDENSON, Mr. HINCHEY, 
Mr. RUSH, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. KING, Mr. INSLEE, 
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr. LEWIS of 
Georgia, Mr. RODRIGUEZ, Mr. MEEHAN, Ms. 
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. COSTELLO, Mr. COYNE, Mr. 
LIPINSKI, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. MCINTOSH, Mr. 
BISHOP, Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, Mr. NEAL of 
Massachusetts, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. PASTOR, Ms. 
VELAZQUEZ, Mr. MICA, Mr. MATSUI, Mr. 
STARK, Ms. PELOSI, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, 
Mr. WALSH, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. ANDREWS, 
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. SHAW, Mr. 
LAMPSON, Mr. SHAYS, Mr. BAKER, and Mr. 
CROWLEY. 
H.R. 1398: Mr. HERGER. 
H.R. 1399: Mrs. THURMAN, Mr. LAMPSON, Mr. 
HALL of Ohio, Mrs. MORELLA, Ms. CARSON, 
and Mr. BROWN of Ohio. 
H.R. 1414: Mr. MOORE. 
H.R. 1423: Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. OXLEY, 
Mr. KOLBE, Mrs. MORELLA, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, 
Ms. KILPATRICK, and Mr. REYES. 
H.R. 1424: Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. OXLEY, 
Mr. KOLBE, Mrs. MORELLA, Mr. BARCIA, and 
Mr. REYES. 
H.R. 1456: Mr. BROWN of California, Mrs. 
TAUSCHER, Mr. ABERCROMBIE, Mr. CLAY, Mrs. 
MORELLA, and Mr. BACHUS. 
H.R. 1459: Mr. GOODLING. 
H.R. 1463: Mr. HYDE and Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. 
H.R. 1484: Mr. CLEMENT. 
H.R. 1485: Mr. BROWN of California, Mr. 
MCDERMOTT, and Ms. PELOSI. 
H.R. 1491: Mr. HINOJOSA. 
H.R. 1495: Mr. RAHALL, Mr. PASTOR, Ms. 
NORTON, Ms. MILLENDER-MCDONALD, Mr. 
MEEKS of New York, and Mr. DIXON. 
H.R. 1496: Mr. GUTIERREZ, Mr. JONES of 
North Carolina, Mr. DEMINT, and Mr. RADANOVICH. 
H.R. 1520: Mr. JEFFERSON, Mr. ARMEY, Mrs. 
MORELLA, Mr. FROST, and Mr. SOUDER. 
H.R. 1546: Ms. DUNN. 
H.R. 1567: Mrs. NORTHUP. 
H.R. 1579: Mr. GILLMOR, Mr. BARCIA, Mr. 
MEEHAN, Mr. CLAY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. 
TIERNEY, Mr. UDALL of Colorado, Mr. LIPINSKI, 
Ms. MCCARTHY of Missouri, Mr. KILDEE, 
Mr. GONZALEZ, Ms. MILLENDER-MCDONALD, 
Mr. DAVIS of Florida, Mr. LEVIN, Ms. LEE, 
and Mrs. NAPOLITANO. 
H.R. 1584: Mr. CASTLE, Mr. GILMAN, and Mr. 
GREENWOOD. 
H.R. 1585: Mr. INSLEE and Mrs. KELLY. 
H.R. 1586: Mr. BACHUS and Mr. TERRY. 
H.R. 1592: Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. BARRETT of 
Nebraska, Mr. WICKER, Mr. TAUZIN, Mr. PICKETT, 
Mr. COLLINS, Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. MORAN 
of Kansas, Mr. BURTON of Indiana, Mr. BRYANT, 
Mr. GILMAN, Mr. DICKEY, Mr. PETERSON 
of Minnesota, Mr. KING, and Mr. CAMP. 
H.R. 1603: Mr. SENSENBRENNER. 
H.R. 1621: Mr. CALLAHAN. 
H.R. 1631: Mr. BARCIA. 
H.R. 1665: Mr. BOUCHER, Mr. FOSSELLA, Mr. 
PICKETT, and Mr. FRANKS of New Jersey. 
H.R. 1670: Ms. KILPATRICK and Mr. JACKSON 
of Illinois. 
H.R. 1691: Mr. WELLER, Mr. BLUNT, and Mr. 
GREEN of Wisconsin. 
H.R. 1710: Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 1714: Mr. DREIER, Mr. BURR of North 
Carolina, and Mr. PICKERING. 
H.R. 1731: Mrs. THURMAN, Mr. BOEHLERT, 
and Mr. BALDACCI. 
H.R. 1734: Mr. ESHOO. 
H.R. 1776: Mr. ENGLISH, Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon, 
Mr. EDWARDS, Mrs. MYRICK, Mr. 
BALDACCI, Mr. GOODE, Mr. BISHOP, Ms. DANNER, 
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska, Mr. RAHALL, Mr. 
HILL of Montana, and Mr. UPTON. 
H.R. 1824: Mrs. NORTHUP, and Mr. NEAL of 
Massachusetts. 
H.R. 1839: Mr. GILMAN, Mr. WYNN, Mr. 
ENGLISH, and Mr. MENENDEZ. 
H.R. 1857: Mr. DOYLE, and Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 1858: Mr. BARTON of Texas, and Mr. 
KASICH. 
H.R. 1862: Ms. SLAUGHTER, Mr. BONIOR, Mr. 
ENGEL, Ms. BERKLEY, and Mr. GEJDENSON. 
H.R. 1932: Mr. REGULA, Mr. BURTON of Indiana, 
Mrs. ROUKEMA, Mr. WOLF, Mr. LAZIO, 
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. FORBES, Mrs. 
MORELLA, Mr. EDWARDS, Ms. WATERS, Mr. 
MCDERMOTT, Mr. OBEY, Mr. BROWN of Ohio, 
Mr. BENTSEN, Mr. DICKS, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. 
PAYNE, Mr. JEFFERSON, Mr. BORSKI, Mr. 
KLINK, Mr. UDALL of Colorado, Ms. DEGETTE, 
Mr. TIERNEY, Mr. MEEHAN, Mr. CONYERS, Mr. 
MCINTYRE, Mr. CONDIT, Mr. HALL of Texas, 
Mr. MCNULTY, Mr. HALL of Ohio, Mr. OLVER, 
Mr. CAPUANO, Mr. GILCHREST, Mr. GALLEGLY, 
Mr. PEASE, Mr. HORN, Mr. UPTON, Mr. ROGAN, 
Mr. GOODLING, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. DIXON, Mr. 
MCHUGH, Mr. MARKEY, and Mr. CASTLE. 
H.R. 1937: Mr. SCHAFFER, Mr. HEFLEY, Mr. 
MCINNIS, Mr. NORWOOD, and Mr. LARGENT. 
H.J. Res. 55: Mr. HILLEARY, Mr. TIAHRT, 
Mr. OSE, Mr. ROHRABACHER, Mr. TURNER, and 
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. 
H. Con. Res. 34: Mr. QUINN. 
H. Con. Res. 60: Mr. REGULA, Mr. MCINTOSH, 
Ms. CARSON, and Mr. SWEENEY. 
H. Con. Res. 77: Mr. GALLEGLY. 
H. Con. Res. 94: Mr. BARTLETT of Maryland, 
and Mr. BALLENGER. 
H. Con. Res. 107: Mrs. CUBIN, Mr. RYAN of 
Wisconsin, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. JONES of 
North Carolina, Mr. CRANE, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, 
Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. NEY, Mr. DOOLITTLE, Mr. 
GIBBONS, Mr. BRADY of Texas, and Mr. 
FOLEY. 
H. Con. Res. 109: Mr. SKELTON, Mr. WEINER, 
and Mr. DAVIS of Florida. 
H. Con. Res. 116: Mr. LEWIS of Georgia, Mr. 
PALLONE, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. JACKSON-LEE of 
Texas, Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts, Mr. 
MCGOVERN, Mr. MCDERMOTT, Mr. BROWN of 
California, Ms. PELOSI, Mr. BROWN of Ohio, 
Mr. FARR of California, and Ms. RIVERS. 
H. Con. Res. 119: Mr. HOLT and Mr. SHOWS. 
H. Con. Res. 124: Mr. LANTOS, Mr. ABERCROMBIE, 
Mr. COOK, Mr. UNDERWOOD, and Ms. 
ROYBAL-ALLARD. 
H. Res. 16: Mr. RAMSTAD. 
H. Res. 41: Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon, Mr. 
NETHERCUTT, Mr. MCINTYRE, and Mr. RADANOVICH. 
H. Res. 80: Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania. 
[Submitted June 8, 1999] 

H.R. 7: Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 17: Mr. HULSHOF and Mr. BOEHNER. 
H.R. 36: Ms. ESHOO, Mr. FARR of California, 
and Mrs. TAUSCHER. 
H.R. 44: Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 65: Mr. HINCHEY, Mr. CLEMENT, and 
Mr. HANSEN. 
H.R. 82: Mr. LOBIONDO and Mr. WEINER. 
H.R. 121: Mr. CALLAHAN. 
H.R. 155: Mr. COLLINS. 
H.R. 179: Mr. ABERCROMBIE and Mr. 
CRAMER. 
H.R. 184: Mr. BATEMAN. 
H.R. 205: Mr. HANSEN. 
H.R. 212: Mr. NEY, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. GUTKNECHT, 
Mr. INSLEE, and Mr. COBURN. 
H.R. 218: Mr. GEKAS. 
H.R. 232: Mrs. MORELLA and Mr. ISAKSON. 
H.R. 239: Mr. BROWN of California, Mr. 
WAXMAN, Mr. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. JEFFERSON, 
Mr. CAPUANO, and Mr. GEJDENSON. 
H.R. 248: Mr. PAUL and Mr. MORAN of Kansas. 
H.R. 271: Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. LAZIO, and Ms. 
BERKLEY. 
H.R. 274: Mr. BILBRAY, Mr. LARGENT, Mr. 
ISAKSON, Mr. TURNER, Mr. OSE, Mr. CALVERT, 
Ms. BERKLEY, Mr. DICKS, Mrs. CAPPS, Mr. 
MOAKLEY, Mr. FARR of California, Mr. 
POMBO, Mr. OLVER, Mr. WELLER, Ms. 
MILLENDER-MCDONALD, and Mr. GEKAS. 
H.R. 303: Mr. HINCHEY, Mr. GOSS, Mr. CLEMENT, 
and Mr. HANSEN. 
H.R. 315: Mr. BECERRA and Mrs. MINK of 
Hawaii. 
H.R. 347: Mr. HUNTER and Mr. WHITFIELD. 
H.R. 353: Mr. ANDREWS, Mr. GARY MILLER 
of California, Mr. MURTHA, Mr. FARR of California, 
Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon, Mr. ABERCROMBIE, 
and Mr. LARSON. 
H.R. 354: Mr. GREENWOOD and Mr. COYNE. 
H.R. 358: Mr. REYES. 
H.R. 360: Mr. MARTINEZ and Mr. BONIOR. 
H.R. 382: Mr. MARTINEZ. 
H.R. 405: Mr. HOLDEN, Mr. BLUMENAUER, 
Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN, Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon, 
Mr. MALONEY of Connecticut, Mrs. KELLY, 
and Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin. 
H.R. 413: Mr. GREENWOOD, Mrs. MCCARTHY 
of New York, Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon, Mr. 
LAMPSON, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. WYNN, Mrs. 
TAUSCHER, Mr. HOLT, Mr. CASTLE, and Mr. 
FATTAH. 
H.R. 417: Mr. REYES. 
H.R. 425: Ms. KILPATRICK, Ms. VELA´ ZQUEZ 
and Mr. MARTINEZ. 
H.R. 486: Mr. TIAHRT, Mr. DAVIS of Florida, 
and Mr. SWEENEY. 
H.R. 489: Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. JACKSON 
Illinois, Mr. MEEDS of New York, and Ms. 
DANNER. 
H.R. 515: Mr. WU, Mr. VENTO, and Mr. 
MENENDEZ. 
H.R. 531: Mr. LOBIONDO, Mr. BATEMAN, Mr. 
CLEMENT, and Mr. SESSIONS. 
H.R. 534: Mr. ANDREWS and Mr. DAVID of 
Virginia. 
H.R. 558: Mr. CAMPBELL. 
H.R. 576: Mrs. NORTHUP. 
H.R. 595: Mr. KANKORSKI, Ms. KILPATRICK, 
Mr. FILNER, and Mr. FROST. 
H.R. 629: Ms. KILPATRICK. 
H.R. 655: Mr. TIERNEY, Mr. PRICE of North 
Carolina, and Mr. MOAKLEY. 
H.R. 664: Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. 
H.R. 679: Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. 
H.R. 680: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr. 
GOODE, Mr. SALMON, and Mr. SANDERS. 
H.R. 690: Mr. FILNER and Mr. RODRIGUEZ. 
H.R. 693: Mr. SANDERS. 
H.R. 716: Mr. BARR of Georgia. 
H.R. 721: Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA, Mr. CLEMENT, 
and Mr. GILCHREST. 
H.R. 724: Mr. WEINER and Ms. JACKSON-LEE 
of Texas. 
H.R. 732: Mr. BARCIA. 
H.R. 750: Mr. MASCARA and Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 756: Mrs. NORTHUP and Mr. FLETCHER. 
H.R. 765: Mr. CHAMBLISS and Mr. SCHAFFER. 
H.R. 776: Mr. BERMAN, Ms. PELOSI, Mr. 
WAXMAN, Mr. ENGEL, and Mr. GEJDENSON. 
H.R. 783: Mr. CAMPBELL, Mr. TRAFICANT, 
Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. BORSKI, 
Ms. STABENOW, Mr. WELLER and Mr. ABERCROMBIE. 
H.R. 784: Mr. RAHALL, Mr. MCINTYRE, Mr. 
DELAHUNT, Mr. HINCHEY, Mr. BUYER, and Ms. 
MCCARTHY of Missouri. 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3861 

H.R. 792: Mr. CANADY of Florida, Mr. 
GILCHREST, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. KINGSTON, and 
Mr. TERRY. 
H.R. 797: Mr. BROWN of California. 
H.R. 798: Ms. BERKLEY. 
H.R. 803: Mrs. MYRICK, Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky, 
Mr. CALLAHAN, Mrs. THURMAN, Mr. 
WICKER, Mr. DIAZ-BALART and Mr. SMITH of 
Washington. 
H.R. 804: Mr. DOYLE, Mrs. CAPPS and Mr. 
WEYGAND. 
H.R. 809: Ms. BROWN of Florida and Ms. 
WOOLSEY. 
H.R. 815: Mr. PHELPS, Mr. WATKINS, and 
Mr. MEEKS of New York. 
H.R. 817: Mr. HULSHOF. 
H.R. 827: Ms. BALDWIN, Mrs. TAUSCHER, Ms. 
CARSON, Mr. UDALL of New Mexico, Ms. NORTON, 
Mr. GILCHREST, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi 
and Mr. COSTELLO. 
H.R. 828: Ms. KILPATRICK. 
H.R. 842: Mr. BOYD. 
H.R. 846: Mr. JEFFERSON, Ms. JACKSON-LEE 
of Texas, Ms. CARSON, and Ms. PELOSI. 
H.R. 850: Mr. UDALL of New Mexico. 
H.R. 854: Mr. OLVER and Mr. BOUCHER. 
H.R. 860: Mr. COYNE. 
H.R. 869: Mr. BOEHLERT, Mr. FRANKS of New 
Jersey, and Mr. BILBRAY. 
H.R. 890: Mr. ENGEL and Mr. BLUMENAUER. 
H.R. 895: Mr. TIERNEY, Mr. PALLONE, and 
Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 919: Mr. MCNULTY. 
H.R. 920: Mr. WEINER, Mr. BLAGOJEVICH, 
and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. 
H.R. 922: Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN and Mr. BACHUS. 
H.R. 941: Mr. JEFFERSON and Mr. MARTINEZ. 
H.R. 957: Mr. SCHAFFER, Mr. PASTOR, Mr. 
BISHOP, Ms. BROWN of Florida, and Mr. 
CRAMER. 
H.R. 959: Ms. ESHOO and Ms. PELOSI. 
H.R. 979: Mr. WALDEN of Oregon, Mrs. 
LOWEY, Ms. KILPATRICK, Mr. CAPUANO, Mr. 
SHIMKUS, Mr. PHELPS, Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts, 
Ms. LEE, Mr. BROWN of California, 
Mr. MASCARA, and Mr. LAZIO. 
H.R. 996: Mr. JOHN, Mr. KIND, Mr. MENENDEZ, 
and Ms. VELAZQUEZ. 
H.R. 997: Mr. TURNER, Mrs. CAPPS, Mr. 
MOAKLEY, Mr. DICKS, Mr. POMBO, Mr. CALVERT, 
Mr. KNOLLENBERG, Mr. OLVER, Mr. 
HOLT, Mr. ORTIZ, and Mr. HALL of Ohio. 
H.R. 1001: Mr. DICKEY, Mr. BLUMENAUER, 
Mr. FRANKS of New Jersey, Mr. PITTS, Mr. 
DEFAZIO, Mr. PICKETT, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, 
and Mr. SWEENEY. 
H.R. 1020: Mr. SKELTON, Mrs. CHRISTENSEN, 
Mr. REYES, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms. 
VELA´ ZQUEZ, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. SMITH of 
WASHINGTON, and Mr. WAXMAN. 
H.R. 1032: Mr. SHUSTER, Mr. LARGENT, and 
Mr. COOK. 
H.R. 1044: Mr. GREENWOOD, Mr. RADANOVICH, 
Mr. EVANS, and Mr. PICKETT. 
H.R. 1046: Mrs. MINK of Hawaii. 
H.R. 1063: Mr. CAPUANO, Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, 
and Mr. BILBRAY. 
H.R. 1070: Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. SALMON, 
Mr. ANDREWS, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. DICKS, Mr. 
SHAW, Mr. LAMPSON, and Mr. BONILLA. 
H.R. 1071: Mr. FARR of California and Mr. 
HINOJOSA. 
H.R. 1102: Mr. BONIOR, Mr. MCNULTY, Mr. 
QUINN, Mr. KING, Mr. WOLF, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. 
UPTON, Mrs. MINK of Hawaii, Mr. GOODLING, 
Mr. EWING, Mr. FORBES, and Mr. MCINTOSH. 
H.R. 1106: Mr. COOKSEY, Mr. KINGSTON, and 
Mr. TAYLOR of Mississippi. 
H.R. 1111: Mr. WEYGAND and Mr. HOYER. 
H.R. 1112: Mr. VENTO. 
H.R. 1115: Mr. COOK, Mr. BLAGOJEVICH, Mr. 
HINCHEY, and Mr. LOBIONDO. 
H.R. 1130: Mr. STUPAK, Mr. MARTINEZ, and 
Mr. LANTOS. 
H.R. 1154: Ms. KILPATRICK, Mr. WEINER, and 
Mr. RODRIGUEZ. 
H.R. 1159: Mr. BACHUS. 
H.R. 1180: Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. HOLT, Ms. KAPTUR, 
and Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. 
H.R. 1194: Mr. CLYBURN. 
H.R. 1217: Mr. LEACH, Mr. MORAN of Kansas, 
Mr. SPENCE, Mr. MOORE, Mr. EVANS, Mr. 
ROTHMAN, Mr. QUINN, Mr. PICKETT, Mr. 
FRANKS of New Jersey, Ms. MCCARTHY of 
Missouri, and Mr. BILIRAKIS. 
H.R. 1221: Mr. YOUNG of Florida, Mrs. MEEK 
of Florida, Mr. COOK, and Ms. SLAUGHTER. 
H.R. 1227: Ms. PELOSI. 
H.R. 1228: Mr. MCHUGH. 
H.R. 1254: Mr. DIAZ-BALART. 
H.R. 1256: Mr. BRYANT. 
H.R. 1264: Mr. BAKER and Mr. ARMEY. 
H.R. 1265: Mr. BARTON of Texas, Mr. DINGELL, 
and Mr. PALLONE. 
H.R. 1272: Mr. HOSTETTLER. 
H.R. 1273: Mr. BLUNT. 
H.R. 1287: Mr. FOSSELLA and Mr. EWING. 
H.R. 1291: Mr. EDWARDS, Mr. STUMP, Ms. 
RIVERS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. LARSON, Mrs. 
CAPPS, Mr. GREENWOOD, Mr. MCKEON, and 
Mr. METCALF. 
H.R. 1292: Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts and 
Mr. BROWN of California. 
H.R. 1294: Mr. JEFFERSON and Mr. 
KUYKENDALL. 
H.R. 1300: Mr. LATHAM and Mr. PETERSON of 
Minnesota. 
H.R. 1326: Mr. JONES of North Carolina, 
Mrs. ROUKEMA, Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON 
of Texas, and Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin. 
H.R. 1331: Mr. UNDERWOOD, Mr. PRICE of 
North Carolina, and Mr. ENGEL. 
H.R. 1337: Mr. FLETCHER, Mr. EHRLICH, Mr. 
NUSSLE, and Mr. NEAL of Massachusetts. 
H.R. 1344: Mr. OLVER and Mr. MCINNIS. 
H.R. 1347: Mr. SHOWS and Mr. BLUNT. 
H.R. 1352: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. NADLER, 
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. HINCHEY, Mr. OLVER, Mr. 
FILNER, Ms. BERKLEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. 
ENGLISH, Mr. MARTINEZ, Mr. CROWLEY, and 
Ms. SANCHEZ. 
H.R. 1355: Mr. NADLER and Mr. DEUTSCH. 
H.R. 1372: Mr. LOBIONDO. 
H.R. 1380: Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 1434: Mr. GRAHAM. 
H.R. 1436: Mr. GRAHAM. 
H.R. 1437: Mr. GRAHAM. 
H.R. 1438: Mr. GRAHAM. 
H.R. 1439: Mr. GRAHAM. 
H.R. 1445: Mrs. MORELLA, Mr. PRICE of 
North Carolina, and Mr. TERRY. 
H.R. 1469: Mr. BOSWELL. 
H.R. 1495: Mr. HINCHEY and Mr. LANTOS. 
H.R. 1497: Mr. HINOJOSA, Mrs. TAUSCHER, 
Ms. KILPATRICK, Ms. BERKLEY, Ms. GRANGER, 
and Mrs. MALONEY of New York. 
H.R. 1505: Mrs. MEEK of Florida, Mr. LEACH, 
Mr. ANDREWS, Mr. SOUDER, Mr. LATOURETTE, 
Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. HOEFFEL, 
Mr. CALLAHAN, Mr. DOYLE, Mr. RAHALL, Mrs. 
THURMAN, Mr. QUINN, and Mr. BACHUS. 
H.R. 1507: Mr. GIBBONS, Ms. BERKLEY, Mr. 
PASTOR, and Mrs. BONO. 
H.R. 1511: Mr. WATTS of Oklahoma, Mr. 
FOLEY, Mr. CANADY of Florida, and Mr. 
TERRY. 
H.R. 1515: Mr. WALSH, Mr. PRICE of North 
Carolina, Mr. BALDACCI, Ms. BROWN of Florida, 
Mr. HALL of Ohio, Mr. BLAGOJEVICH, Ms. 
JACKSON-LEE of Texas, Mr. CARDIN, Mrs. 
MINK of Hawaii, Mr. KIND, Mr. ACKERMAN, 
Ms. KILPATRICK, Ms. CARSON, Mr. STARK, Mr. 
MATSUI, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. COSTELLO, Ms. 
WOOLSEY, Mr. KLECZKA, Ms. RIVERS, Mr. HINCHEY, 
Mr. KUCINICH, Mr. DIXON, and Ms. 
BALDWIN. 
H.R. 1530: Mr. STEARNS and Mr. DEUTSCH. 
H.R. 1543: Mr. DIAZ-BALART. 
H.R. 1578: Mr. BLUNT and Mr. HERGER. 
H.R. 1593: Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 1621: Mr. LOBIONDO. 
H.R. 1625: Mr. DAVIS of Virginia. 
H.R. 1631: Mr. WATERS and Ms. NORTON. 
H.R. 1634: Mr. TIAHRT, Mr. FOLEY, Mr. NEY, 
Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. ENGLISH, Mr. MCCOLLUM, 
Mr. KINGSTON, Mr. CLEMENT, and Mr. WATTS 
of Oklahoma. 

H.R. 1671: Ms. CARSON. 
H.R. 1690: Mr. BROWN of California. 
H.R. 1704: Mr. RAHALL. 
H.R. 1706: Mr. BURTON of Indiana. 
H.R. 1710: Mr. BURTON of Indiana and Mr. 
GRAHAM. 
H.R. 1736: Mr. BARRETT of Wisconsin, Mr. 
ACKERMAN, Mr. TIERNEY, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. 
BONIOR, Mr. HINCHEY, and Mr. COYNE. 
H.R. 1760: Mr. LATOURETTE, Mr. BARCIA, 
Mr. ETHERIDGE, Mr. NEY, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. 
HORN, Mr. MCHUGH, and Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon. 
H.R. 1773: Mr. COYNE. 
H.R. 1777: Mr. MALONEY of Connecticut and 
Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 1788: Mr. BALLENGER, Mr. FROST, Mr. 
SANFORD, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. BROWN of 
California, Mr. KASICH, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. 
WEINER, and Mr. LOBIONDO. 
H.R. 1791: Mr. PASTOR and Mr. SHAYS. 
H.R. 1795: Mr. GARY MILLER of California, 
Mr. EHLERS, and Mr. RAHALL. 
H.R. 1798: Mr. FROST. 
H.R. 1804: Mr. JEFFERSON. 
H.R. 1819: Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 1827: Mr. SESSIONS, Mr. GOODE, Mr. 
DOOLITTLE, Mr. MCHUGH, Mr. TERRY, Mr. 
SOUDER, Mr. ENGLISH, and Mrs. MYRICK. 
H.R. 1832: Mr. MORAN of Virginia and Mr. 
SANDLIN. 
H.R. 1837: Mr. WALSH, Mr. LATOURETTE, 
Mr. WEYGAND, Mr. PHELPS, Mr. LEWIS of Kentucky, 
Mr. HOLT, Mr. GALLEGLY, Mr. DIXON, 
Mr. GREEN of Texas, and Mr. ETHERIDGE. 
H.R. 1838: Mr. SCHAFFER, Mr. FORBES, and 
Mr. WEXLER. 
H.R. 1841: Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. FRANK of 
Massachusetts, Mr. MCDERMOTT, Mr. BROWN 
of California, and Mr. WYNN. 
H.R. 1842: Mr. GONZALEZ, Mr. DELAHUNT, 
Mr. METCALF, Mr. WATTS of Oklahoma, Mr. 
MCHUGH, Mr. KENNEDY of Rhode Island, and 
Mr. GREEN of Wisconsin. 
H.R. 1847: Ms. CARSON. 
H.R. 1848: Mr. SANDERS, Ms. SLAUGHTER, 
and Ms. KILPATRICK. 
H.R. 1849: Mr. MOORE. 
H.R. 1850: Mr. FRANKS of New Jersey, Ms. 
BERKLEY, and Mrs. MALONEY of New York. 
H.R. 1871: Mr. FARR of California, Mr. 
GEORGE MILLER of California, Mr. RUSH, Mr. 
BERMAN, and Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 1885: Mr. WEINER and Mr. DELAHUNT. 
H.R. 1899: Mr. ENGLISH, Mr. MATSUI, Mr. 
EHRLICH, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr. 
LEWIS of Georgia, Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts, 
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. ROTHMAN, Mr. 
DEFAZIO, Mr. CROWLEY, Mr. WEINER, Mr. 
MALONEY of Connecticut, Mr. MCDERMOTT, 
Mr. MCNULTY, Mr. BAIRD, Mr. MCGOVERN, 
Mr. WELDON of Pennsylvania, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. 
PELOSI, Mr. TRAFICANT, Mr. KILDEE, Ms. 
SLAUGHTER, Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota, Ms. 
MCCARTHY of Missouri, Mr. LATOURETTE, Mr. 
GORDON, Mrs. CAPPS, Mr. KLECZKA, Mr. WU, 
Mr. TIERNEY, Mr. ACKERMAN, Mr. QUINN, Ms. 
KILPATRICK, Mr. HINCHEY, Mr. FORBES, and 
Mr. MASCARA. 
H.R. 1913: Mr. MINGE. 
H.R. 1917: Mr. FRANK of Massachusetts, Mr. 
BRYANT, Mr. NEY, Mr. MOAKLEY, Mr. COOK, 
Mr. BOUCHER, Mr. DELAHUNT, Mr. OLVER, Mr. 
DUNCAN, Mr. BONIOR, 
H.R. 1921: Mr. CALVERT. 
H.R. 1929: Ms. KILPATRICK and Mr. BROWN 
of California. 
H.R. 1939: Mr. RANGEL, Mr. CALVERT, Ms. 
MILLENDER-MCDONALD, Mr. CAPUANO, and 
Mr. BORSKI. 
H.R. 1941: Mr. FROST, Mr. GREEN of Texas, 
Mr. MEEHAN, Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota, 
Ms. DANNER, Mrs. CHRISTENSEN, Mr. FARR of 
California, Ms. KILPATRICK, Mr. HINCHEY, and 
Mr. DEFAZIO. 
H.R. 1975: Mr. ADERHOLT. 

H3862 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

H.R. 1977: Ms. DELAURO, Mr. WOLF, Mr. 
CAMP, Mr. MCNULTY, Mr. OLVER, Mr. FRANK 
of Massachusetts, Mr. OBERSTAR, Mr. SANDERS, 
Ms. MILLENDER-MCDONALD, Mrs. 
MORELLA, Mr. PETERSON of Minnesota, and 
Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.R. 1979: Mrs. KELLY. 
H.R. 1980: Mr. HORN. 
H.R. 1993: Mr. CLEMENT, Mr. CLYBURN, and 
Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon. 
H.R. 1994: Mr. WATKINS and Mr. ENGLISH. 
H.R. 1998: Mr. OBERSTAR and Mr. MEEHAN. 
H.R. 1999: Mr. OBERSTAR and Mr. BAKER. 
H.R. 2003: Mr. ENGEL, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, 
and Mrs. MCCARTHY of New York. 
H.R. 2004: Ms. MCKINNEY, Mr. DICKS, and 
Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. 
H.R. 2013: Mr. CLEMENT. 
H.J. Res. 21: Mr. POMBO and Mr. DEAL of 
Georgia. 
H.J. Res. 46: Mr. STUPAK, Mr. KING, Mr. 
OWENS, Mrs. KELLY, and Mr. HINCHEY. 
H.J. Res. 47: Mr. BROWN of California. 
H.J. Res. 55: Mr. TAYLOR of North Carolina. 
H. Con. Res. 8: Mr. GRAHAM. 
H. Con. Res. 30: Mr. PETERSON of Pennsylvania 
and Mr. MILLER of Florida. 
H. Con. Res. 97: Mr. SERRANO, Mr. CAPUANO, 
Mr. WEINER, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. WEYGAND, 
Mr. LUTHER, Ms. HOOLEY of Oregon, Mr. 
OLVER, and Mr. ABERCROMBIE. 
H. Con. Res. 100: Mr. ROTHMAN and Ms. 
BERKLEY. 
H. Con. Res. 109: Mr. BARRETT of Nebraska 
and Mr. CAMPBELL. 
H. Con. Res. 112: Mr. SHOWS and Mr. 
SAXTON. 
H. Con. Res. 113: Mr. PHELPS. 
H. Con. Res. 119: Mr. FROST and Mr. 
ENGLISH. 
H. Con. Res. 120: Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN, Mr. 
PASTOR, Ms. CARSON, Mr. SMITH of Washington, 
Mr. CALVERT, and Mr. GREEN of 
Texas. 
H. Res. 19: Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, Mr. BAIRD, 
Mr. GARY MILLER of California, and Mr. KILDEE. 
H. Res. 89: Mr. CAPUANO and Mr. LANTOS. 
H. Res. 147: Mr. LEWIS of Georgia and Mr. 
MCGOVERN. 
H. Res. 155: Mr. BONIOR, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mrs. 
BONO, Mr. CONDIT, Mr. DELAHUNT, Mr. DIAZBALART, 
Mr. DREIER, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. 
ENGEL, Mr. FILNER, Mr. FOLEY, Ms. KILPATRICK, 
Mr. LOBIONDO, Mr. MATSUI, Mr. 
NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mrs. TAUSCHER, 
and Mr. WEYGAND. 
H. Res. 169: Mr. PORTER and Mr. BROWN of 
California. 
H. Res. 183: Mr. ROHRABACHER, Mr. WICKER, 
Mrs. KELLY, and Mr. CHAMBLISS. 
f 


DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM 
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors 
were deleted from public bills and resolutions 
as follows: 

[Omitted from the Record of June 7, 1999] 

H.R. 111: Mr. FARR of California. 
f 


AMENDMENTS 

Under clause 8 of rule XVIII, proposed 
amendments were submitted as 
follows: 

H.R. 1401 
OFFERED BY: MR. COX OF CALIFORNIA 
AMENDMENT NO. 14: At the end of division 
A (page 326, after line 16), insert the following 
new title: 

TITLE XIV—PROLIFERATION AND EXPORT 

CONTROL MATTERS 

SEC. 1401. REPORT ON COMPLIANCE BY THE PEOPLE’S 
REPUBLIC OF CHINA AND 
OTHER COUNTRIES WITH THE MISSILE 
TECHNOLOGY CONTROL REGIME. 


(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than October 
31, 1999, the President shall transmit to 
Congress a report on the compliance, or lack 
of compliance (both as to acquiring and 
transferring missile technology), by the People’s 
Republic of China, with the Missile 
Technology Control Regime, and on any actual 
or suspected transfer by Russia or any 
other country of missile technology to the 
People’s Republic of China in violation of 
the Missile Technology Control Regime. The 
report shall include a list specifying each actual 
or suspected violation of the Missile 
Technology Control Regime by the People’s 
Republic of China, Russia, or other country 
and, for each such violation, a description of 
the remedial action (if any) taken by the 
United States or any other country. 
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The report 
under subsection (a) shall also include information 
concerning— 
(1) actual or suspected use by the People’s 
Republic of China of United States missile 
technology; 
(2) actual or suspected missile proliferation 
activities by the People’s Republic of 
China; 
(3) actual or suspected transfer of missile 
technology by Russia or other countries to 
the People’s Republic of China: and 
(4) United States actions to enforce the 
Missile Technology Control Regime with respect 
to the People’s Republic of China, including 
actions to prevent the transfer of 
missile technology from Russia and other 
countries to the People’s Republic of China. 
SEC. 1402. ANNUAL REPORT ON TECHNOLOGY 
TRANSFERS TO THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA. 

(a) ANNUAL REPORT.—The President shall 
transmit to Congress an annual report on 
transfers to the People’s Republic of China 
by the United States and other countries of 
technology with potential military applications, 
during the 1-year period preceding the 
transmittal of the report. 
(b) INITIAL REPORT.—The initial report 
under this section shall be transmitted not 
later than October 31, 1999. 
SEC. 1403. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF 
TRANSFER OF SATELLITE EXPORT 
CONTROL AUTHORITY. 

Not later than August 31, 1999, the President 
shall transmit to Congress a report on 
the implementation of subsection (a) of section 
1513 of the Strom Thurmond National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
1999 (Public Law 105–261; 112 Stat. 2174; 22 

U.S.C. 2778 note), transferring satellites and 
related items from the Commerce Control 
List of dual-use items to the United States 
Munitions List. The report shall update the 
information provided in the report under 
subsection (d) of that section. 
SEC. 1404. SECURITY IN CONNECTION WITH SATELLITE 
EXPORT LICENSING. 

(a) SECURITY AT FOREIGN LAUNCHES.—As a 
condition of the export license for any satellite 
to be launched outside the jurisdiction 
of the United States, the Secretary of State 
shall require the following: 
(1) That the technology transfer control 
plan required by section 1514(a)(1) of the 
Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 
105–261; 112 Stat. 2175; 22 U.S.C. 2778 note) be 
prepared by the Department of Defense, and 
agreed to by the licensee, and that the plan 
set forth the security arrangements for the 
launch of the satellite, both before and during 
launch operations, and include enhanced 
security measures if the launch site is within 
the jurisdiction of the People’s Republic of 
China or any other country that is subject to 
section 1514 of the Strom Thurmond National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1999. 

(2) That each person providing security for 
the launch of that satellite— 
(A) be employed by, or under a contract 
with, the Department of Defense; 
(B) have received appropriate training in 
the regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
of State known as the International Trafficking 
in Arms Regulations (hereafter in 
this section referred to as ‘‘ITAR’’); 
(C) have significant experience and expertise 
with satellite launches; and 
(D) have been investigated in a manner at 
least as comprehensive as the investigation 
required for the issuance of a security clearance 
at the level designated as ‘‘Secret’’. 
(3) That the number of such persons providing 
security for the launch of the satellite 
shall be sufficient to maintain 24-hour security 
of the satellite and related launch vehicle 
and other sensitive technology. 
(4) That the licensee agree to reimburse 
the Department of Defense for all costs associated 
with the provision of security for the 
launch of the satellite. 
(b) DEFENSE DEPARTMENT MONITORS.—The 
Secretary of Defense shall— 
(1) ensure that persons assigned as space 
launch campaign monitors are provided sufficient 
training and have adequate experience 
in the ITAR and have significant experience 
and expertise with satellite technology, 
launch vehicle technology, and 
launch operations technology; 
(2) ensure that adequate numbers of such 
monitors are assigned to space launch campaigns 
so that 24-hour, 7-day per week coverage 
is provided; 
(3) take steps to ensure, to the maximum 
extent possible, the continuity of service by 
monitors for the entire space launch campaign 
period (from satellite marketing to 
launch and, if necessary, completion of a 
launch failure analysis); and 
(4) adopt measures designed to make service 
as a space launch campaign monitor an 
attractive career opportunity. 
SEC. 1405. REPORTING OF TECHNOLOGY PASSED 
TO PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
AND OF FOREIGN LAUNCH SECURITY 
VIOLATIONS. 

(a) MONITORING OF INFORMATION.—The Secretary 
of Defense shall require that space 
launch monitors of the Department of Defense 
assigned to monitor launches in the 
People’s Republic of China maintain records 
of all information authorized to be transmitted 
to the People’s Republic of China, including 
copies of any documents authorized 
for such transmission, and reports on 
launch-related activities. 
(b) TRANSMISSION TO OTHER AGENCIES.—The 
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
records under subsection (a) are transmitted 
on a current basis to appropriate elements of 
the Department of Defense and to the Department 
of State, the Department of Commerce, 
and the Central Intelligence Agency. 
(c) RETENTION OF RECORDS.—Records described 
in subsection (a) shall be retained for 
at least the period of the statute of limitations 
for violations of the Arms Export Control 
Act. 
(d) GUIDELINES.—The Secretary of Defense 
shall prescribe guidelines providing space 
launch monitors of the Department of Defense 
with the responsibility and the ability 
to report serious security violations, problems, 
or other issues at an overseas launch 
site directly to the headquarters office of the 
responsible Department of Defense component. 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3863 

SEC. 1406. REPORT ON NATIONAL SECURITY IMPLICATIONS 
OF EXPORTING HIGHPERFORMANCE 
COMPUTERS TO THE 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA. 

(a) REVIEW.—The Secretary of Energy, the 
Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of 
State, in consultation with other appropriate 
departments and agencies, shall conduct 
a comprehensive review of the national 
security implications of exporting high-performance 
computers to the People’s Republic 
of China. As part of the review, the Secretary 
shall conduct empirical testing of the 
extent to which national security-related operations 
can be performed using clustered, 
massively-parallel processing or other combinations 
of computers. 
(b) REPORT.—The Secretary of Energy shall 
submit to Congress a report on the results of 
the review under subsection (a). The report 
shall be submitted not later than six months 
after the date of the enactment of this Act 
and shall be updated not later than the end 
of each subsequent 1-year period. 
SEC. 1407. END-USE VERIFICATION FOR USE BY 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA OF 
HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPUTERS. 

(a) REVISED HPC VERIFICATION SYSTEM.— 
The President shall seek to enter into an 
agreement with the People’s Republic of 
China to revise the existing verification system 
with the People’s Republic of China with 
respect to end-use verification for high-performance 
computers exported or to be exported 
to the People’s Republic of China so 
as to provide for an open and transparent 
system providing for effective end-use 
verification for such computers and, at a 
minimum, providing for on-site inspection of 
the end-use and end-user of such computers, 
without notice, by United States nationals 
designated by the United States Government. 
The President shall transmit a copy of 
the agreement to Congress. 
(b) DEFINITION.—As used in this section and 
section 1406, the term ‘‘high performance 
computer’’ means a computer which, by virtue 
of its composite theoretical performance 
level, would be subject to section 1211 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1998 (50 U.S.C. App. 2404 note). 
(c) ADJUSTMENT OF COMPOSITE THEORETICAL 
PERFORMANCE LEVELS FOR POST-SHIPMENT 
VERIFICATION.—Section 1213 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
1998 is amended by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(e) ADJUSTMENT OF PERFORMANCE LEVELS.—
Whenever a new composite theoretical 
performance level is established under section 
1211(d), that level shall apply for purposes 
of subsection (a) of this section in lieu 
of the level set forth in that subsection.’’. 

SEC. 1408. PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF EXPORT 
OF CONTROLLED TECHNOLOGIES 
AND ITEMS. 

(a) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PRIORITIZATION 
OF NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS.—The 
President shall submit to Congress the President’s 
recommendations for the establishment 
of a mechanism to identify, on a continuing 
basis, those controlled technologies 
and items the export of which is of greatest 
national security concern relative to other 
controlled technologies and items. 
(b) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT 
APPROVALS FOR EXPORTS OF 
GREATEST NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERN.— 
With respect to controlled technologies and 
items identified under subsection (a), the 
President shall submit to Congress the President’s 
recommendations for the establishment 
of a mechanism to identify procedures 
for export of such technologies and items so 
as to provide— 
(1) that the period for review by an executive 
department or agency of a license application 
for any such export shall be extended 
to a period longer than that otherwise required 
when such longer period is considered 
necessary by the head of that department or 
agency for national security purposes; and 

(2) that a license for such an export may be 
approved only with the agreement of each 
executive department or agency that reviewed 
the application for the license, subject 
to appeal procedures to be established 
by the President. 
(c) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR STREAMLINED LICENSING 
PROCEDURES FOR OTHER EXPORTS.— 
With respect to controlled technologies and 
items other than those identified under subsection 
(a), the President shall submit to 
Congress the President’s recommendations 
for modifications to licensing procedures for 
export of such technologies and items so as 
to streamline the licensing process and provide 
greater transparency, predictability, 
and certainty. 
SEC. 1409. NOTICE OF FOREIGN ACQUISITION OF 
UNITED STATES FIRMS IN NATIONAL 
SECURITY INDUSTRIES. 

Section 721(b) of the Defense Production 
Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 2170(b)) is amended— 

(1) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ before ‘‘The President’’; 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) 
as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; 
and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) Whenever a person engaged in interstate 
commerce in the United States is the 
subject of a merger, acquisition, or takeover 
described in paragraph (1), that person shall 
promptly notify the President, or the President’s 
designee, of such planned merger, acquisition, 
or takeover. Whenever any executive 
department or agency becomes aware of 
any such planned merger, acquisition, or 
takeover, the head of that department or 
agency shall promptly notify the President, 
or the President’s designee, of such planned 
merger, acquisition, or takeover.’’. 

SEC. 1410. FIVE-AGENCY INSPECTORS GENERAL 
EXAMINATION OF COUNTERMEASURES 
AGAINST ACQUISITION 
BY THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA OF MILITARILY SENSITIVE 
TECHNOLOGY. 

Not later than January 1, 2000, the Inspectors 
General of the Departments of State, 
Defense, the Treasury, and Commerce and 
the Inspector General of the Central Intelligence 
Agency shall submit to Congress a 
report on the adequacy of current export 
controls and counterintelligence measures to 
protect against the acquisition by the People’s 
Republic of China of militarily sensitive 
United States technology. Such report 
shall include a description of measures taken 
to address any deficiencies found in such export 
controls and counterintelligence measures. 


SEC. 1411. OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY SECURITY IN 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE. 

(a) ENHANCED MULTILATERAL EXPORT CONTROLS.— 
(1) NEW INTERNATIONAL CONTROLS.—The 
President shall work (in the context of the 
scheduled 1999 review of the Wassenaar Arrangement 
and otherwise) to establish new 
binding international controls on technology 
transfers that threaten international peace 
and United States national security. 
(2) IMPROVED SHARING OF INFORMATION.— 
The President shall take appropriate actions 
(in the context of the scheduled 1999 review 
of the Wassenaar Arrangement and otherwise) 
to improve the sharing of information 
by nations that are major exporters of technology 
so that the United States can track 
movements of technology and enforce technology 
controls and re-export requirements. 
(b) OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY SECURITY.—(1) 
There is hereby established in the Department 
of Defense an Office of Technology Security. 
The Office shall support United 
States Government efforts to— 

(1) establish new binding international 
controls on technology transfers that threaten 
international peace and United States national 
security; and 
(2) improve the sharing of information by 
nations that are major exporters of technology 
so that the United States can track 
movements of technology and enforce technology 
controls and re-export requirements. 
At the end of subtitle A of title XXXI (page 
419, after line 3), insert the following new 
section: 

SEC. 3106. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
CYBER SECURITY 
PROGRAM. 

(a) INCREASED FUNDS FOR COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
CYBER SECURITY.—The amounts provided 
in section 3103 in the matter preceding 
paragraph (1) and in paragraph (3) are each 
hereby increased by $8,600,000, to be available 
for Counterintelligence Cyber Security programs. 
(b) OFFSETTING REDUCTIONS DERIVED FROM 
CONTRACTOR TRAVEL.—(1) The amount provided 
in section 3101 in the matter preceding 
paragraph (1) (for weapons activities in carrying 
out programs necessary for national 
security) is hereby reduced by $4,700,000. 
(2) The amount provided in section 3102 in 
the matter preceding paragraph (1) of subsection 
(a) (for environmental restoration 
and waste management in carrying out programs 
necessary for national security) is 
hereby reduced by $1,900,000. 
(3) The amount provided in section 3103 in 
the matter preceding paragraph (1) is hereby 
reduced by $2,000,000. 
At the end of title XXXI (page 453, after 
line 15), insert the following new subtitle: 

Subtitle F—Protection of National Security 
Information 

SEC. 3181. SHORT TITLE. 

This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘National 
Security Information Protection Improvement 
Act’’. 

SEC. 3182. SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT 
ON ESPIONAGE BY THE PEOPLE’S 
REPUBLIC OF CHINA. 

(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—The President 
shall transmit to Congress a report, not less 
often than every six months, on the steps 
being taken by the Department of Energy, 
the Department of Defense, the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation, the Central Intelligence 
Agency, and all other relevant executive 
departments and agencies to respond to 
espionage and other intelligence activities 
by the People’s Republic of China, particularly 
with respect to the theft of sophisticated 
United States nuclear weapons design 
information and the targeting by the People’s 
Republic of China of United States nuclear 
weapons codes and other national security 
information of strategic concern. 
(b) INITIAL REPORT.—The first report under 
this section shall be transmitted not later 
than January 1, 2000. 
SEC. 3183. REPORT ON WHETHER DEPARTMENT 
OF ENERGY SHOULD CONTINUE TO 
MAINTAIN NUCLEAR WEAPONS RESPONSIBILITY. 


Not later than January 1, 2000, the President 
shall transmit to Congress a report regarding 
the feasibility of alternatives to the 
current arrangements for controlling United 
States nuclear weapons development, testing, 
and maintenance within the Department 
of Energy, including the reestablishment of 
the Atomic Energy Commission as an independent 
nuclear agency. The report shall describe 
the benefits and shortcomings of each 
such alternative, as well as the current system, 
from the standpoint of protecting such 
weapons and related research and technology 
from theft and exploitation. The President 


H3864 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

shall include with such report the President’s 
recommendation for the appropriate 
arrangements for controlling United States 
nuclear weapons development, testing, and 
maintenance outside the Department of Energy 
if it should be determined that the Department 
of Energy should no longer have 
that responsibility. 

SEC. 3184. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY OFFICE OF 
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE AND OFFICE 
OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Department of Energy 
Organization Act is amended by inserting 
after section 212 (42 U.S.C. 7143) the following 
new sections: 
‘‘OFFICE OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE 
‘‘SEC. 213. (a) There shall be within the Department 
an Office of Foreign Intelligence, 
to be headed by a Director, who shall report 
directly to the Secretary. 
‘‘(b) The Director shall be responsible for 
the programs and activities of the Department 
relating to the analysis of intelligence 
with respect to nuclear weapons and materials, 
other nuclear matters, and energy security. 
‘‘(c) The Secretary may delegate to the 
Deputy Secretary of Energy the day-to-day 
supervision of the Director. 
‘‘OFFICE OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
‘‘SEC. 214. (a) There shall be within the Department 
an Office of Counterintelligence, to 
be headed by a Director, who shall report directly 
to the Secretary. 
‘‘(b) The Director shall carry out all counterintelligence 
activities in the Department 
relating to the defense activities of the Department. 
‘‘(c) The Secretary may delegate to the 
Deputy Secretary of Energy the day-to-day 
supervision of the Director. 
‘‘(d)(1) The Director shall keep the intelligence 
committees fully and currently informed 
of all significant security breaches at 
any of the national laboratories. 
‘‘(2) For purposes of this subsection, the 
term ‘intelligence committees’ means the 
Permanent Select Committee of the House of 
Representatives and the Select Committee 
on Intelligence of the Senate.’’. 

(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
contents in the first section of that Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 212 the following new items: 
‘‘Sec. 213. Office of Foreign Intelligence. 
‘‘Sec. 214. Office of Counterintelligence.’’. 

SEC. 3185. COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM AT 
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL 
LABORATORIES. 

(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—The Secretary of 
Energy shall establish and maintain at each 
national laboratory a counterintelligence 
program for the defense-related activities of 
the Department of Energy at such laboratory. 
(b) HEAD OF PROGRAM.—The Secretary 
shall ensure that, for each national laboratory, 
the head of the counterintelligence program 
of that laboratory— 
(1) has extensive experience in counterintelligence 
activities within the Federal 
Government; and 
(2) with respect to the counterintelligence 
program, is responsible directly to, and is 
hired with the concurrence of, the Director 
of Counterintelligence of the Department of 
Energy and the director of the national laboratory. 
SEC. 3186. COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES 
AT OTHER DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 
FACILITIES. 

(a) ASSIGNMENT OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
PERSONNEL.—(1) The Secretary of Energy 
shall assign to each Department of Energy 
facility, other than a national laboratory, at 
which Restricted Data is located an individual 
who shall assess security and counterintelligence 
matters at that facility. 

(2) An individual assigned to a facility 
under this subsection shall be stationed at 
the facility. 
(b) SUPERVISION.—Each individual assigned 
under subsection (a) shall report directly to 
the Director of the Office of Counterintelligence 
of the Department of Energy. 
SEC. 3187. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY POLYGRAPH 
EXAMINATIONS. 

(a) COUNTERINTELLIGENCE POLYGRAPH PROGRAM 
REQUIRED.—The Secretary of Energy, 
acting through the Director of Counterintelligence 
of the Department of Energy, shall 
carry out a counterintelligence polygraph 
program for the defense activities of the Department 
of Energy. The program shall consist 
of the administration on a regular basis 
of a polygraph examination to each covered 
person who has access to a program that the 
Director of Counterintelligence and the Assistant 
Secretary assigned the functions 
under section 203(a)(5) of the Department of 
Energy Organization Act determine requires 
special access restrictions. 
(b) COVERED PERSONS.—For purposes of 
subsection (a), a covered person is any of the 
following: 
(1) An officer or employee of the Department. 
(2) An expert or consultant under contract 
to the Department. 
(3) An officer or employee of any contractor 
of the Department. 
(c) ADDITIONAL POLYGRAPH EXAMINA-
TIONS.—In addition to the polygraph examinations 
administered under subsection (a), 
the Secretary, in carrying out the defense 
activities of the Department— 
(1) may administer a polygraph examination 
to any employee of the Department or 
of any contractor of the Department, for 
counterintelligence purposes; and 
(2) shall administer a polygraph examination 
to any such employee in connection 
with an investigation of such employee, if 
such employee requests the administration 
of a polygraph examination for exculpatory 
purposes. 
(d) REGULATIONS.—(1) The Secretary shall 
prescribe any regulations necessary to carry 
out this section. Such regulations shall include 
procedures, to be developed in consultation 
with the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, for identifying and 
addressing ‘‘false positive’’ results of polygraph 
examinations. 
(2) Notwithstanding section 501 of the Department 
of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7191) or any other provision of law, 
the Secretary may, in prescribing regulations 
under paragraph (1), waive any requirement 
for notice or comment if the Secretary 
determines that it is in the national security 
interest to expedite the implementation of 
such regulations. 
(e) NO CHANGE IN OTHER POLYGRAPH AU-
THORITY.—This section shall not be construed 
to affect the authority under any 
other provision of law of the Secretary to administer 
a polygraph examination. 
SEC. 3188. CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS 
OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 
REGULATIONS RELATING TO 
THE SAFEGUARDING AND SECURITY 
OF RESTRICTED DATA. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 18 of title I of the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2271 et 
seq.) is amended by inserting after section 
234A the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. 234B. CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES FOR 
VIOLATIONS OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY REGULATIONS 
REGARDING SECURITY OF CLASSIFIED 
OR SENSITIVE INFORMATION OR DATA.— 

‘‘a. Any individual or entity that has entered 
into a contract or agreement with the 
Department of Energy, or a subcontract or 

subagreement thereto, and that commits a 
gross violation or a pattern of gross violations 
of any applicable rule, regulation, or 
order prescribed or otherwise issued by the 
Secretary pursuant to this subtitle relating 
to the safeguarding or security of Restricted 
Data or other classified or sensitive information 
shall be subject to a civil penalty of not 
to exceed $500,000 for each such violation. 

‘‘b. The Secretary shall include, in each 
contract entered into after the date of the 
enactment of this section with a contractor 
of the Department, provisions which provide 
an appropriate reduction in the fees or 
amounts paid to the contractor under the 
contract in the event of a violation by the 
contractor or contractor employee of any 
rule, regulation, or order relating to the 
safeguarding or security of Restricted Data 
or other classified or sensitive information. 
The provisions shall specify various degrees 
of violations and the amount of the reduction 
attributable to each degree of violation. 

‘‘c. The powers and limitations applicable 
to the assessment of civil penalties under 
section 234A shall apply to the assessment of 
civil penalties under this section.’’. 

(b) CLARIFYING AMENDMENT.—The section 
heading of section 234A of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
2282a) is amended by inserting ‘‘SAFETY’’ before 
‘‘REGULATIONS’’. 
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of 
sections in the first section of that Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 234 the following new items: 
‘‘234A. Civil Monetary Penalties for Viola


tions of Department of Energy 

Safety Regulations. 

‘‘234B. Civil Monetary Penalties for Violations 
of Department of Energy 
Regulations Regarding Security 
of Classified or Sensitive 
Information or Data.’’. 

SEC. 3189. INCREASED PENALTIES FOR MISUSE 
OF RESTRICTED DATA. 

(a) COMMUNICATION OF RESTRICTED DATA.— 
Section 224 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 
(42 U.S.C. 2274) is amended— 
(1) in clause a., by striking ‘‘$20,000’’ and 
inserting ‘‘$400,000’’; and 
(2) in clause b., by striking ‘‘$10,000’’ and 
inserting ‘‘$200,000’’. 
(b) RECEIPT OF RESTRICTED DATA.—Section 
225 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 2275) is amended by 
striking ‘‘$20,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$400,000’’. 
(c) DISCLOSURE OF RESTRICTED DATA.—Section 
227 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 2277) is amended 
by striking ‘‘$2,500’’ and inserting 
‘‘$50,000’’. 
SEC. 3190. RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO NATIONAL 
LABORATORIES BY FOREIGN 
VISITORS FROM SENSITIVE COUNTRIES. 


(a) BACKGROUND REVIEW REQUIRED.—The 
Secretary of Energy may not admit to any 
facility of a national laboratory any individual 
who is a citizen or agent of a nation 
that is named on the current sensitive countries 
list unless the Secretary first completes 
a background review with respect to 
that individual. 
(b) MORATORIUM PENDING CERTIFICATION.— 
(1) During the period described in paragraph 
(2), the Secretary may not admit to any facility 
of a national laboratory any individual 
who is a citizen or agent of a nation that is 
named on the current sensitive countries 
list. 
(2) The period referred to in paragraph (1) 
is the period beginning 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act and ending on 
the later of the following: 
(A) The date that is 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act. 
(B) The date that is 45 days after the date 
on which the Secretary submits to Congress 
a certification described in paragraph (3). 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3865 

(3) A certification referred to in paragraph 
(2) is a certification by the Director of Counterintelligence 
of the Department of Energy, 
with the concurrence of the Director of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, that all security 
measures are in place that are necessary 
and appropriate to prevent espionage 
or intelligence gathering by or for a sensitive 
country, including access by individuals 
referred to in paragraph (1) to classified 
information of the national laboratory. 
(c) WAIVER OF MORATORIUM.—(1) The Secretary 
of Energy may waive the prohibition 
in subsection (b) on a case-by-case basis with 
respect to any specific individual or any specific 
delegation of individuals whose admission 
to a national laboratory is determined 
by the Secretary to be in the interest of the 
national security of the United States. 
(2) Not later than the seventh day of the 
month following a month in which a waiver 
is made, the Secretary shall submit a report 
in writing providing notice of each waiver 
made in that month to the following: 
(A) The Committee on Armed Services and 
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
Senate. 
(B) The Committee on Armed Services and 
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the House of Representatives. 
(3) Each such report shall be in classified 
form and shall contain the identity of each 
individual or delegation for whom such a 
waiver was made and, with respect to each 
such individual or delegation, the following 
information: 
(A) A detailed justification for the waiver. 
(B) For each individual with respect to 
whom a background review was conducted, 
whether the background review determined 
that negative information exists with respect 
to that individual. 
(C) The Secretary’s certification that the 
admission of that individual or delegation to 
a national laboratory is in the interest of the 
national security of the United States. 
(4) The authority of the Secretary under 
paragraph (1) may be delegated only to the 
Director of Counterintelligence of the Department 
of Energy. 
(d) EXCEPTION TO MORATORIUM FOR CERTAIN 
INDIVIDUALS.—The moratorium under subsection 
(b) shall not apply to any person 
who— 
(1) is, on the date of the enactment of this 
Act, an employee or assignee of the Department 
of Energy, or of a contractor of the Department; 
and 
(2) has undergone a background review in 
accordance with subsection (a). 
(e) EXCEPTION TO MORATORIUM FOR CERTAIN 
PROGRAMS.—In the case of a program undertaken 
pursuant to an international agreement 
between the United States and a foreign 
nation, the moratorium under subsection 
(b) shall not apply to the admittance 
to a facility that is important to that program 
of a citizen of that foreign nation 
whose admittance is important to that program. 
(f) SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING BACKGROUND 
REVIEWS.—It is the sense of Congress 
that the Secretary of Energy, the Director of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the 
Director of Central Intelligence should ensure 
that background reviews carried out 
under this section are completed in not more 
than 15 days. 
(g) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section: 
(1) The term ‘‘background review’’, commonly 
known as an indices check, means a 
review of information provided by the Director 
of Central Intelligence and the Director 
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation regarding 
personal background, including information 
relating to any history of criminal 
activity or to any evidence of espionage. 
(2) The term ‘‘sensitive countries list’’ 
means the list prescribed by the Secretary of 
Energy known as the Department of Energy 
List of Sensitive Countries. 
SEC. 3191. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO ACCESS 
BY FOREIGN VISITORS AND EMPLOYEES 
TO DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 
FACILITIES ENGAGED IN DEFENSE 
ACTIVITIES. 

(a) SECURITY CLEARANCE REVIEW RE-
QUIRED.—The Secretary of Energy may not 
allow unescorted access to any classified 
area, or access to classified information, of 
any facility of the Department of Energy engaged 
in the defense activities of the Department 
to any individual who is a citizen of a 
foreign nation unless— 
(1) the Secretary, acting through the Director 
of Counterintelligence, first completes 
a security clearance investigation 
with respect to that individual in a manner 
at least as comprehensive as the investigation 
required for the issuance of a security 
clearance at the level required for such access 
under the rules and regulations of the 
Department; or 
(2) a foreign government first completes a 
security clearance investigation with respect 
to that individual in a manner that the Secretary 
of State, pursuant to an international 
agreement between the United States and 
that foreign government, determines is 
equivalent to the investigation required for 
the issuance of a security clearance at the 
level required for such access under the rules 
and regulations of the Department. 
(b) EFFECT ON CURRENT EMPLOYEES.—The 
Secretary shall ensure that any individual 
who, on the date of the enactment of this 
Act, is a citizen of a foreign nation and an 
employee of the Department or of a contractor 
of the Department is not discharged 
from such employment as a result of this 
section before the completion of the security 
clearance investigation of such individual 
under subsection (a) unless the Director of 
Counterintelligence determines that such 
discharge is necessary for the national security 
of the United States. 
SEC. 3192. ANNUAL REPORT ON SECURITY AND 
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE STANDARDS 
AT NATIONAL LABORATORIES 
AND OTHER DEFENSE FACILITIES 
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY. 

(a) REPORT ON SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
STANDARDS AT NATIONAL LABORATORIES 
AND OTHER DOE DEFENSE FACILITIES.—
Not later than March 1 of each year, 
the Secretary of Energy, acting through the 
Director of Counterintelligence of the Department 
of Energy, shall submit a report on 
the security and counterintelligence standards 
at the national laboratories, and other 
facilities of the Department of Energy engaged 
in the defense activities of the Department, 
to the following: 
(1) The Committee on Armed Services and 
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
Senate. 
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and 
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the House of Representatives. 
(b) CONTENTS OF REPORT.—The report shall 
be in classified form and shall contain, for 
each such national laboratory or facility, the 
following information: 
(1) A description of all security measures 
that are in place to prevent access by unauthorized 
individuals to classified information 
of the national laboratory or facility. 
(2) A certification by the Director of Counterintelligence 
of the Department of Energy 
as to whether— 
(A) all security measures are in place to 
prevent access by unauthorized individuals 
to classified information of the national laboratory 
or facility; and 
(B) such security measures comply with 
Presidential Decision Directives and other 
applicable Federal requirements relating to 
the safeguarding and security of classified 
information. 

(3) For each admission of an individual 
under section 3190 not described in a previous 
report under this section, the identity of 
that individual, and whether the background 
review required by that section determined 
that information relevant to security exists 
with respect to that individual. 
SEC. 3193. REPORT ON SECURITY 
VULNERABILITIES OF NATIONAL 
LABORATORY COMPUTERS. 

(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 
March 1 of each year, the National Counterintelligence 
Policy Board shall prepare a report, 
in consultation with the Director of 
Counterintelligence of the Department of 
Energy, on the security vulnerabilities of the 
computers of the national laboratories. 
(b) PREPARATION OF REPORT.—In preparing 
the report, the National Counterintelligence 
Policy Board shall establish a so-called ‘‘red 
team’’ of individuals to perform an operational 
evaluation of the security 
vulnerabilities of the computers of the national 
laboratories, including by direct experimentation. 
Such individuals shall be selected 
by the National Counterintelligence 
Policy Board from among employees of the 
Department of Defense, the National Security 
Agency, the Central Intelligence Agency, 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and 
of other agencies, and may be detailed to the 
National Counterintelligence Policy Board 
from such agencies without reimbursement 
and without interruption or loss of civil 
service status or privilege. 
(c) SUBMISSION OF REPORT TO SECRETARY OF 
ENERGY AND TO FBI DIRECTOR.—Not later 
than March 1 of each year, the report shall 
be submitted in classified and unclassified 
form to the Secretary of Energy and the Director 
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
(d) FORWARDING TO CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.—
Not later than 30 days after the report 
is submitted, the Secretary and the Director 
shall each separately forward that report, 
with the recommendations in classified 
and unclassified form of the Secretary or the 
Director, as applicable, in response to the 
findings of that report, to the following: 
(1) The Committee on Armed Services and 
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
Senate. 
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and 
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the House of Representatives. 
SEC. 3194. GOVERNMENT ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED 
INFORMATION ON DEPARTMENT OF 
ENERGY DEFENSE-RELATED COMPUTERS. 


(a) PROCEDURES REQUIRED.—The Secretary 
of Energy shall establish procedures to govern 
access to classified information on DOE 
defense-related computers. Those procedures 
shall, at a minimum, provide that each employee 
of the Department of Energy who requires 
access to classified information shall 
be required as a condition of such access to 
provide to the Secretary written consent 
which permits access by an authorized investigative 
agency to any DOE defense-related 
computer used in the performance of the defense-
related duties of such employee during 
the period of that employee’s access to classified 
information and for a period of three 
years thereafter. 
(b) EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY IN DOE DEFENSE-
RELATED COMPUTERS.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law (including 
any provision of law enacted by the Electronic 
Communications Privacy Act of 1986), 
no user of a DOE defense-related computer 
shall have any expectation of privacy in the 
use of that computer. 
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section: 

H3866 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE June 8, 1999 

(1) The term ‘DOE defense-related computer’’ 
means a computer of the Department 
of Energy or a Department of Energy contractor 
that is used, in whole or in part, for 
a Department of Energy defense-related activity. 
(2) The term ‘‘computer’’ means an electronic, 
magnetic, optical, electrochemical, 
or other high-speed data processing device 
performing logical, arithmetic, or storage 
functions, and includes any data storage facility 
or communications facility directly 
related to, or operating in conjunction with, 
such device. 
(3) The term ‘‘authorized investigative 
agency’’ means an agency authorized by law 
or regulation to conduct a counterintelligence 
investigation or investigations of 
persons who are proposed for access to classified 
information to ascertain whether such 
persons satisfy the criteria for obtaining and 
retaining access to such information. 

(4) The term ‘‘classified information’’ 
means any information that has been determined 
pursuant to Executive Order No. 12356 
of April 2, 1982, or successor orders, or the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, to require protection 
against unauthorized disclosure and 
that is so designated. 
(5) The term ‘‘employee’’ includes any person 
who receives a salary or compensation of 
any kind from the Department of Energy, is 
a contractor of the Department of Energy or 
an employee thereof, is an unpaid consultant 
of the Department of Energy, or otherwise 
acts for or on behalf of the Department of 
Energy. 
(d) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCEDURES.—Not 
later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Energy 
shall prescribe such regulations as may be 
necessary to implement this section. 
SEC. 3195. DEFINITION OF NATIONAL LABORATORY. 


For purposes of this subtitle, the term ‘‘national 
laboratory’’ means any of the following: 


(1) The Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, 
Livermore, California. 
(2) The Los Alamos National Laboratory, 
Los Alamos, New Mexico. 
(3) The Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, 
New Mexico. 
(4) The Oak Ridge National Laboratories, 
Oak Ridge, Tennessee. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 106th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 145 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JUNE 8, 1999 No. 80 

The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. on the 
expiration of the recess and was called 
to order by the President pro tempore 
[Mr. THURMOND]. 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Lloyd John 
Ogilvie, offered the following prayer: 

For the Lord God is a sun and shield; 
The Lord will be of grace and glory; 
No good thing will He withhold 
From those who walk upright. 

Holy Father, Source of strength, Author 
of the absolutes of morality, and 
the One to whom we are accountable, 
we renew our commitment to walk 
uprightly. We want to stand tall with 
steady eyes focused on Your irrevocable 
mandates for character and behavior. 
Our deepest desire is to walk 
with You, dear God, at Your pace, in 
Your timing, and toward Your goals. 
Help us not to run ahead of You or to 
lag behind. Only then can we hear what 
You have to say for each situation and 
relationship. May this be a sublime day 
of serenity because we have placed our 
hands in Your strong and guiding hand. 

We join our hearts in sympathy for 
Mrs. Joe Biden as she grieves the death 
of her father, Donald Jacobs. Comfort 
her with Your presence and hope. 
Through our Lord and Savior. Amen. 

f 


RECOGNITION OF THE ACTING 
MAJORITY LEADER 

The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
able acting majority leader is recognized. 


f 


SCHEDULE 

Mr. VOINOVICH. Mr. President, 
today the Senate will resume consideration 
of the defense appropriations bill 
with a vote ordered on the pending 
Grassley amendment to occur at 9:45 

a.m. As a reminder, first-degree 
Senate 

(Legislative day of Monday, June 7, 1999) 

amendments to the bill must be offered 
by 2:30 p.m. today. Therefore, additional 
amendments and votes are expected 
throughout today’s session, 
with the expectation of finishing the 
bill this evening. Cloture was filed on 
the motion to proceed to the Y2K legislation 
yesterday. Thus, a cloture vote 
will take place on Wednesday. 

I thank my colleagues for their attention. 


Mr. President, I note the absence of a 
quorum. 

The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
VOINOVICH). Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

f 


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 

APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2000 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate will now 
resume consideration of S. 1122, which 
the clerk will report. 

The legislative assistant read as follows:. 


A bill (S. 1122) making appropriations for 
the Department of Defense for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2000, and for other pur


poses. 

Pending: 

Stevens (for Grassley) amendment No. 540 
to reduce to $500,000 the threshold amount 
for the applicability of the requirement for 
advance matching of Department of Defense 
disbursements to particular obligations. 

AMENDMENT NO. 540 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, there will now be 15 
minutes of debate relative to the 
Grassley amendment No. 540 with a 
vote to follow thereon. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, do I 
control that 15 minutes? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
controls the time. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. I will not use all of 
that time for my amendment. 

First of all, as to the amendment 
that is pending, authored by the Senator 
from Iowa, I thank the Senator 
from Alaska for offering my amendment 
yesterday, and I thank the Senator 
from Alaska for asking for a roll-
call vote on my amendment, although 
this amendment has been offered 5 previous 
years and adopted 5 previous 
years without a rollcall. So, personally, 
I do not think it is necessary to 
have a rollcall vote. But if the chairman 
of the committee and the ranking 
member of the committee want such a 
rollcall vote, that is OK with me. So I 
will take then just a few minutes to 
speak about my amendment on matching 
disbursements with obligations. 

The American taxpayers would take 
for granted, they would expect, the 
nurturing of their tax dollars to be so 
well done at the Federal level that 
Congress would not have to pass a special 
amendment which would say that 
the Department of Defense cannot pay 
out $1 of taxpayers’ money without 
being able to match it with an invoice 
and contract that specified what goods 
or services they were buying. I hope in 
most of Government that is the case, 
but it has not been so with the Defense 
Department. In fact, I have been speaking 
for years on the subject of the tens 
of billions of dollars that have actually 
been spent, and at the time of payment, 
the department failed to match 
the particular service or goods that are 
being paid for with their corresponding 
contract. 

I have had the support of the chairman 
of the Appropriations Committee 
in setting in place policies that would 
gradually reduce the amount of money 
that could be paid out without an invoice 
and contract to match. This policy 
has been incorporated in the last 

· This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S6645 


S6646 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

five appropriations bills—fiscal years 
1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999. We are 
now working on the fiscal year 2000 appropriations 
bill. It is my understanding 
that the committee supports 
the amendment again this year. 

Under current law, the matching 
threshold is set at $1 million effective 
this month. This means that the Department 
of Defense disbursing officials 
must match each payment of $1 
million or more with a corresponding 
obligation or contract before the payment 
is made. My pending amendment 
would continue the process of 
ratcheting down the threshold began 5 
years ago. It would lower the threshold 
then from the $1 million in present law 
to $500,000. Reports of the General Accounting 
Office and inspectors general 
consistently show that this policy is 
helping to reduce DOD’s unmatched 
disbursement problems. As I understand 
it, the DOD has lowered the 
threshold to zero in most disbursing 
centers. 

I thank the Department of Defense 
for having adopted a policy that every 
taxpayer would assume is a principle of 
good Government management, and 
that is that they would not pay out one 
penny without being able to show what 
they ordered and received for that 
penny. That has become a policy at 
some of the disbursing centers but not 
at all the centers. So we want to see 
the threshold lowered to zero at all locations 
because we think it is just 
sound business management that not 
one penny of the taxpayers’ dollars 
should be paid out if there is not an invoice 
and contract for what has been 
bought and received, either goods or 
services, for that amount of money. 

So we are not quite at zero all over 
the country with all of the centers. 
Some Department of Defense disbursing 
centers still have problems. 
This amendment will help keep the 
pressure on and hopefully in time will 
help the Department of Defense eliminate 
in the future all unmatched disbursements, 
so that the Senator from 
Iowa will never have to come to the 
Senate floor again and say we have 
these billions of dollars that the Pentagon 
paid out and they have never 
been able to show exactly what they 
ordered and received. 

If the threshold specified in this 
amendment is unworkable, then I have 
asked the chairman to adjust the dollar 
level in conference, but I hope it is 
so obvious that we will be able to tell 
the taxpayers of this country that we 
know what they are buying; that at 
least for the next year we should keep 
the pressure on for the still fantastically 
high level of $500,000 that could 
be paid out under certain circumstances 
without the invoice and 
contract immediately available. 

I do not want to stand before the 
Senate and be embarrassed by saying 
that we can somehow justify even a 
$500,000 check being written without 
knowing what goods and services were, 
in fact, ordered and received and being 
paid for. 

I thank the chairman of the committee, 
Senator STEVENS, and I thank 
the ranking minority member, Senator 
INOUYE, for their continuing support of 
this amendment. Every year for the 
last 5 years I have offered this amendment, 
and every year for the last 5 
years they have put the amendment in 
the bill, kept it there and protected it 
in conference. This effort, particularly 
with their respected leadership in the 
area of defense, is very positive toward 
the Department of Defense changing 
their attitude about unmatched disbursements 
and leading us to a point 
where we are reducing the amount of 
unmatched disbursements. 

I thank the chairman and ranking 
member for their unwavering support, 
and I hope all my colleagues will support 
this simple but important amendment. 
I yield the floor. 

I have time left over, and if the Senator 
from Alaska wants some of my 
time, he can have it. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I will 
take a couple of minutes. 

I was pleased to offer this amendment 
for my good friend from Iowa, 
Senator GRASSLEY. Senator GRASSLEY’s 
determined effort to improve the 
Department of Defense financial accounting 
standards, by demanding that 
funds disbursed are matched by funds 
obligated—simply meaning that they 
balance their checkbook and they let 
us know so the taxpayers will know 
what the checks have been written 
for—his efforts has already yielded results 
in lowering the Department’s unmatched 
disbursements. 

To those who may be unfamiliar with 
this problem, as of the fiscal year 1998, 
according to the Department’s own inspector 
general, the Department reported 
a substantial problem with disbursements. 
That means that funds 
were reported having been disbursed to 
the Treasury but not processed, or, in 
other cases, the Department’s employees 
could not match a disbursement to 
an obligated item. 

There is a conflict here. We are trying 
to make certain those who provide 
services to the Department of Defense 
are promptly paid. On the other hand, 
there is a requirement for the taxpayers 
that we know what they have 
paid and what we have bought with the 
funds, as the Senator said. 

The Appropriations Committee is 
pleased to work with Senator GRASSLEY 
and the Department of Defense to 
ensure the Department makes steady 
progress in reducing these problem disbursements. 
I do support the amendment 
of the Senator from Iowa, and I 
believe all Senators seek to improve 
the Department’s control over the appropriation 
of taxpayers’ funds to the 
Department of Defense. 

What time will the vote take place, 
Mr. President? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alaska has 6 minutes remaining. 


Mr. STEVENS. I remind Senators 
that first-degree amendments to this 

bill must be offered by 2:30 p.m. Additional 
amendments and votes are expected 
through today’s session. My colleague 
and I are working on a package 
of amendments which we will submit 
as soon as this time has expired and 
this amendment has been voted upon. 
At least we will discuss this package. 
It is my hope we will be able to finish 
this bill today. I am going to work to 
achieve that goal. 

Does the Senator from Hawaii wish 
to make any comments on this amendment? 


Mr. INOUYE. No. 

Mr. STEVENS. How much time remains? 


Mr. GRASSLEY. I yield back my 
time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time 
has been yielded back. 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask for the yeas and 
nays, Mr. President. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The yeas and nays were ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, what 
time is the vote scheduled to take 
place? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. At 9:45. 

Mr. STEVENS. I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to amendment 
No. 540. The yeas and nays have been 
ordered. The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

Mr. NICKLES. I announce that the 
Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO), the 
Senator from Arizona (Mr. MCCAIN), 
and the Senator from Minnesota (Mr. 
GRAMS) are necessarily absent. 

Mr. REID. I announce that the Senator 
from Connecticut (Mr. DODD), the 
Senator from New York (Mr. MOYNIHAN), 
and the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. TORRICELLI) are necessarily 
absent. 

I also announce that the Senator 
from Delaware (Mr. BIDEN) is absent 
due to a death in the family. 

I further announce that, if present 
and voting, the Senator from New York 
(Mr. MOYNIHAN) would vote ‘‘aye.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BUNNING). Are there any other Senators 
in the Chamber desiring to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 93, 
nays 0, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 155 Leg.] 

YEAS—93 
Abraham Cochran Grassley 
Akaka Collins Gregg 
Allard Conrad Hagel 
Ashcroft Coverdell Harkin 
Baucus Craig Hatch 
Bayh Daschle Helms 
Bennett DeWine Hollings 
Bingaman Domenici Hutchinson 
Bond Dorgan Hutchison 
Boxer Durbin Inhofe 
Breaux Edwards Inouye 
Brownback Enzi Jeffords 
Bryan Feingold Johnson 
Bunning Feinstein Kennedy 
Burns Fitzgerald Kerrey 
Byrd Frist Kerry 
Campbell Gorton Kohl 
Chafee Graham Kyl 
Cleland Gramm Landrieu 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6647 

Lautenberg Nickles Smith (NH) 
Leahy Reed Smith (OR) 
Levin Reid Snowe 
Lieberman Robb Specter 
Lincoln Roberts Stevens 
Lott Rockefeller Thomas 
Lugar Roth Thompson 
Mack Santorum Thurmond 
McConnell Sarbanes Voinovich 
Mikulski Schumer Warner 
Murkowski Sessions Wellstone 
Murray Shelby Wyden 
NOT VOTING—7 
Biden Grams Torricelli 
Crapo McCain 
Dodd Moynihan 

The amendment (No. 540) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. BURNS. Mr. President, I move to 
reconsider the vote. 

Mrs. BOXER. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mrs. BOXER addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California is recognized. 

AMENDMENT NO. 541 
(Purpose: To substitute for section 8106 (re


lating to operational support aircraft) a requirement 
for a report) 
Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I send an 

amendment to the desk and ask for its 
immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from California [Mrs. BOXER], 
for herself, Mr. HARKIN, and Mr. WYDEN, proposes 
an amendment numbered 541. 

The amendment is as follows: 

Strike section 8106, and insert the following: 


SEC. 8106. Not later than March 1, 2000, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress 
a report on the inventory and status of 
operational support aircraft, Commander-in-
Chief support aircraft, and command support 
aircraft of the Department of Defense. The 
report shall include a detailed discussion of 
the requirements for such aircraft, the foreseeable 
future requirements for such aircraft, 
the cost of leasing such aircraft, commercial 
alternatives to use of such aircraft, 
the cost of maintaining the aircraft, the capability 
and appropriateness of the aircraft 
to fulfill mission requirements, and the relevancy 
of the missions of the aircraft to 
warfighting requirements. 

Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that my amendment 
be laid aside for further debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The amendment 
will be laid aside. 

Mr. BURNS. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
AMENDMENTS NOS. 542, 543, 544, AND 545, EN BLOC 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I 
would like to send to the desk a series 
of amendments which provide adjust


ments in the bill brought about by a 
review made by the Congressional 
Budget Office and the Office of Management 
and Budget. These amendments 
allocate funds in a different 
manner under the bill. 

The first change is an increase in 
funds for the Army Test Range Facilities 
Program. 

The second readjusts one account in 
the Navy, and moves $51.84 million into 
the Joint War Fighting Experimental 
Program, and leaves it under the control 
of Vice Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs reporting to the defense committees 
of the House and the Senate. 

The third will appropriate funds to 
meet the authorization bill’s provision 
of funds to assist the Red Cross in providing 
Armed Forces emergency services. 


The fourth is to deal with the addition 
of $10 million from cockpit modifications 
to the U2. 

I send them to the desk, and I ask 
unanimous consent that they be considered 
en bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska (Mr. STEVENS) 
proposes amendments numbered 542, 543, 544, 
and 545, en bloc. 

The amendments (Nos. 542, 543, 544, 
and 545), en bloc, are as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 542 

(Purpose: To provide funds for Research, 

Development, Test and Evaluation, Army) 

In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

‘‘SEC. . In addition to any funds appropriated 
elsewhere in Title IV of this Act 
under the heading ‘‘Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Army’’, $9,000,000 is 
hereby appropriated only for the Army Test 
Ranges and Facilities program element.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 543 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 
‘‘SEC. . Notwithstanding any other provision 
in this Act, the total amount appropriated 
in this Act for Title IV under the 
heading ‘‘Research, Development, Test, and 
Evaluation, Navy’’, is hereby reduced by 
$26,840,000 and the total amount appropriated 
in this Act for Title IV under the heading 
‘‘Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation, 
Defense-Wide’’, is hereby increased by 
$51,840,000 to reflect the transfer of the Joint 
Warfighting Experimentation Program: Provided, 
That none of the funds provided for 
the Joint Warfighting Experimentation Program 
may be obligated until the Vice Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff reports to 
the Congressional defense committees on the 
role and participation of all unified and specified 
commands in the JWEP.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 544 
(Purpose: To provide funding for the Amer


ican Red Cross Armed Forces Emergency 

Services program) 

In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

‘‘SEC. . In addition to the amounts appropriated 
or otherwise made available elsewhere 
in this Act for the Department of Defense, 
$23,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2000 is hereby appropriated to 
the Department of Defense: Provided, that 

the Secretary of Defense shall make a grant 
in the amount of $23,000,000 to the American 
Red Cross for Armed Forces Emergency 
Services.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 545 
At the appropriate place in the bill insert 
the following: 
‘‘SEC. . In addition to the funds available 
in Title III, $10,000,000 is hereby appropriated 
for U–2 cockpit modifications.’’ 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Hawaii. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I have 
had the opportunity to study these four 
amendments. They are authorized by 
the authorizing committee. I am in full 
support of them. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I urge 
adoption of the amendments en bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendments are agreed 
to. 

The amendments (Nos. 542, 543, 544, 
and 545), en bloc, were agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I move 
to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, we are 
working on a managers’ package. We 
have several amendments that we believe 
the Senate should include in such 
a package. I urge Members who have 
identified amendments they intend to 
offer to consult with my friend from 
Hawaii, myself, and our staffs to see if 
we can’t enlarge this package and take 
care of a series of items that are really 
not controversial during the time that 
we have a vehicle. 

As I have stated before, all amendments 
to this bill in the first degree 
must be introduced by 2:30 this afternoon. 


We stand ready to work with any 
Member on an amendment. This would 
be a good time for anyone who has an 
amendment that is controversial to 
come and offer it. So far, no one has 
volunteered to undertake that task. 
But pending a Member wishing to offer 
an amendment, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that when the Senate 
receives from the House of Representatives 
the companion bill to S. 
1122, the Senate immediately proceed 
to the consideration thereof; that all 
after the enacting clause be stricken 
and the text of S. 1122, as passed, be inserted 
in lieu thereof; that the House 
bill, as amended, be read for the third 
time and passed; that the Senate insist 
on its amendment, request a conference 
with the House on the disagreeing 
votes of the two Houses, and 


S6648 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

that the Chair be authorized to appoint 
conferees on the part of the Senate; 
and that the foregoing occur without 
any intervening action or debate. 

I further ask unanimous consent that 

S. 1122 not be engrossed and that it remain 
at the desk pending receipt of the 
House companion bill, and that upon 
passage of the House bill, as amended, 
the passage of S. 1122 be vitiated and 
the bill be indefinitely postponed. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


RECESS 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, we are 
working on the managers’ package, and 
to do this, we have to be off the floor. 
Therefore, I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate stand in recess until 

11:30 a.m. We hope Members will come 
and talk to us about this managers’ 
package in the event they want amendments 
in it. 
There being no objection, at 10:42 
a.m., the Senate recessed until 11:32 
a.m.; whereupon, the Senate reassembled 
when called to order by the Presiding 
Officer (Mr. ENZI). 

f 


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 

APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2000 

The Senate continued with the consideration 
of the bill. 

PRIVILEGE OF THE FLOOR 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
that Danelle Scotka, a fellow in 
the office of Senator HUTCHISON, be 
granted the privilege of the floor during 
consideration of S. 1122. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 547 
(Purpose: To set aside $63,041,000 of Air Force 

research, development, test, and evalua


tion funds for C–5 aircraft modernization) 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, at the 
request of the senior Senator from 
Delaware, Mr. BIDEN, I offer an amendment 
and ask that it be temporarily 
set aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Hawaii [Mr. INOUYE], for 
Mr. BIDEN, proposes an amendment numbered 
547. 

The amendment is as follows: 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, AIR FORCE’’, 
$63,041,000 shall be available for C–5 aircraft 
modernization. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and set aside. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

PRIVILEGE OF THE FLOOR 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that Ms. Sandi 
Dittig, on the staff of Senator GRAHAM 
of Florida, be granted full privileges of 
the floor during this debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 548 
(Purpose: To prohibit the use of refugee relief 
funds for long-term, regional develop


ment or reconstruction in Southeastern 

Europe) 

Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I send an 
amendment to the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative assistant read as follows: 


The Senator from New Hampshire [Mr. 
GREGG] proposes an amendment numbered 
548. 

Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that reading of the 
amendment be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

SEC. . PROHIBITION ON USE OF REFUGEE RELIEF 
FUNDS FOR LONG-TERM REGIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT OR RECONSTRUCTION 
IN SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE. 


None of the funds made available in the 
1999 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
Act (Public Law 106–31) for emergency 
support of refugees and displaced persons and 
the local communities directly affected by 
the influx of refugees may be made available 
to implement a long-term, regional program 
of development or reconstruction in Southeastern 
Europe except pursuant to specific 
statutory authorization enacted on or after 
the date of enactment of this Act. 

Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, the purpose 
of this amendment, which I will 
agree to have set aside whenever the 
chairman decides to do so, is to address 
the issue of the reconstruction of 
Kosovo and funds that might be spent 
in Kosovo for reconstruction. The concept 
of reconstruction, of course, is 
something that is going to have to be 
dealt with by the Congress and the 

President over the next few months, no 
matter what happens relative to the 
air war. 

One of the concerns I have, and I 
think many Americans have, is that 
America will end up paying a disproportionate 
cost of the reconstruction 
of Kosovo and potentially Yugoslavia. 
It is my opinion that no American 
funds should be spent for the reconstruction 
of Yugoslavia until 
Milosevic is removed as its leader. 

It is further my view that America’s 
participation in the cost of long-term 
reconstruction of Kosovo should be extremely 
limited, that our cost should 
be minor, a fraction of the amount of 
the cost of reconstruction, and that the 
vast majority of the burden of reconstruction 
should be borne by the European 
nations. 

As a nation, the United States has 
borne a disproportionate amount of the 
cost of the war that has gone on in 
Yugoslavia. It is, after all, a European 
issue more than an American issue. 
The United States had no national 
strategic interest in this part of the 
world. Not until the hundreds of thousands 
of refugees were created did we 
really have any significant interest at 
all in this part of the world; the refugees, 
of course, being a function of part 
of the diplomacy of this administration, 
which, in my opinion, has been a 
gross blunder in this region of the 
world. 

In any event, this is a European issue 
which should be addressed by the European 
nations. Certainly, the reconstruction 
issue is a European issue 
which should be addressed by the European 
nations, and American taxpayers 
should not be asked to bear the cost of 
it. 

What my amendment does is simply 
state that the emergency appropriations, 
which we eventually pass for 
purposes of fighting the war in Kosovo, 
will be limited in their application so 
they cannot be used for long-term 
structural reform of the economy or 
the capital needs of Kosovo, without 
the President coming to Congress and 
requesting those funds be used in that 
way and without him putting forward a 
strategic plan which reflects how much 
it is going to cost us as a nation to reconstruct 
the Kosovo infrastructure. 
Until we receive that plan and it is approved 
by the Congress, these funds 
would not be made available for that 
sort of effort. 

It does not limit these funds being 
used for humanitarian purposes. It does 
not limit these funds being used for the 
immediate needs of our own military, 
should our own military be interjected 
into Kosovo for some reason. It does 
not limit the funds being used for 
things such as replacing wells and getting 
people back in their homes with 
electricity temporarily. 

What it does limit is any long-term 
attempt to rebuild Kosovo’s infrastructure, 
which would be part of an overall 
plan for reconstruction, without us 
first getting such a plan and knowing 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6649 

how much it is going to cost the American 
taxpayers. I do think the administration 
has an obligation to be honest 
with the taxpayers and tell us exactly 
what they are really thinking we are 
going to have to pay in terms of costs. 

I have read news reports coming out 
of the European Union that suggested 
the European Union position is that 
the U.S. taxpayer should pay for half of 
the cost of the reconstruction of 
Kosovo. To me, that would be unacceptable. 
I have read other news reports 
from folks who work for our 
agencies saying the United States may 
be willing to pay up to 25 percent of the 
long-term cost of the reconstruction of 
Kosovo. We are talking about, potentially, 
5, 10, 15 years, with significant 
capital expenditures in that region of 
the world, and 25 percent would be a 
huge number. 

If that is the administration’s position, 
we need to know what that number 
is before we start down that road. 
This amendment is a minor attempt to 
keep us from starting down that road 
and to get the administration to be 
forthright as to what are these costs. 

Mr. STEVENS. Will the Senator 

yield? 

Mr. GREGG. Yes. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I will 
discuss this matter later, but I will say 
that the Senator’s amendment is consistent 
with my understanding of the 
purposes for which we passed the 1999 
supplemental. The moneys in that supplemental 
were for assistance to the 
refugees and for conducting the air 
war. It is my understanding that there 
was no money for the ground war, no 
money for the subsequent force—whatever 
it may be—that follows after the 
cessation of hostilities in that area. As 
the Senator stated, it would be for the 
long-term reconstruction and not for 
the temporary things that might be 
done to assist the Kosovo refugees to 
go back to their former homes. I think 
that will be probably something that 
will have to have money immediately, 
once we have a cessation of hostilities, 
which I pray will be very soon. 

I think this ought to be a marker 
that we put down that we want to see 
how these costs are going to be met in 
this area after the hostilities cease. 
The economy of the European Union 
now is greater than ours. Their employment 
picture is even better than 
ours. I don’t see any reason why there 
should be an assumption that we will 
carry on at the past level of expenditures. 
There is no question that the expenditures 
made in the war so far are 
overwhelmingly U.S. expenditures. I do 
not deny the participation of the NATO 
allies in the activities, but their costs 
are infinitesimal compared to ours 
when you view the long line that our 
supplies have to follow to get there and 
the cost of maintaining our forces 
there as compared to those who go 
home every night, in terms of the participants 
from the European Union. 

I hope the Senate will take a very 
careful look at the Senator’s sugges


tion. I want to make sure that it does 
not impede the activities of our forces 
to really provide for their own protection, 
as well as the facilities that will 
be needed by our people if they move 
into the area immediately after the 
cessation of hostilities. But I do think 
when we get to a long-range concept, a 
new Marshall Plan for this area, it is 
something that the Congress must be 
involved in, and the taxpayers must 
know what our share is going to be before 
we commence such activities. 

I urge the Senator to lay his amendment 
aside. 

Mr. GREGG. Mr. President, I believe 
my amendment is in sync with the 
opinions expressed by the chairman. I 
ask that my amendment be set aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. GREGG. I yield the floor. 

Mr. BYRD addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from West Virginia is recognized. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 549 AND 550, EN BLOC 

Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I send two 
amendments to the desk and ask for 
their immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from West Virginia [Mr. 

BYRD] proposes amendments numbered 549 
and 550, en bloc. 

The amendments are as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 549 
(Purpose: To set aside $10,000,000 of Operation 
and Maintenance, Defense-Wide 
funds for carrying out first-year actions of 
the 5-year research plan for addressing 

low-level exposures to chemical warfare 

agents) 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, 
DEFENSE-WIDE’’ for the Office of 
the Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary 
of Defense for Gulf War Illnesses, 
$10,000,000 shall be available for carrying out 
the first-year actions under the 5-year research 
plan outlined in the report entitled 
‘‘Department of Defense Strategy to Address 
Low-Level Exposures to Chemical Warfare 
Agents (CWAs)’’, dated May 1999, that was 
submitted to committees of Congress pursuant 
to section 247(d) of the Strom Thurmond 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1999 (Public Law 105–261; 112 Stat. 
1957). 

AMENDMENT NO. 550 
(Purpose: To increase by $10,000,000 the 
amount provided for the Army for other 
procurement for an immediate assessment 
of biometrics sensors and templates repository 
requirements, and for combining and 
consolidating biometrics security technology 
and other information assurance 

technologies to accomplish a more focused 

and effective information assurance effort) 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
III under the heading ‘‘OTHER PROCUREMENT, 
ARMY’’, $51,250,000 shall be available for the 
Information System Security Program, of 
which $10,000,000 shall be available for an immediate 
assessment of biometrics sensors 
and templates repository requirements and 
for combining and consolidating biometrics 

security technology and other information 
assurance technologies to accomplish a more 
focused and effective information assurance 
effort. 

Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I have an 
amendment at the desk. 

The Department of Defense operates 
over two million separate computers 
and 25,000 distinct computer systems to 
conduct its mission. These computer 
systems are integral parts of a wide variety 
of Department of Defense (DOD) 
programs. Many of these programs are 
critical to the direct fulfillment of 
military or intelligence missions; but 
other vital activities also affected include 
command and control, satellites, 
inventory and transportation management, 
medical equipment, payment of 
checks, and personnel records. 

The Department is now becoming 
aware that attacks on these systems 
may be capable of significantly affecting 
our military power, just as surely 
as a direct physical assault. Experience 
with ‘‘hackers’’ and DOD exercises indicate 
that defense systems, often globally-
linked and readily-accessed, are 
vulnerable to unauthorized penetration 
of their information networks. Newspapers 
have been filled with reports in 
recent days about ‘‘hackers’’ attacking 
the web sites of the FBI, the White 
House, the Department of Interior, and 
even the Senate. 

For example, I am told that by using 
unsophisticated ‘‘hacker tools,’’ intruders 
are able to crack systems passwords, 
establish super-user status (network 
control), search for and turn on 
microphones or cameras on personal 
computers connected to the installation 
campus area network. Hackers 
may then capture intra-office conversations 
and live video and download 
it to their computers. A simple test of 
the microphone sensitivity revealed 
low-level conversations were easily 
heard from roughly thirty feet away. 
This is particulary critical in areas 
where classified and sensitive information 
is stored and discussed. 

The compelling need for controlling 
access to our Nation’s vital information 
networks through computers becomes 
immediately evident when one 
considers just one battlefield scenario—
the possibility that one of our 
important command and control outposts 
on the ground is overrun by hostile 
forces. Just imagine what leverage 
that would provide to a computer-sophisticated 
enemy. And, I am told that 
the Department has learned from its 
experience in Kosovo that this kind of 
a threat is not limited to major world 
powers. 

At the present time, the basic process 
the Department relies upon to protect 
its computer systems are some 
kind of card and/or passwords including 
random characters. Users often are required 
to have several such cards or 
passwords in connection with their 
work. This approach to information security 
has some serious drawbacks for 
the long run. Passwords can be forgotten, 
shared, or observed, and cards can 


S6650 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

be lost, stolen, or duplicated. Moreover, 
as the need for even more security 
grows with advancing technology, 
the situation will become more cumbersome 
and less effective. On the 
other hand, more sophisticated means 
are expected to become available to 
make unwanted intrusions, necessitating 
even more complex password 
and card systems. 

There is an emerging technology 
available to the Department that 
promises to provide a more effective 
information security system, and that 
is biometrics. Almost everyone is familiar 
with fingerprints. Fingerprints 
are a biometric signature. Others are 
voice, face recognition, the iris of the 
eye, and keystroke dynamics or typing 
patterns; and I understand there are 
others as well. With this approach, access 
to a particular computer or network 
of computers is controlled by 
comparing one or several biometric 
signatures of the person asking to use 
the machine, with a template on file in 
a central location that contains the biometric 
identification of the authorized 
user of that computer. There is no 
card. There is no password. The test is 
whether the potential user is who he or 
she claims to be. The system authenticates 
a claimed identity from previously 
enrolled patterns or distinguishable 
traits. I understand that in 
the commercial world there are some 
examples of biometric identification 
already in use. Some ATM machines, 
for instance, now rely on iris signatures 
to permit access rather than the 
familiar card we all carry. 

The Army has a particular interest 
in developing an effective control over 
the access to its information systems 
through computers, because of the far 
flung nature of its forces, and because 
its battle systems are becoming increasingly 
dependent on information 
networks. 

This bill already includes $5.0 million 
in the Other Procurement, Army, appropriation 
for an initial biometrics 
computer information assurance system 
prototype project. I understand 
that the Army has exhibited strong 
leadership in the exploration and development 
of technologies in the biometrics 
arena, and is a natural leading 
candidate to be considered as the executive 
agent in this work for the Department 
of Defense and perhaps the 
federal government. The amendment I 
am offering is intended to respond to 
the immediacy of the critical information 
assurance requirement of the 
Army, and to build on the Army’s leadership 
role in biometrics technology. 
The amendment also builds on the biometrics 
prototype project to explore a 
more focused and synergistic effort to 
develop information assurance technology. 
Finally, it also builds on and 
anticipates a working relationship 
with the Criminal Justice Information 
Services Division of the FBI, which 
houses and operates the world’s finest 
single biometric data base—fingerprints. 
Specifically, my amendment 

provides an additional $10.0 million for 
an immediate assessment of biometrics 
sensors and templates repository requirements, 
and for combining and 
consolidating biometrics security technology 
and other information assurance 
technologies to accomplish a 
more focused and effective information 
assurance effort. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 

amendments will be laid aside. 

Mr. DORGAN addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair recognizes the Senator from 
North Dakota. 

Mr. DORGAN. Mr. President, I am 
not going to offer an amendment to 
this bill. In fact, I am a member of the 
subcommittee and I commend the Senator 
from Alaska, Mr. STEVENS, and 
the Senator from Hawaii, Mr. INOUYE, 
for their leadership and work on this 
legislation. I am pleased to work with 
them on a range of issues that deal 
with the defense of this country and 
with the strengthening of the Armed 
Forces. I think they do an excellent 
job. 

There is one area—and not just on 
this legislation—of the policy debate in 
Congress I wanted to mention during 
the discussion on funding, and that is 
the area of national missile defense. I 
do have some concerns about the policy 
and direction of national missile defense. 
I wanted to express them now because 
I think this is the appropriate 
place. 

I don’t quarrel with the question of 
research for national missile defense. 
We have been involved in a robust research 
program on missile defense. 
Hopefully, that research, at some 
point, will bear fruit sufficient that if a 
threat exists that would persuade us to 
deploy, we would deploy a national 
missile defense system that is a workable 
system and one that provides real 
and significant protection to our country. 


Last week—I think perhaps it was a 
week ago tomorrow—I was driving on a 
road up in far northeastern North Dakota. 
I looked to my left and I saw this 
huge concrete structure. It is, of 
course, the only antiballistic missile 
system that was ever built in the free 
world. It was built in the late 1960s, 
early 1970s. It was built in Nekoma, 
ND, up in the northeastern corner of 
our State. The very month it was declared 
operational it was also 
mothballed. Apparently, in today’s dollars, 
somewhere around $20 billion was 
spent. We still have the massive quantities 
of concrete poured into a building 
that looks very much like a mod-
ern-day pyramid up in the vast reaches 
of northeastern North Dakota. That is 
a legacy, I suppose, to the taxpayers 
who say sometimes you can have a 
very expensive program that doesn’t 
turn out quite the way you expected. 
Some will say, well, that program was 
just fine; it was a bargaining chip in 
arms control, and it was mothballed 
the very month it was declared operational 
because that was part of the 

strategic calculation of our country. Of 
course, that is not the case. 

I want to talk for a moment about 
the range of threats against our country. 
One of those threats is the threat 
of a terrorist nation, or an adversary, 
acquiring an intercontinental ballistic 
missile and affixing to the top of this 
missile a nuclear warhead and then firing 
that missile at the United States of 
America. If that should happen, do we 
want to have in place a national missile 
defense system to intercept it? Of 
course. The answer is yes, of course. 

What are the likely threats? I mentioned 
an intercontinental ballistic 
missile being acquired by a terrorist 
nation. But, it is far more likely that 
it would not be an intercontinental 
ballistic missile but a cruise missile; 
they are much more widely dispersed, 
and it would be much more easily acquired. 
That cruise missile would travel 
500 feet above the ground, at 500 or 
600 miles an hour, and would be 
launched from a barge, or a submarine, 
or a plane just off our shores. That is 
not going to be intercepted by a national 
missile defense system. 

Some say we are working on theater 
defense that will intercept cruise missiles. 
Yes, but that theater defense 
isn’t part of what is going to protect 
the perimeter of our country. It is far 
more likely that a terrorist nation 
would acquire a cruise missile. Is there 
a defense system against a cruise missile? 


It is far more likely a terrorist nation 
would, in fact, terrorize our country 
with a deadly vial of biological or 
chemical weapons that could cause the 
kind of chaos that nearly occurred in 
Japan a couple of years ago, where the 
right kind of deadly biological agents 
can kill thousands, hundreds of thousands, 
perhaps a million people. It is 
far more likely that a major U.S. city 
would be threatened by a suitcase 
bomb placed in the trunk of a rusty 
Yugo car on a New York City dock by 
a terrorist nation. That is far more 
likely than them acquiring a sophisticated 
intercontinental ballistic missile. 


The potential, for example, of an adversary 
such as Russia, which has substantial 
nuclear might, accidentally 
launching tubes full of missiles from a 
Russian submarine would not be defeated 
by the national missile defense 
system we are talking about because 
the system being discussed could only 
potentially defeat a handful of missiles, 
not an accidental launch of all 
the tubes of a Russian submarine. Only 
a handful of missiles could be intercepted 
by the missile defense system 
that is currently under discussion. 
That doesn’t suggest that we ought not 
consider it. But the question I ask is 
this: Consideration at what price and 
with what other consequences? 

First, as we begin to make decisions 
about a national missile defense system, 
I don’t think we ought to just 
throw money at the system. I think 
some who have an appetite for it say 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6651 

we should just keep pouring money in 
there and somehow a system will 
emerge that will protect our country. I 
think that would lead to a great deal of 
waste. 

Second, the debate we have about deploying 
a national missile defense system, 
as soon as technologically possible 
or feasible, is a debate that worries 
me, because it seems to suggest all 
of the consequences are less important 
and all of the consequences should be 
set aside. 

What are those other consequences? 
One is a program we now have under 
way with Russia in which we actually 
saw the wings off Russian bombers. We 
actually remove Russian missiles from 
their silos and remove the warheads 
from the missile. We are reducing in a 
dramatic way the number of missiles 
and bombers and the capabilities of delivering 
warheads aimed at this country. 


I have in this desk drawer a little 
vial which, with the consent of the Presiding 
Officer, I will show. This little 
vial of material is wiring that was 
ground up. It is from a Russian submarine 
that carried missiles aimed at 
the United States. That submarine is 
reduced to small pieces of metal. It is 
cut up. It doesn’t exist anymore. I have 
some of the wiring right here. 

How do we acquire the wiring of a 
Russian ballistic missile submarine? 
You could shoot it and destroy it. That 
is one way. Or, the other way is with 
an agreement between ourselves and 
the Russians to reduce weapons of 
mass destruction and the delivery capabilities 
of each side. We have seen 
submarines and bombers and nuclear 
warheads being systematically reduced 
in a very aggressive way. 

That is exactly what is happening 
here. That happens through the Nunn-
Lugar funds that are offered in this 
kind of legislation. It is a very important 
program. It has been remarkably 
successful. I do not want to, by what 
we are doing in other areas, jeopardize 
that kind of arms reduction and arms 
control. 

One other point, Mr. President: It is 
true that this is an increasingly difficult 
and dangerous world. North 
Korea is testing medium-range missiles. 
Iran is testing medium-range 
missiles. Pakistan and India do not 
like each other, and they exploded nuclear 
weapons right under each other’s 
nose. It is a difficult and dangerous 
world. 

I support research on missile defense. 
But I do not support efforts that would 
say let us demand deployment of any 
system as soon as technologically feasible, 
even if it is at the expense of injuring 
other efforts to reduce the proliferation 
of nuclear weapons, or to 
eliminate delivery systems of nuclear 
weapons under current arms control regimes. 


Some say the ABM Treaty is for a 
country that no longer exists, the old 
Soviet Union; don’t worry about it; ignore 
it. 

The fact is that we have made significant 
progress under our arms control 
agreements. I think we need to be very 
careful as we proceed down this road 
not to do one thing at the expense of 
others that we know will work. 

I only wanted to say again that the 
national missile defense program is one 
that I have provided support for by 
substantial amounts of research. I do 
worry sometimes that the amount of 
money offered is exceeding the amount 
of money the system is capable of 
using effectively. It is a difficult technology 
to hit a bullet with a bullet at 
intercontinental missile speeds. Some 
of my colleagues make the point that 
it is not one program, it is many programs 
in a seamless transition of dealing 
with suppression of missile threats 
in the theater, and also dealing with 
intercontinental ballistic missile 
threats. 

It is true that these programs represent 
a number of different kinds of 
programs. But the largest of them is 
the national missile defense program, 
commonly referred to as that, which 
would be deployed to defend against an 
intercontinental ballistic missile. Representing 
a State that has housed the 
only ABM or national missile defense 
program that was ever built in the 
Free World, I have some acquaintance 
with it. 

It is my hope that when and if this 
country deploys a system in the future, 
it not be done at the expense of arms 
control reductions that exist in other 
arms control agreements. That we not 
decide to focus so much on this issue 
that we do so at the expense of the 
nonproliferation efforts this country 
ought to have as job one. We ought to 
worry very much every day and in 
every way about efforts to prevent the 
proliferation and spread of weapons of 
mass destruction. 

I think there is a lot of evidence out 
there about which we need to be very 
concerned. Frankly, I think it has 
taken a back seat in recent years. I 
think it has taken a back seat in Congress 
and a back seat in the administration. 
I don’t think we have had 
nearly as much effort as I would feel 
comfortable with to try to combat the 
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 


There are not too many countries 
that have nuclear weapons at this 
point, but many countries want to acquire 
them. There is a black market in 
the weapons material and production 
of nuclear weapons. As all of those 
countries are seeking to acquire weapons 
of mass destruction, including nuclear 
weapons, I hope, as we discuss all 
of these issues, our country will understand 
that to prevent proliferation of 
these weapons, we should not just discuss 
national missile defense in a way 
that says it is more important than 
any other area. If we are to build a 
safer future for ourselves and our children, 
it must be a priority for us to say 
that the proliferation of nuclear weapons 
around the world is a very serious 

problem that this country ought to pay 
serious attention to, and it ought to 
command a substantial amount of our 
time. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor and I 
make a point of order that a quorum is 
not present. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 551 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I send 
an amendment to the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska (Mr. STEVENS), 
for Mr. NICKLES, proposes an amendment 
numbered 551. 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

‘‘None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this or any other act 
may be made available for reconstruction activities 
in the Republic of Serbia (excluding 
the province of Kosovo) as long as Slobodan 
Milosevic remains the President of the Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro).’’ 


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the amendment 
be set aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment will be set 
aside. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 552 THROUGH 573, EN BLOC 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I send 
to the desk a portion of the managers’ 
package that we have been working on. 
I will delineate each amendment, send 
them to the desk, and ask they be considered 
en bloc. 

The first is an amendment of Senator 
INHOFE pertaining to the Starstreak 
missile. The next is an amendment of 
Senator MACK, $6 million for advanced-
track acquisition; another amendment 
of Senator MACK, $3 million electronic 
propulsion systems; Senator MACK, $5 
million for the tropical remote sensing 
radar; an amendment of Senator 
BURNS, $6 million for pollution/waste 
systems, research and development; 
Senator MCCONNELL, $13 million for the 
MK–45, and $19 million for the Close In 
Weapon System. 

I have an amendment for $1.5 million 
for the Pallet-Loading System; Senator 
BENNETT, $1 million for the alternative 
missile engine; Senator HOLLINGS, $3 
million for the Environmental Pollution 
Preventive Initiative; Senator 


S6652 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

REID, $4.5 million for hot gas decontamination 
projects; Senator 
LIEBERMAN, $2 million for the Medical 
Informatics; Senator REID, $2.8 million 
for the K-Band Test Obscuration Pairing 
System; Senator KERREY, $2 million 
for recombinant vaccine research; 
Senator LAUTENBERG, an Army firefighting 
equipment amendment; Senator 
BIDEN, $3 million for advanced 
composite materials processing; Senator 
DOMENICI, $5 million for Army 
warfare analysis; Senator DOMENICI, 
$7.5 million for shield imaging; Senators 
WYDEN and SMITH, $4 million for 
laser fusion; an amendment of mine for 
$20 million for supersonic noise reduction; 
Senator LEAHY, JCETS reporting 
requirement; Senator SHELBY, $5 million 
for the DAU pilot program; Senator 
INOUYE, an amendment for training 
by the Center of Excellence for Disaster 
Management. 

As I indicated, these amendments are 
part of the managers’ group and I ask 
they be considered en bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the clerk will report the 
amendments by number. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS] 
for himself and Mr. INOUYE, and on behalf of 
other Senators, proposes en bloc amendments 
numbered 552 through 573. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I have 
studied the measures. I have no objection. 


Mr. STEVENS. These amendments 
have been cleared on both sides. I ask 
they be considered en bloc, passed and 
adopted en bloc, and the motion to reconsider 
be laid upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendments (Nos. 552 through 

573) agreed to en bloc are as follows: 
AMENDMENT NO. 552 

At the end of the general provisions, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . The Department of the Army is directed 
to conduct a live fire, side-by-side 
operational test of the air-to-air Starstreak 
and air-to-air Stinger missiles from the AH– 
64D Longbow helicopter. The operational 
test is to be completed utilizing funds provided 
for in this bill in addition to funding 
provided for this purpose in the Fiscal Year 
1999 Defense Appropriations Act (P.L. 105– 
262): Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Department is to 
ensure that the development, procurement 
or integration of any missile for use on the 
AH–64 or RAH–66 helicopters, as an air-to-air 
missile, is subject to a full and open competition 
which includes the conduct of a live-
fire, side-by-side test as an element of the 
source selection criteria: Provided further, 
That the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition 
& Technology) will conduct an independent 
review of the need, and the merits of 
acquiring an air-to-air missile to provide 
self-protection for the AH–64 and RAH–66 
from the threat of a hostile forces. The Secretary 
is to provide his findings in a report 
to the Defense Oversight Committees, no 
later than March 31, 2000. 

AMENDMENT NO. 553 

(Purpose: To authorize use of $6,000,000 of Air 
Force RDT&E funds (in PE 604604F) for the 
3–D advanced track acquisition and imaging 
system) 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, AIR FORCE’’, 
up to $6,000,000 may be made available for 
the 3–D advanced track acquisition and imaging 
system. 

AMENDMENT NO. 554 
(Purpose: To authorize use of $3,000,000 of Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, 

Navy funds for electronic propulsion systems) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 

the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, NAVY’’, up to 
$3,000,000 may be made available for electronic 
propulsion systems. 

AMENDMENT NO. 555 
(Purpose: To authorize use of $5,000,000 of 
Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, 
Defense funds for a ground proc


essing station to support a tropical remote 
sensing radar) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 

the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, 
DEFENSE,’’ up to $5,000,000 may be 
made available for a ground processing station 
to support a tropical remote sensing 
radar. 

AMENDMENT NO. 556 
(Purpose: To provide additional funding for 
research and development to reduce pollu


tion associated with industrial manufacturing 
waste systems) 
Insert at the appropriate place in the bill 

the following: 

‘‘SEC. . Of the funds made available under 
the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to 
$6,000,000 may be provided to the U.S. Army 
Construction Engineering Research Laboratory 
to continue research and development 
to reduce pollution associated with industrial 
manufacturing waste systems.’’ 

AMENDMENT NO. 557 
(Purpose: To correct the allocation of Navy 

operation and maintenance funds between 
two naval gun depot overhaul programs) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 

the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in title 
II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, 
NAVY,’’ up to $13,000,000 may be 
available for depot overhaul of the MK–45 
weapon system, and up to $19,000,000 may be 
available for depot overhaul of the Close In 
Weapon System. 

AMENDMENT NO. 558 
(Purpose: To provide additional funding for 
prototyping and testing of a water dis


tributor for the Pallet-Loading System Engineer 
Mission Module System) 
At the end of the general provisions, add 

the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in Title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY,’’ up to 
$1,500,000 may be available for prototyping 
and testing of a water distributor for the 

Pallet-Loading System Engineer Mission 
Module System. 

AMENDMENT NO. 559 

(Purpose: To designate funds for the 

development of alternate missile engines) 

At the appropriate place in the bill insert 
the following new general provision: 

SEC. . Of the funds provided under Title 
IV of this Act under ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST AND EVALUATION, AIR FORCE’’, up 
to $1,000,000 may be made available only for 
alternative missile engine source development. 


AMENDMENT NO. 560 
(Purpose: To set aside $3,000,000 of Army research, 
development, test, and evaluation 
funds for the National Defense Center for 

Environmental Excellence Pollution Pre


vention Initiative) 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriate in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to 
$3,000,000 may be made available for the National 
Defense Center for Environmental Excellence 
Pollution Prevention Initiative. 

AMENDMENT NO. 561 
(Purpose: To provide funds for a hot gas 
decontamination facility) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 
SEC. . Of the funds made available in Title 
IV of this Act under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, 
DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, DEFENSE-
WIDE’’, up to $4,500,000 may be made 
available for a hot gas decontamination facility. 


AMENDMENT NO. 562 
(Purpose: To support a DoD Center for 
Medical Informatics) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 
SEC. . Of the funds made available under 
the heading ‘‘DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM’’, up 
to $2,000,000 may be made available to support 
the establishment of a DoD Center for 
Medical Informatics. 

AMENDMENT NO. 563 
(Purpose: To increase funds for the K-Band 
Test Obscuration Pairing System) 
On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 
SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in Title 
III under the heading ‘‘PROCUREMENT, MARINE 
CORPS’’, up to $2,800,000 may be made 
available for the K-Band Test Obscuration 
Pairing System. 

AMENDMENT NO. 564 
(Purpose: To support recombinant vaccine 
recombinant vaccine research) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 
SEC. . Of the funds made available under 
the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST 
AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to $2,000,000 may 
be made available to continue and expand 
on-going work in recombinant vaccine research 
against biological warfare agents. 

AMENDMENT NO. 565 
(Purpose: To require conveyance of certain 

Army firefighting equipment at Military 

Ocean Terminal, New Jersey) 

At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) The purpose of this section is 
to provide means for the City of Bayonne, 
New Jersey, to furnish fire protection 
through the City’s municipal fire department 
for the tenants, including the Coast 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6653 

Guard, and property at Military Ocean Terminal, 
New Jersey, thereby enhancing the 
City’s capability for furnishing safety services 
that is a fundamental capability necessary 
for encouraging the economic development 
of Military Ocean Terminal. 

(b) The Secretary of the Army may, notwithstanding 
title II of the Federal Property 
and Administrative Services Act of 1949, convey 
without consideration to the Bayonne 
Local Redevelopment Authority, Bayonne, 
New Jersey, and to the City of Bayonne, New 
Jersey, jointly, all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the firefighting 
equipment described in subsection 
(c). 
(c) The equipment to be conveyed under 
subsection (b) is firefighting equipment at 
Military Ocean Terminal, Bayonne, New Jersey, 
as follows: 
(1) Pierce Dash 2000 Gpm Pumper, manufactured 
September 1995. 
(2) Pierce Arrow 100-foot Tower Ladder, 
manufactured February 1994. 
(3) Pierce HAZMAT truck, manufactured 
1993. 
(4) Ford E–350, manufactured 1992. 
(5) Ford E–302, manufactured 1990. 

(6) Bauer Compressor, Bauer–UN 12– 
E#5000psi, manufactured November 1989. 
(d) The conveyance and delivery of the 
property shall be at no cost to the United 
States. 
(e) The Secretary may require such additional 
terms and conditions in connection 
with the conveyance under this section as 
the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States. 
AMENDMENT NO. 566 
(Purpose: To provide $3,000,000 (in PE 62234N) 
for the Navy for basic research on advanced 
composite materials processing 
(specifically, resin transfer molding, vacu


um-assisted resin transfer molding, and co-
infusion resin transfer molding)) 
At the end of the general provisions, add 

the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, NAVY’’, up to 
$3,000,000 may be made available for basic research 
on advanced composite materials 
processing (specifically, resin transfer molding, 
vacuum-assisted resin transfer molding, 
and co-infusion resin transfer molding). 

AMENDMENT NO. 567 
(Purpose: To set aside $5,000,000 of Army 

RDT&E funds (in PE 605604A) for Information 
Warfare Vulnerability Analysis) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to 
$5,000,000 may be available for Information 
Warfare Vulnerability Analysis. 

AMENDMENT NO. 568 
(Purpose: To set aside $7,500,000 of Air Force 
RDT&E funds (in PE 603605F) for the GEO 

High Resolution Space Object Imaging 
Program) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, AIR FORCE’’, 
up to $7,500,000 may be made available for 
the GEO High Resolution Space Object Imaging 
Program. 

AMENDMENT NO. 569 
(Purpose: To set aside $4,000,000 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation of 
elastin-based artificial tissues and dye tar


geted laser fusion techniques for healing 
internal injuries) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to 
$4,000,000 may be available solely for research, 
development, test, and evaluation of 
elastin-based artificial tissues and dye targeted 
laser fusion techniques for healing internal 
injuries. 

AMENDMENT NO. 570 
(Purpose: To provide funds for supersonic 
aircraft noise mitigation research) 
In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 
SEC. . Of the funds made available in title 
IV of this Act for the Defense Advanced Research 
Projects Agency under the heading 
‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION, 
DEFENSE-WIDE’’, up to $20,000,000 
may be made available for supersonic aircraft 
noise mitigation research and development 
efforts. 

AMENDMENT NO. 571 
On line 22, page 97, insert the following: 

(d) REPORT.—Not more than 15 days after 
the exercise of any waiver under subsection 
(c), the Secretary of Defense shall submit a 
report to the congressional defense committees 
describing the extraordinary circumstances, 
the purpose and duration of the 
training program, the United States forces 
and the foreign security forces involved in 
the training program, and the information 
relating to human rights violations that necessitate 
the waiver. 
AMENDMENT NO. 572 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 
SEC. . From within the funds provided for 
the Defense Acquisition University, up to 
$5,000,000 may be spent on a pilot program 
using state-of-the-art training technology 
that would train the acquisition workforce 
in a simulated government procurement environment. 


AMENDMENT NO. 573 
(Purpose: To stipulate training activities of 

Center of Excellence for Disaster Manage


ment and Humanitarian Assistance) 

At the appropriate place in the bill add the 
following: 

SEC. . During the current fiscal year, 
under regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
of Defense, the Center of Excellence 
for Disaster Management and Humanitarian 
Assistance may also pay, or authorize payment 
for, the expenses of providing or facilitating 
education and training for appropriate 
military and civilian personnel of foreign 
countries in disaster management and 
humanitarian assistance: Provided, That not 
later than April 1, 2001, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report regarding the 
training of foreign personnel conducted 
under this authority during the preceding 
fiscal year for which expenses were paid 
under the section: Provided further, That the 
report shall specify the countries in which 
the training was conducted, the type of 
training conducted, and the foreign personnel 
trained. 

Mr. STEVENS. We have several other 
amendments we are trying to get 
agreed to. I plead with Members of the 
Senate to bring forth the amendments 
so we may study them and know the 
amendments that we will debate later 
today. It is my hope we will finish this 
bill this evening. 

Let me state for the information of 
Members of the Senate, this is not a 

military construction bill. This is the 
defense bill. Military construction 
items will be in a separate bill. That 
bill will be marked up by the Senate 
tomorrow. Members who have amendments 
concerning military construction 
at home or abroad should present 
those to the subcommittee for consideration 
at markup tomorrow. We have 
had some suggested amendments to 
this bill; we do not want those to come 
to this bill. This is not within the jurisdiction 
of the Defense Subcommittee. 
We will be forced to oppose 
any amendment that is offered that 
deals with military construction. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 574 
(Purpose: To authorize a project at Brooks 
Air Force Base, Texas, to evaluate meth


ods of improving efficiency in the oper


ation of military installations) 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, on behalf 
of Senator HUTCHISON, I send an 
amendment to the desk and ask that it 
be qualified. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mrs. HUTCHISON, proposes an amendment 
numbered 574. 

(The text of the amendment is printed 
in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Amendments 
Submitted.’’) 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment will be set aside. 

Mr. STEVENS. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that I be recognized 
as in morning business for 3 minutes. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTMENT OF 
JAMES HORMEL 

Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I was 
very surprised and disappointed to find 
that during our recess when we were 
not here, the President made a very 
controversial appointment of James 
Hormel to be U.S. Ambassador to Luxembourg. 
I believe it is something that 
should not be done. In fact, when I 
think of procedures, I look to a man I 
admire so much, Senator BOB BYRD 
from West Virginia. 

During a recess in 1985, President 
Reagan made several appointments. 


S6654 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

Senator BYRD said: The recess appointment 
power should not be used simply 
to avoid controversy or to circumvent 
the constitutional power and responsibility 
of the Senate. In several cases, 
Reagan’s recess appointments avoided 
serious and probing debate by the Senate 
on controversial issues. There is no 
evidence that the needs of government 
required any of these appointments to 
be made as recess appointments. 

Then Senator BYRD went on to give 
the history, as he always does in his 
very eloquent style, as to how the Constitution 
does provide for emergencies, 
for such things as appointments back 
in the 1800s when people were traveling 
and unable to get here or when something 
strategic is pending. In the case 
of James Hormel, certainly there is not 
anything strategic pending. 

For that reason, I am serving official 
notice today that I am going to do the 
same thing Senator BYRD did back in 
1985: I am putting holds on every single 
Presidential nomination. 

In the case of James Hormel, it is a 
little confusing to a lot of people as to 
why he became controversial. Yes, he 
is gay. That is not the reason for people 
opposing him. It is the fact that he 
is a gay activist who puts his agenda 
ahead of the agenda of America. 

I can recall when he made the statement 
when first nominated by the 
President: I wish the President had 
nominated me to be Ambassador to 
Norway, because if they have something 
on the ballot—same-sex marriages 
or something like that—I might 
be able to influence it. 

That, to me, demonstrated very 
clearly that he wanted to use this position 
to advance his own agenda and not 
the agenda of America. 

I hasten to say, I would have the 
same feelings about any other appointment 
on any other issue. If David Duke 
were appointed and came to the conclusion 
he was going to use his militia interests 
as his motivation and his agenda 
more than America’s agenda, I certainly 
would oppose that nomination 
in the same way. Notice is hereby 
served. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask for the regular 
order. 

f 


RECESS 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the hour of 12:30 
having arrived, the Senate stands in recess 
until the hour of 2:15 p.m. 
Thereupon, at 12:29 p.m., the Senate 
recessed until 2:15 p.m.; whereupon, the 
Senate reassembled when called to 
order by the Presiding Officer (Mr. SESSIONS). 


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2000 
The Senate continued with the consideration 
of the bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the hour of 2:15 having 
arrived, the Senator from Hawaii is 
recognized for 5 minutes; and under the 
previous order, at the hour of 2:20, the 
Senator from Alaska is to be recognized. 


Mr. GREGG addressed the Chair. 

Mr. INOUYE. I yield my time to my 
friend from New Hampshire. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from New Hampshire. 

AMENDMENT NO. 548, AS MODIFIED 

Mr. GREGG. I send a modification to 
the desk to amendment No. 548. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment is modified. 

The amendment, as modified, is as 
follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

SEC. . PROHIBITION ON USE OF REFUGEE RELIEF 
FUNDS FOR LONG-TERM REGIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT OR RECONSTRUCTION 
IN SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE. 


None of the funds made available in the 
1999 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
Act (Public Law 106–31) may be made 
available to implement a long-term, regional 
program of development or reconstruction in 
Southeastern Europe except pursuant to specific 
statutory authorization enacted on or 
after the date of enactment of this Act. 

Mr. GREGG. I yield the floor. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

PRIVILEGE OF THE FLOOR 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
that Commander Tom Bailey, a 
fellow serving on the staff of Senator 
COCHRAN, be allowed privileges of the 
floor during the debate on this bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 575 
(Purpose: To authorize $4,000,000 of Army research, 
development, test, and evaluation 
funds (in PE 60481A) to be used for the Ad


vanced Integrated Helmet System Pro


gram) 

Mr. STEVENS. I send an amendment 
to the desk for Senator GORTON and 
ask it be numbered and qualified. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. GORTON, proposes an amendment 

numbered 575. 

The amendment is as follows: 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in the 
title IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DE


VELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, 
$4,000,000 shall be made available for the Advanced 
Integrated Helmet System Program. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is laid aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 576 

Mr. STEVENS. I send an amendment 
to the desk for the distinguished majority 
leader and ask it be numbered 
and qualified. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. LOTT, proposes an amendment numbered 
576. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert: 

Office of Net Assessment in the Office of 
the Secretary of Defense, jointly with the 
United States Pacific Command, shall submit 
a report to Congress no later than 180 
days after the enactment of this Act which 
addresses the following issues: 

1. A review and evaluation of the operational 
planning and other preparations of 
the U.S. Defense Department, including but 
not limited to the U.S. Pacific Command, to 
implement the relevant sections of the Taiwan 
Relations Act since its enactment in 
1979. 
2. A review and evaluation of all gaps in 
relevant knowledge about the current and 
future military balance between Taiwan and 
mainland China, including but not limited to 
Chinese open source writings. 
3. A set of recommendations, based on 
these reviews and evaluations, concerning 
further research and analysis that the Office 
of Net Assessment and the Pacific Command 
believe to be necessary and desirable to be 
performed by the National Defense University 
and other defense research centers. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is laid aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 577 

Mr. STEVENS. I send an amendment 
to the desk for the Senator from New 
Mexico, Mr. DOMENICI, and ask that it 
be qualified. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. DOMENICI, proposes an amendment 
numbered 577. 

The amendment is as follows: 

On page 106, line 4, strike ‘‘The Communications 
Act’’ and insert ‘‘(a) The Communications 
Act of 1934’’. 

On page 107, between lines 4 and 5, insert 
the following: 

(b)(1) Not later than 15 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget and 
the Federal Communications Commission 
shall each submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report which shall— 

(A) set forth the anticipated schedule (including 
specific dates) for— 
(i) preparing and conducting the competitive 
bidding process required by subsection 
(a); and 
(ii) depositing the receipts of the competitive 
bidding process; 
(B) set forth each significant milestone in 
the rulemaking process with respect to the 
competitive bidding process; 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6655 

(C) include an explanation of the effect of 
each requirement in subsection (a) on the 
schedule for the competitive bidding process 
and any post-bidding activities (including 
the deposit of receipts) when compared with 
the schedule for the competitive bidding and 
any post-bidding activities (including the deposit 
of receipts) that would otherwise have 
occurred under section 337(b)(2) of the Communications 
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 337(b)(2)) if 
not for the enactment of subsection (a); 
(D) set forth for each spectrum auction 
held by the Federal Communications Commission 
since 1993 information on— 
(i) the time required for each stage of preparation 
for the auction; 
(ii) the date of the commencement and of 
the completion of the auction; 
(iii) the time which elapsed between the 
date of the completion of the auction and the 
date of the first deposit of receipts from the 
auction in the Treasury; and 
(iv) the dates of all subsequent deposits of 
receipts from the auction in the Treasury; 
and 
(E) include an assessment of how the 
stages of the competitive bidding process required 
by subsection (a), including preparation, 
commencement and completion, and 
deposit of receipts, will differ from similar 
stages in the auctions referred to in subparagraph 
(D). 
(2) Not later than October 5, 2000, the Director 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget and the Federal Communications 
Commission shall each submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees the report 
which shall— 
(A) describe the course of the competitive 
bidding process required by subsection (a) 
through September 30, 2000, including the 
amount of any receipts from the competitive 
bidding process deposited in the Treasury as 
of September 30, 2000; and 
(B) if the course of the competitive bidding 
process has included any deviations from the 
schedule set forth under paragraph (1)(A), an 
explanation for such deviations from the 
schedule. 
(3) The Federal Communications Commission 
may not consult with the Director in 
the preparation and submittal of the reports 
required of the Commission by this subsection. 
(4) In this subsection, the term ‘‘appropriate 
congressional committees’’ means the 
following: 
(A) The Committees on Appropriations, the 
Budget, and Commerce of the Senate. 
(B) The Committees on Appropriations, the 
Budget, and Commerce of the House of Representatives. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is laid aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 578 
(Purpose: To extend for a period of 3 years 

the Agriculture Export Relief Act of 1998 
and the India-Pakistan Relief Act of 1998) 
Mr. STEVENS. I send an amendment 

to the desk for Senator ROBERTS. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 
The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. ROBERTS, proposes an amendment 
numbered 578. 

The amendment is as follows: 
At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. EXTENSION OF AGRICULTURE EXPORT 
RELIEF ACT OF 1998 AND INDIAPAKISTAN 
RELIEF ACT OF 1998. 

(a) EXTENSION OF AGRICULTURE EXPORT RELIEF 
ACT OF 1998.—Section 2 of the Agriculture 
Export Relief Act of 1998 (Public Law 
105–194; 112 Stat. 627) is amended by striking 
‘‘September 30, 1999’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2002’’. 

(b) EXTENSION OF INDIA-PAKISTAN RELIEF 
ACT OF 1998.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 902(a) of the 
India-Pakistan Relief Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 
2799aa–1 note) is amended by striking ‘‘for a 
period not to exceed one year upon enactment 
of this Act’’ and inserting ‘‘for a period 
not to exceed September 30, 2002’’. 
(2) REPORT.—Section 904 of such Act is 
amended by striking ‘‘a one-year period described 
in section 902’’ and inserting ‘‘the 
first year following the date of enactment of 
this Act and annually thereafter’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the 
earlier of the date of enactment of this Act 
or September 30, 1999. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is laid aside. 

Mr. STEVENS. Does the Senator 
from Hawaii have any amendments? 

Mr. INOUYE addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from Hawaii. 

AMENDMENT NO. 579 
(Purpose: Relating to the conveyance of the 

remaining Army Reserve property at 

former Fort Sheridan, Illinois) 

Mr. INOUYE. I offer an amendment 
on behalf of Senator DURBIN on Fort 
Sheridan and ask that it be set aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Hawaii [Mr. INOUYE], for 
Mr. DURBIN, proposes an amendment numbered 
579. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to carry out any conveyance of land at 
the former Fort Sheridan, Illinois, unless 
such conveyance is consistent with a regional 
agreement among the communities 
and jurisdictions in the vicinity of Fort 
Sheridan and in accordance with section 2862 
of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1996 (division B of Public 
Law 104–106; 110 Stat. 573). 

(2) The land referred to in paragraph(1) is a 
parcel of real property, including any improvement 
thereon, located at the former 
Fort Sheridan, Illinois, consisting of approximately 
14 acres, and known as the 
northern Army Reserve enclave area, that is 
covered by the authority in section 2862 of 
the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 1996 and has not been conveyed 
pursuant to that authority as of the 
date of enactment of this Act. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is laid aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 580 
(Purpose: To express the sense of Congress 
regarding the accidental civilian casualties 
of live ammunition testing at Vieques, 

Puerto Rico, and actions to prevent a re


currence of such a tragic accident) 

Mr. INOUYE. I offer an amendment 
on behalf of Senator BINGAMAN on 
Vieques, Puerto Rico, and ask that it 
be numbered and set aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Hawaii [Mr. INOUYE], for 
Mr. BINGAMAN, proposes an amendment numbered 
580. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) Congress makes the following 
findings: 

(1) Congress recognizes and supports, as 
being fundamental to the national defense, 
the ability of the Armed Forces to test weapons 
and weapon systems thoroughly, and to 
train members of the Armed Forces in the 
use of weapons and weapon systems before 
the forces enter hostile military engagements. 
(2) It is the policy of the United States 
that the Armed Forces at all times exercise 
the utmost degree of caution in the testing 
of weapons and weapon systems in order to 
avoid endangering civilian populations and 
the environment. 
(3) In the adherence to these policies, it is 
essential to the public safety that the Armed 
Forces not test weapons or weapon systems, 
or engage in training exercises with live ammunition, 
in close proximity to civilian populations 
unless there is no reasonable alternative 
available. 
(b) It is the sense of Congress that— 
(1) there should be a thorough and independent 
investigation of the circumstances 
that led to the accidental death of a civilian 
employee of the Navy installation in 
Vieques, Puerto Rico, and the wounding of 
four other civilians during a live-ammunition 
weapons test at Vieques, including a reexamination 
of the adequacy of the measures 
that are in place to protect the civilian population 
during such testing and of the extent 
to which the civilian population at the site 
can be adequately protected during such 
testing; 
(2) the President should not authorize the 
Navy to resume live ammunition testing on 
the Island of Vieques, Puerto Rico, unless 
and until he has advised the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives that— 
(A) there is not available an alternative 
testing site with no civilian population located 
in close proximity; 
(B) the national security of the United 
States requires that the testing be carried 
out despite the potential risks to the civilian 
population; 
(C) measures to provide the utmost level of 
safety to the civilian population are to be in 
place and maintained throughout the testing; 
and 
(D) in the event that testing resumes, 
measures are to be taken to protect the Island 
of Vieques and the surrounding area 
from environmental degradation, including 
possible environmental harm, that might result 
from the testing of ammunition containing 
radioactive materials; and 
(3) in addition to advising committees of 
Congress of the findings as described in paragraph 
(2), the President should advise the 
Governor of Puerto Rico of those findings 
and, if the President decides to resume live-
ammunition weapons testing on the Island of 
Vieques, consult with the Governor on a regular 
basis regarding the measures being 
taken from time to time to protect civilians 
from harm from the testing. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is laid aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 581 

Mr. INOUYE. I offer an amendment 
for Senator INOUYE on native Hawaiians, 
and I ask to have that numbered 
and set aside. 


S6656 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment will be numbered and laid 
aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 582 
(Purpose: To authorize the use of up to 
$35,000,000 for the retrofitting and improvement 
of the current inventory of Patriot 

missiles to meet current and projected 

threats from cruise missiles) 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I offer 
an amendment for Senator KENNEDY on 
Patriot missiles, and I ask that it be 
numbered and set aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Hawaii [Mr. INOUYE], for 
Mr. KENNEDY, proposes an amendment num


bered 582. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 

the following: 

Of the funds appropriated in title III, Procurement, 
under the heading ‘‘MISSILE PROCUREMENT, 
ARMY’’, up to $35,000,000 may be 
made available to retrofit and improve the 
current inventory of Patriot missiles in 
order to meet current and projected threats 
from cruise missiles. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and laid aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 583 
(Purpose: To reduce funding for the National 
Missile Defense program by $200,000,000 and 

to increase funding for Army moderniza


tion programs by $200,000,000) 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I offer 
an amendment for Senator LEVIN on 
the National Missile Defense program, 
and I ask that it be numbered and set 
aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Hawaii [Mr. INOUYE], for 
Mr. LEVIN, proposes an amendment num


bered 583. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the end of the bill, add the following 

new section: 

SEC. . Notwithstanding any other provision 
in this Act, the total amount appropriated 
in Title IV of this act under Research, 
Development, Test, and Evaluation, 
Defense-Wide, is hereby reduced by 
$200,000,000: Provided, That not more than 
$836,555,000 of the funds provided under this 
Act may be obligated for National Missile 
Defense programs: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision in this 
Act, the total amount appropriated in this 
Act for Aircraft Procurement, Army is hereby 
increased by $56,100,000 for re-engining of 
the CH–47 helicopter; Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision in this 
Act, the total amount appropriated in this 
Act for Missile Procurement, Army is hereby 
increased by $98,400,000 for advance procurement 
of the Javelin missile; Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision in 
this Act, the total amount appropriated in 
this Act for Procurement of Weapons and 
Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army is hereby 
increased by $20,000,000 for procurement of 
the Field Artillery Ammunition Supply Vehicle; 
Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision in this Act, the total 
amount appropriated in this Act for Other 
Procurement, Army is hereby increased by 
$25,500,000 for procurement of SINCGARS radios. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and set aside. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 584 
(Purpose: To reduce amounts appropriated 

for unrequested, low-priority, unnecessary, 

and wasteful spending by $3,100,000,000) 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I have 2 
amendments to send to the desk. My 
understanding is, under the unanimous 
consent agreement, both of these 
amendments have to be proposed by 
the time of 2:30, so I send them at this 
time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Arizona [Mr. MCCAIN] 

proposes an amendment numbered 584. 

The amendment is as follows: 

Strike section 8108, and insert the fol


lowing: 

SEC. 8108. Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this Act, the total amount appropriated 
in this Act by titles III, IV, and VI is 
hereby reduced by $3,100,000,000, the reductions 
to be derived from appropriations as 
follows: 

(1) From Operation and Maintenance, 
Army, $27,000,000. 
(2) From Operation and Maintenance, 
Navy, $36,000,000. 
(3) From Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps, $10,200,000. 
(4) From Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force, $61,800,000. 
(5) From Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide, $78,900,000. 
(6) From Operation and Maintenance, 
Army National Guard, $53,500,000. 
(7) From Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard, $2,900,000. 
(8) From Aircraft Procurement, Army, 
$178,000,000. 
(9) From Procurement of Weapons and 
Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army, $26,400,000. 
(10) From Procurement of Ammunition, 
Army, $37,500,000. 
(11) From Other Procurement, Army, 
$135,500,000. 
(12) From Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 
$69,000,000. 
(13) From Weapons Procurement, Navy, 
$54,400,000. 
(14) From Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
Navy, $317,500,000. 
(15) From Other Procurement, Navy, 
$67,800,000. 
(16) From Procurement, Marine Corps, 
$54,900,000. 
(17) From Aircraft Procurement, Air Force, 
$164,500,000. 
(18) From Missile Procurement, Air Force, 
$25,400,000. 
(19) From Procurement of Ammunition, 
Air Force, $5,100,000. 
(20) From Other Procurement, Air Force, 
$53,400,000. 
(21) From Procurement, Defense-Wide, 
$73,000,000. 
(22) From National Guard and Reserve 
Equipment, $190,500,000. 
(23) From Research, Development, Test, 
and Evaluation, Army, $249,100,000. 
(24) From Research, Development, Test, 
and Evaluation, Navy, $288,700,000. 
(25) From Research, Development, Test, 
and Evaluation, Air Force, $263,300,000. 
(26) From Research, Development, Test, 
and Evaluation, Defense-Wide, $287,900,000. 
(27) From Defense Health Program, 
$226,200,000. 
(28) From Drug Interdiction and Counter-
Drug Activities, Defense, $61,600,000. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and laid aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 585 
(Purpose: To authorize the Secretary of Defense 
to waive certain domestic source or 

content requirements in the procurement 

of items) 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I send a 
second amendment to the desk, and I 
ask that it be numbered and set aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Arizona [Mr. MCCAIN] 

proposes an amendment numbered 585. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the end of the general provisions, add 

the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) Subject to subsection (c) and 
except as provided in subsection (d), the Secretary 
of Defense may waive any domestic 
source requirement or domestic content requirement 
referred to in subsection (b) and 
thereby authorize procurements of items 
that are grown, reprocessed, reused, produced, 
or manufactured— 

(1) inside a foreign country the government 
of which is a party to a reciprocal defense 
memorandum of understanding that is entered 
into with the Secretary of Defense and 
is in effect; 
(2) inside the United States or its possessions; 
or 
(3) inside the United States or its possessions 
partly or wholly from components 
grown, reprocessed, reused, produced, or 
manufactured outside the United States or 
its possessions. 
(b) For purposes of this section: 
(1) A domestic source requirement is any 
requirement under law that the Department 
of Defense must satisfy its needs for an item 
by procuring an item that is grown, reprocessed, 
reused, produced, or manufactured in 
the United States, its possessions, or a part 
of the national technology and industrial 
base. 
(2) A domestic content requirement is any 
requirement under law that the Department 
must satisfy its needs for an item by procuring 
an item produced or manufactured 
partly or wholly from components grown, reprocessed, 
reused, produced, or manufactured 
in the United States or its possessions. 
(c) The authority to waive a requirement 
under subsection (a) applies to procurements 
of items if the Secretary of Defense first determines 
that— 
(1) the application of the requirement to 
procurements of those items would impede 
the reciprocal procurement of defense items 
under a memorandum of understanding providing 
for reciprocal procurement of defense 
items that is entered into between the Department 
of Defense and a foreign country in 
accordance with section 2531 of title 10, 
United States Code; 
(2) the foreign country does not discriminate 
against items produced in the United 
States to a greater degree than the United 
States discriminates against items produced 
in that country; and 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6657 

(3) one or more of the conditions set forth 
in section 2534(d) of title 10, United States 
Code, exists with respect to the procurement. 
(d) LAWS NOT WAIVED.—The Secretary of 
Defense may not exercise the authority 
under subsection (a) to waive any of the following 
laws: 
(1) The Small Business Act. 
(2) The Javits-Wagner-O’Day Act (41 U.S.C. 
46–48c). 
(3) Sections 7309 and 7310 of title 10, United 
States Code, with respect to ships in Federal 
Supply Class 1905. 
(4) Section 9005 of Public Law 102–396 (10 
U.S.C. 2241 note), with respect to articles or 
items of textiles, apparel, shoe findings, 
tents, and flags listed in Federal Supply 
Classes 8305, 8310, 8315, 8320, 8335, 8340, and 
8345 and articles or items of clothing, 
footware, individual equipment, and insignia 
listed in Federal Supply Classes 8405, 8410, 
8415, 8420, 8425, 8430, 8435, 8440, 8445, 8450, 8455, 
8465, 8470, and 8475. 
(e) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER WAIVER AU-
THORITY.—The authority under subsection 
(a) to waive a domestic source requirement 
or domestic content requirement is in addition 
to any other authority to waive such requirement. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and set aside. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask the 
distinguished chairman when he would 
like me to address the issue of one 
amendment concerning reallocation of 
$3.1 billion. 

Mr. STEVENS. Could we wait until 
after 2:30? We are trying to get these in 
by the deadline, and then I will be 
happy to listen to the Senator’s comments. 


Mr. MCCAIN. I thank the chairman, 
and I yield the floor. 

AMENDMENT NO. 586 
(Purpose: To provide funds for continued re


search and development in Space Control 

Technology) 

Mr. STEVENS. I send an amendment 
to the desk for Senator SHELBY, and I 
ask that it be numbered and qualified. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. SHELBY, proposes an amendment 

numbered 586. 

The amendment is as follows: 

In Title IV, under Research, Development, 
Test, and Evaluation, Army, add the following: 


‘‘Of the funds appropriated for research, 
development, test and evaluation Army, up 
to $10 million dollars may be utilized for 
Army Space Control Technology.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and laid aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 587 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I have 
a parliamentary inquiry. As I understand 
it, amendments should be numbered 
and qualified now, and we still 
have a portion of the managers’ package 
to complete. Would it be in order 
for me to reserve a place now for the 
final portion of the managers’ amendment 
and just have an amendment 
numbered for that purpose at this 
time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. May I inquire now 
from the clerk what number will that 
be? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. No. 587. 

Mr. STEVENS. I thank the Chair, 
and I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 588 
(Purpose: To authorize the use of $220,000 for 
a study at Badger Army Ammunition 
Plant, Wisconsin, relating to environmental 
restoration and remediation at 

weapons and ammunition production fa


cilities) 

Mr. STEVENS. On behalf of the Senator 
from Hawaii, I send to the desk an 
amendment for Senator KOHL, and I 
ask that it be numbered and qualified. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. INOUYE, for Mr. KOHL, proposes an 
amendment numbered 588. 

The amendment is as follows: 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) Of the amounts appropriated 
by title II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION 
AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE’’, up to 
$220,000 may be made available to carry out 
the study described in subsection (b). 

(b)(1) The Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, shall carry 
out a study for purposes of evaluating the 
cost-effectiveness of various technologies 
utilized, or having the potential to be utilized, 
in the demolition and cleanup of facilities 
contaminated with chemical residue at 
facilities used in the production of weapons 
and ammunition. 

(2) The Secretary shall carry out the study 
at the Badger Army Ammunition Plant, Wisconsin. 
(3) The Secretary shall provide for the carrying 
out of work under the study through 
the Omaha District Corps of Engineers and 
in cooperation with the Department of Energy 
Federal Technology Center, Morgan-
town, West Virginia. 
(4) The Secretary may make available to 
other departments and agencies of the Federal 
Government information developed as a 
result of the study. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and laid aside. 

Mr. STEVENS. Again, Mr. President, 
for the benefit of all Senators, after 
2:30, no further amendments in the 
first degree will be in order; is that correct? 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
is correct. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 589 

(Purpose: To provide $3,800,000 (in PE 

0602315N) for polymer cased ammunition 

and to provide an offset) 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I send 
an amendment to the desk for Senators 
LOTT and COCHRAN, and I ask that it be 
qualified and set aside. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. LOTT and Mr. COCHRAN, proposes an 

amendment numbered 589. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill insert 

the following: 

SEC. . Of the total amount appropriated 
in this Act for RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT 
TEST AND EVALUATION, NAVY shall be 
increased by $3,800,000 to continue research 
and development on polymer cased ammunition. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and laid aside. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 590 
(Purpose: To set aside an additional $7,300,000 
for space launch facilities, for a second 

team of personnel for range reconfigura


tion to accommodate launch schedules) 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, on behalf 
of Senator GRAHAM, I send an 
amendment to the desk and ask that it 
be numbered and qualified. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. GRAHAM, proposes an amendment 
numbered 590. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) Of the funds appropriated in 
title II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND 
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE’’ (other than the 
funds appropriated for space launch facilities), 
$7,300,000 shall be available, in addition 
to other funds appropriated under that heading 
for space launch facilities, for a second 
team of personnel for space launch facilities 
for range reconfiguration to accommodate 
launch schedules. 

(b) The funds set aside under subsection (a) 
may not be obligated for any purpose other 
than the purpose specified in subsection (a). 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and laid aside. 

AMENDMENT NO. 591 
(Purpose: To provide for a study of the long 

term solutions to the removal of ordnance 

from the Toussaint River, Ohio) 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I send 
an amendment to the desk for Senator 


S6658 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

VOINOVICH, and I ask that it be numbered 
and qualified. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. VOINOVICH, proposes an amendment 

numbered 591. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 

the following new section: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in this 
Act under the heading ‘‘Operation and Maintenance, 
Army’’, up to $500,000 may be available 
for a study of the costs and feasibility of 
a project to remove ordnance from the Toussaint 
River. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendment is numbered and laid aside. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 592 THROUGH 601, EN BLOC 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I have 
a series of amendments that I ask be 
adopted at this time: A Bond-Santorum 
amendment, $4 million for MTAPP; 
Senator HELMS amendment, $5 million 
for visual display environmental research; 
Senator BYRD, $10 million for 
addressing exposure to chemical warfare 
agents; Senator BYRD, $10 million 
for biometrics; Senators ASHCROFT and 
BOND related to the B–2 bomber; Senator 
SMITH, $10 million for U–2 upgrades; 
Senator HARKIN, $6 million for 
Gulf War syndrome; Senator GRAMM, 
$17.5 million for the F–15 data link; and 
Senator COLLINS, $3 million for MK–43 
gun conversion; Senator INOUYE for 
Ford Island. I ask that these amendments 
be considered en bloc and adopted 
en bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendments will be considered 
en bloc. 

The clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS] 
proposes amendments numbered 592 through 
601, en bloc. 

The amendments are as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 592 
(Purpose: To set aside $4,000,000 for the Man


ufacturing Technology Assistance Pilot 

Program) 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, 
AIR FORCE’’, up to $4,000,000 may be 
made available for the Manufacturing Technology 
Assistance Pilot Program. 

AMENDMENT NO. 593 
(Purpose: To set aside $5,000,000 of Army 
RDT&E funds for visual display perform


ance and visual display environmental re


search and development) 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to 
$5,000,000 may be available for visual display 
performance and visual display environmental 
research and development. 

AMENDMENT NO. 594 
(Purpose: To increase by $10,000,000 the 
amount provided for the Army for other 
procurement for an immediate assessment 
of biometrics sensors and templates repository 
requirements, and for combining and 
consolidating biometrics security technology 
and other information assurance 

technologies to accomplish a more focused 
and effective information assurance effort) 
On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 

the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
III under the heading ‘‘OTHER PROCUREMENT, 
ARMY’’, $51,250,000 shall be available for the 
Information System Security Program, of 
which up to $10,000,000 may be made available 
for an immediate assessment of biometrics 
sensors and templates repository requirements 
and for combining and consolidating 
biometrics security technology and 
other information assurance technologies to 
accomplish a more focused and effective information 
assurance effort. 

AMENDMENT NO. 595 
(Purpose: To set aside $10,000,000 of Operation 
and Maintenance, Defense-Wide 
funds for carrying out first-year actions of 
the 5-year research plan for addressing 

low-level exposures to chemical warfare 
agents) 
On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 

the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, 
DEFENSE-WIDE’’ for the Office of 
the Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary 
of Defense for Gulf War Illnesses, up 
to $10,000,000 may be made available for carrying 
out the first-year actions under the 5year 
research plan outlined in the report entitled 
‘‘Department of Defense Strategy to 
Address Low-Level Exposures to Chemical 
Warfare Agents (CWAs)’’, dated May 1999, 
that was submitted to committees of Congress 
pursuant to section 247(d) of the Strom 
Thurmond National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105–261; 
112 Stat. 1957). 

AMENDMENT NO. 596 
(Purpose: To express the sense of Congress 
commending the men and women of White-
man Air Force Base, Missouri, for their on


going contributions to Operation Allied 
Force over Yugoslavia) 
At the end of the general provisions, add 

the following: 
SEC. 8109. (a) Congress makes the following 
findings: 

(1) The B–2 bomber has been used in combat 
for the first time in Operation Allied 
Force against Yugoslavia. 
(2) The B–2 bomber has demonstrated unparalleled 
strike capability in Operation Allied 
Force, with cursory data indicating that 
the bomber could have dropped nearly 20 percent 
of the precision ordnance while flying 
less than 3 percent of the attack sorties. 
(3) According to the congressionally mandated 
Long Range Air Power Panel, ‘‘long 
range air power is an increasingly important 
element of United States military capability’’. 
(4) The crews of the B–2 bomber and the 
personnel of Whiteman Air Force Base, Missouri, 
deserve particular credit for flying and 
supporting the strike missions against Yugoslavia, 
some of the longest combat missions 
in the history of the Air Force. 

(5) The bravery and professionalism of the 
personnel of Whiteman Air Force Base have 
advanced American interests in the face of 
significant challenge and hardship. 
(6) The dedication of those who serve in the 
Armed Forces, exemplified clearly by the 
personnel of Whiteman Air Force Base, is the 
greatest national security asset of the 
United States. 
(b) It is the sense of Congress that— 
(1) the skill and professionalism with 
which the B–2 bomber has been used in Operation 
Allied Force is a credit to the personnel 
of Whiteman Air Force Base, Missouri, 
and the Air Force; 
(2) the B–2 bomber has demonstrated an 
unparalleled capability to travel long distances 
and deliver devastating weapons payloads, 
proving its essential role for United 
States power projection in the future; and 
(3) the crews of the B–2 bomber and the 
personnel of Whiteman Air Force Base deserve 
the gratitude of the American people 
for their dedicated performance in an indispensable 
role in the air campaign against 
Yugoslavia and in the defense of the United 
States. 
AMENDMENT NO. 597 
In the appropriate page in the bill, insert 
the following: 
SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in title 
III under the heading ‘‘Aircraft Procurement, 
Air Force,’’ up to $10,000,000 may be 
made available for U–2 aircraft defensive system 
modernization. 

AMENDMENT NO. 598 
(Purpose: To set aside $25,185,000, the amount 
provided for research and development relating 
to Persian Gulf illnesses, of which 
$4,000,000 is to be available for continuation 
of research into Gulf War syndrome 
that includes multidisciplinary studies of 
fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome 
and $2,000,000 is to be available for expan


sion of the research program in the Upper 

Great Plains region) 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8104. Of the amount appropriated in 
title IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, DEFENSE-
WIDE’’, $25,185,000 shall be available 
for research and development relating to 
Persian Gulf illnesses, of which $4,000,000 
shall be available for continuation of research 
into Gulf War syndrome that includes 
multidisciplinary studies of fibromyalgia, 
chronic fatigue syndrome, multiple chemical 
sensitivity, and the use of research methods 
of cognitive and computational neuroscience, 
and of which up to $2,000,000 may be 
made available for expansion of the research 
program in the Upper Great Plains region. 

AMENDMENT NO. 599 
(Purpose: To set aside $17,500,000 for procure


ment of the F–15A/B data link for the Air 

National Guard) 

At the appropriate place in the bill insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the total amount appropriated 
in title III under the heading ‘‘AIRCRAFT 
PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE’’, up to $17,500,000 
may be made available for procurement of 
the F–15A/B data link for the Air National 
Guard. 

AMENDMENT NO. 600 
(Purpose: To increase funds for the MK–43 
Machine Gun Conversion Program) 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6659 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in Title 
III under the heading ‘‘WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, 
NAVY,’’ up to $3,000,000 may be made 
available for the MK–43 Machine Gun Conversion 
Program. 

AMENDMENT NO. 601 
At the appropriate place in the bill insert: 

SEC. . DEVELOPMENT OF FORD ISLAND, HAWAII. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—(1) Subject to paragraph 
(2), the Secretary of the Navy may exercise 
any authority or combination of authorities 
in this section for the purpose of developing 
or facilitating the development of Ford Island, 
Hawaii, to the extent that the Secretary 
determines the development is compatible 
with the mission of the Navy. 
(2) The Secretary may not exercise any authority 
under this section until— 
(A) the Secretary submits to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a master plan 
for the development of Ford Island; and 
(B) a period of 30 calendar days has elapsed 
following the date on which the notification 
is received by those committees. 
(b) CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY.—(1) The Secretary 
of the Navy may convey to any public 
or private person or entity all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to 
any real property (including any improvements 
thereon) or personal property under 
the jurisdiction of the Secretary in the State 
of Hawaii that the Secretary determines— 
(A) is excess to the needs of the Navy and 
all of the other Armed Forces; and 
(B) will promote the purpose of this section. 
(2) A conveyance under this subsection 
may include such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States. 
(c) LEASE AUTHORITY.—(1) The Secretary of 
the Navy may lease to any public or private 
person or entity any real property or personal 
property under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary in the State of Hawaii that the 
Secretary determines— 
(A) is not needed for current operations of 
the Navy and all of the other Armed Forces; 
and 
(B) will promote the purpose of this section. 
(2) A lease under this subsection shall be 
subject to section 2667(b)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, and may include such others 
terms as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States. 
(3) A lease of real property under this subsection 
may provide that, upon termination 
of the lease term, the lessee shall have the 
right of first refusal to acquire the real property 
covered by the lease if the property is 
then conveyed under subsection (b). 
(4)(A) The Secretary may provide property 
support services to or for real property 
leased under this subsection. 

(B) To the extent provided in appropriations 
Acts, any payment made to the Secretary 
for services provided under this paragraph 
shall be credited to the appropriation, 
account, or fund from which the cost of providing 
the services was paid. 
(d) ACQUISITION OF LEASEHOLD INTEREST BY 
SECRETARY.—(1) The Secretary of the Navy 
may acquire a leasehold interest in any facility 
constructed under subsection (f) as 
consideration for a transaction authorized 
by this section upon such terms as the Secretary 
considers appropriate to promote the 
purpose of this section. 
(2) The term of a lease under paragraph (1) 
may not exceed 10 years, unless the Secretary 
of Defense approves a term in excess 
of 10 years for the purpose of this section. 
(3) A lease under this subsection may provide 
that, upon termination of the lease 
term, the United States shall have the right 
of first refusal to acquire the facility covered 
by the lease. 

(e) REQUIREMENT FOR COMPETITION.—The 
Secretary of the Navy shall use competitive 
procedures for purposes of selecting the recipient 
of real or personal property under 
subsection (b) and the lessee of real or personal 
property under subsection (c). 
(f) CONSIDERATION.—(1) As consideration 
for the conveyance of real or personal property 
under subsection (b), or for the lease of 
real or personal property under subsection 
(c), the Secretary of the Navy shall accept 
cash, real property, personal property, or 
services, or any combination thereof, in an 
aggregate amount equal to not less than the 
fair market value of the real or personal 
property conveyed or leased. 
(2) Subject to subsection (i), the services 
accepted by the Secretary under paragraph 
(1) may include the following: 
(A) The construction or improvement of facilities 
at Ford Island. 
(B) The restoration or rehabilitation of 
real property at Ford Island. 
(C) The provision of property support services 
for property or facilities at Ford Island. 
(g) NOTICE AND WAIT REQUIREMENTS.—The 
Secretary of the Navy may not carry out a 
transaction authorized by this section 
until— 
(1) the Secretary submits to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a notification 
of the transaction, including— 
(A) a detailed description of the transaction; 
and 
(B) a justification for the transaction 
specifying the manner in which the transaction 
will meet the purpose of this section; 
and 
(2) a period of 30 calendar days has elapsed 
following the date on which the notification 
is received by those committees. 
(h) FORD ISLAND IMPROVEMENT ACCOUNT.— 
(1) There is established on the books of the 
Treasury an account to be known as the 
‘‘Ford Island Improvement Account’’. 
(2) There shall be deposited into the account 
the following amounts: 
(A) Amounts authorized and appropriated 
to the account. 
(B) Except as provided in subsection 
(c)(4)(B), the amount of any cash payment 
received by the Secretary for a transaction 
under this section. 
(i) USE OF ACCOUNT.—(1) Subject to paragraph 
(2), to the extent provided in advance 
in appropriation Acts, funds in the Ford Island 
Improvement Account may be used as 
follows: 
(A) To carry out or facilitate the carrying 
out of a transaction authorized by this section. 
(B) To carry out improvements of property 
or facilities at Ford Island. 
(C) To obtain property support services for 
property or facilities at Ford Island. 
(2) To extent that the authorities provided 
under subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, 
United States Code, are available to the Secretary 
of the Navy, the Secretary may not 
use the authorities in this section to acquire, 
construct, or improve family housing units, 
military unaccompanied housing units, or 
ancillary supporting facilities related to 
military housing at Ford Island. 
(3)(A) The Secretary may transfer funds 
from the Ford Island Improvement Account 
to the following funds: 

(i) The Department of Defense Family 
Housing Improvement Fund established by 
section 2883(a)(1) of title 10, United States 
Code. 
(ii) The Department of Defense Military 
Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund 
established by section 2883(a)(2) of that title. 
(B) Amounts transferred under subparagraph 
(A) to a fund referred to in that subparagraph 
shall be available in accordance 
with the provisions of section 2883 of title 10, 
United States Code, for activities authorized 
under subchapter IV of chapter 169 of that 
title at Ford Island. 

(j) INAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROPERTY 
MANAGEMENT LAWS.—Except as otherwise 
provided in this section, transactions under 
this section shall not be subject to the following: 
(1) Sections 2667 and 2696 of title 10, United 
States Code. 
(2) Section 501 of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11411). 
(3) Sections 202 and 203 of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949 (40 U.S.C. 483, 484). 
(k) SCORING.—Nothing in this section shall 
be construed to waive the applicability to 
any lease entered into under this section of 
the budget scorekeeping guidelines used to 
measure compliance with the Balanced 
Budget Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985. 
(l) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
2883(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end 
the following new subparagraph: 
‘‘(E) Any amounts that the Secretary of 
the Navy transfers to that Fund pursuant to 
section 2862(i)(3)(A)(i) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2000, subject to the restrictions on the use of 
the transferred amounts specified in that 
section.’’; and 

(2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end 
the following new subparagraph: 
‘‘(E) Any amounts that the Secretary of 
the Navy transfers to that Fund pursuant to 
section 2862(i)(3)(A)(ii) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2000, subject to the restrictions on the use of 
the transferred amounts specified in that 
section.’’. 

(m) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) The term ‘‘appropriate committees of 
Congress’’ has the meaning given that term 
in section 2801(4) of title 10, United States 
Code. 
(2) The term ‘‘property support service’’ 
means the following: 
(A) Any utility service or other service 
listed in section 2686(a) of title 10, United 
States Code. 
(B) Any other service determined by the 
Secretary to be a service that supports the 
operation and maintenance of real property, 
personal property, or facilities. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendments are agreed 
to. 

The amendments (Nos. 592 through 

601) were agreed to. 
Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I move 
to reconsider that action. 
Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 
Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, it is 
my understanding that the time has 
now arrived when no more first degree 
amendments will be cleared to be offered. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is 
correct. 

Mr. STEVENS. I inquire from the 
Senator from Arizona if he wishes to 
address the Senate at this time. 

I yield the floor. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona is recognized. 


S6660 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

AMENDMENT NO. 584 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this 
amendment restores $3.1 billion in operations 
and maintenance and procurement 
funding that is cut by section 108 
of the bill. It reduces various accounts 
to eliminate funding for low-priority, 
unnecessary and wasteful spending by 
an equal amount. The amendment 
doesn’t change the total amount for defense 
in this bill. It simply redirects 
the cuts to eliminate pork barrel 
spending rather than high-priority 
readiness and modernization funds. 

I find it staggering that the committee 
would cut funding for readiness 
and modernization by $3.1 billion when 
this bill contains nearly $5 billion in 
spending for unrequested, low-priority, 
unnecessary and wasteful spending programs 
that have not been scrutinized 
in the normal merit-based review process. 


Congress recently passed an emergency 
spending bill that contained 
nearly $11 billion in defense spending 
to pay for the costs of ongoing operations 
in Kosovo. I believe the administration 
request was around $5 billion. 
As the chairman of the committee 
stated on the floor yesterday, we will 
very likely need to act later this year 
on another supplemental bill to pay for 
continued offensive operations against 
Serbia or to enforce a peace agreement 
and protect the Kosovars who return 
home. 

Why, then, would we want to cut 
funding from this bill that would be 
needed to carry out these operations 
into the next fiscal year? 

Why wouldn’t we instead cut some of 
the $5 billion in pork barrel spending 
that has been put in this bill principally 
for the benefit of Members and 
their constituents? 

Here is the list of unrequested programs 
included in the bill that I have 
accumulated. 

I ask unanimous consent that this 
list of unrequested and unwanted 
projects be printed in the RECORD at 
this time. 

There being no objection, the list was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for 
fiscal year 2000, objectionable provisions 

[In millions of dollars] 

OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE 
Army 
Fort Wainwright utilidors ........... $7 
Air Battle Captain Helo. Flight 
Training Program ..................... 1.2 
Joint Assessment Neurological 
Examination Equip. .................. 1.5 
Army Conservation and Ecosystem 
Management ................. 3 
BOS-Dugway Proving Ground, 
Utah .......................................... 5 
UC–35A Basing and Sustainment 17.8 
Rock Island Bridge Repairs ......... 5 
Fort Des Moines—Historic OCS 
Memorial .................................. 2 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Continued 


Directive Report Language: Directs 
the Army to consider 
conveying firefighting equipment 
to the Bayonne Local 
Redevelopment Authority 
and the City of Bayonne; 

Recommends that Rock Island 
Arsenal be included as a priority 
facility for the Department’s 
Total Asset Visibility 
Implementation Plan. 

Navy 

Operational Meteorology and 

Oceanography ........................... 10 
Shipyard Apprentice Program ..... 12 
Ship Depot Operations Support, 

Phila. Naval Shipyard .............. 23 
Warfare Tactics PMRF facilities 

improvements ........................... 5 
UNOLS ......................................... 3 
Professional Development/Educa


tion Asia Pacific Ctr. ................ 1.7 
Barrow landfill ............................ 3 

Directive Report Language: Directs 
the Navy to establish a 
pilot program for purpose of 
verifying cost savings that 
can be achieved through the 
use of a west coast propeller 
overhaul facility. Specifies 
characteristics that result in 
one possible candidate site. 

Marine Corps 

Initial Issue ................................. 15 
NBC Defense Equipment .............. 1.1 

Air Force 

B–52 attrition reserve .................. 35 
Civil Air Patrol Corporation ....... 12.5 
University Partnering for Oper


ational Support ........................ 5 
TACCSF upgrades ........................ 10 
Eielson utilidors .......................... 9.9 
Tinker and Altus base repairs ..... 25 

Defense-Wide 

DoDDS Math Teacher Leadership 
Program .................................... .4 
Technology innovation and 
teacher education ..................... 5 
OEA; Fitzsimmons Army Hos


pital .......................................... 10 
Charleston Macalloy site ............. 10 
OSD; Pacific Disaster Center op


erations .................................... 4 
Clara Barton Center, Pine Bluff .. 1.3 
Jefferson Project ......................... 5 

Civil-Military Programs 

Youth Challenge .......................... 62.5 
Innovative readiness training ...... 20 
Starbase Youth Program ............. 6 

National Guard and Reserve 

Directive Report Language: The 
Committee encourages the 
Army Reserve to expend resources 
on the Modern Burner 
Unit. 

Distance Learning Project .......... 45 
Addtional full-time support tech


nicians ...................................... 26 
School house support ................... 10 
Project Alert ............................... 3.2 
Fort Belknap Training Range ..... 2 
Defense Systems Evaluation, 

White Sands Missile Range ....... 2.5 
PROCUREMENT 

Aircraft, Army 

UC–35 aircraft (5) ......................... 27 
UH–60 helicopter (11) .................... 175 
AH–64 helicopter mods ................. 45 
C–12 airplane mods ....................... 3 
Kiowa Warrior helicopter mission 

trainer ...................................... 6.6 
Kiowa Warrior switchable eyesafe 
laser rangefinder ....................... 2.6 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Con


tinued 
Aircraft survivability equipment: 
advanced threat infrared countermeasures/
common missile 
warning system ........................ 8.1 
Night Vision Imaging Systems .... 5 
Aircrew integrated systems ......... 8 
Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, 
Army 
Command and control vehicle ..... 6 
Heavy assault bridge mods .......... 15.5 
MK–19 automatic grenada launcher 
.............................................. 5 
Items less than $5 million ............ 15 
Ammunition Procurement, Army 
40mm CTG ................................... 8 
60mm mortar ............................... 9 
120mm HE mortar CTG ................ 3 
120mm WP smoke CTG ................ 5 
105mm CTG artillery ................... 10 
Wide area munitions .................... 10 
ARMS Initiative .......................... 14 
Other Procurement, Army 
Tactical trailers/dolly sets .......... 6 
Army Data Distribution System 15 
SINCGARS family ....................... 20 
AN/TTC–56 warfighter information 
network (ACUS) ................ 40 
Secure terminal equipment 
(ISSP) ....................................... 12.5 
Worldwide Technical Control Improvement 
Program (Multi-purpose 
Range Targetry Electronics) 
..................................... 5.1 
Information systems .................... 45 
LTWT Video reconnaissance system 
........................................... 1.5 
Firefinder radar system mods ..... 8.1 
Striker command and control 
system ...................................... 10 
LOGTECH Army Automatic Identification 
Technology (AIT) ..... 5 
Ribbon bridge equipment ............. 13.5 
Lightweight Maintenance Enclosure 
........................................... 3.2 
Water purification system ........... 3 
Combat medical support equipment 
......................................... 4 
Combat training centers support 
(incl. Ft. Polk) .......................... 10 
Improved moving target simulator 
upgrade program .............. 3.5 
Commercial Construction Equipment 
SLEP ............................... 8 
Aircraft Procurement, Navy 
F/A–18E/F advance procurement 
(6) .............................................. 14 
EA–6 aircraft transmitters .......... 25 
EA–6 night vision devises ............ 15 
SH–60 helicopter AQS–13F ........... 7.5 
UH–1 helicopter infrared radar 
system ...................................... 10 
UH–1 helicopter engine torque 
pressure system ........................ 2.5 
P–3 aircraft AIP kits ................... 24.2 
C–2A aircraft propeller ................ 5 
Common ground equipment direct 
support sqdrn, readiness 
training .................................... 3 
High Pressure Pure Air Generator 2.5 
Weapons Procurement, Navy 
BQM–74 aerial targets .................. 30 
Improved tactical air launched 
decoy (ITALD) .......................... 20 
Weapons industrial facilities ....... 7.7 
MK–45 gun mount mods ............... 28 
Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy 
LHD–8 advance procurement ....... 500 
Other Procurement, Navy 
Other navigation equipment ........ 19 
Items less than $5 million (Distance 
Learning) ........................ 6.5 
AN/BPS–15H surface search radar 8 
AN/SPS–73 radar .......................... 8 
SSN acoustics .............................. 2.6 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6661 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Con


tinued 
JEDMICS ..................................... 9 
Information Systems Security 
Program (ISSP) ........................ 3.5 
Passive sonobuoys ....................... 3 
AN/SSQ–62 ................................... 3 
AN-SSQ–101 .................................. 3 
Weapons Range Support Equipment 
......................................... 11 
Retrofit OMNI IV/V night vision 
goggles ...................................... 18.1 
NULKA anti-ship missile decoy ... 12 
Procurement, Marine Corps 
LAV mortar test program sets .... 4 
Tracked vehicle modification 
kits ........................................... 60.5 
K-Band test obscuration pairing 
system ...................................... 2 
Radio systems .............................. 10 
D–7G bulldozer ............................. 10 
Aircraft Procurement, Air Force 
F–16C/D (2) ................................... 50 
F–16C/D advance procurement (12) 24 
EC–130J (1) ................................... 87.8 
C–130J spares and mods ................ 24.2 
F–15 E-Kit engine upgrades for 
Air National Guard ................... 20 
F–16 fuel tanks; oxygen generating 
systems; digital terrain 
system; theater airborne recon. 
system ...................................... 34.5 
C–17 maintenance trainer ............ 3.5 
C–12 spare parts ........................... 5 
Common support equip.: multi-
platform boresight equip .......... 10 
Missile Procurement, Air Force 
Minuteman III mods .................... 40 
Ammunition Procurement, Air Force 
Sensor Fuzed Weapon .................. 8 
Other Procurement, Air Force 
Combat training ranges: unmanned 
treat emitter ............... 28 
C3 countermeasures ..................... 5 
Theater Deployable Communication 
........................................... 35 
Radio equipment .......................... 3.7 
Laser eye protection .................... 2.4 
Mechanized material handling 
equipment ................................. 10 
Procurement, Defense-Wide 
Automatic Document Conversion 
System ...................................... 50 
Patriot PAC-3 procurement ......... 60 
Chemical decontamination .......... 5 
National Guard and Reserve 
equipment ................................. 300 
RDTE ARMY 
Defense Research Sciences: Cold 
Regions Military Eng. .............. 1.0 
University and Industry Research 
Centers: 
Basic Research In Counter Terrorism 
.................................... 15.0 
Electro And Hyper Velocity 
Physics Research ................... 3.0 
Advanced And Interactive Displays 
...................................... 1.3 
National Automotive Center ....... 3.0 
Materials Technology: AAN Materials 
....................................... 2.5 
Missile Technology: 
Scramjet Technologies ............. 2.0 
Computational Fluid Dynamics 9.2 
Modeling and Simulation Technology: 
Photonics ..................... 5.0 
Combat Vehicle and Automotive 
Technology: 
‘‘Smart Truck’’ Initiative ........ 3.5 
Alternative Vehicle Propulsion 10.0 
Chemical, Smoke, and Equipment 
Defeating Technology: Optical 
Spectroscopy ............................ 2.0 
Electronics and Electronic Devices: 
Hybrid Fuel Cell ....................... 1.5 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Continued 


Improved High Rate Alkaline 
Cell ........................................ 1.0 
Low Cost Reusable Alkaline 

Manganese-Zinc ..................... 1.4 
Re-Usable Coin Cells ................. 0.6 
Lithium Carbon Monoflouride 

Coin Cells ............................... 0.4 
‘‘AA’’ Zinc Air Battery ............. 0.7 
Countermine Systems: Nonlinear 
Acoustic Technology ................ 1.0 

Human Factors Engineering 
Technology: Emergency Medical 
Team Coordination ............ 3.4 

Environmental Quality Technology: 
Plasma Energy Pyrolysis System 
(PEPS) ............................ 8.0 
Phyto-Remediation In Arid 
Lands ..................................... 3.0 
Texas Regional Institute for 
Env. Studies .......................... 1.0 
Military Engineering Technology: 
University Partnering For Ops 
Support .................................. 3.0 
Cold Regions R&D .................... 1.3 
Medical Technology: 
Disaster Relief And Emergency 
Medical Services .................... 5.0 
Center For Innovative Minimally 
Invasive Therapy ......... 10.0 
Osteoporosis And Bone Disease 2.5 
Medical Advanced Technology: 
Center For Prostate Disease 
Research WRAMC .................. 7.5 
Intravenous Membrane 

Oxygenator ............................ 1.0 
Volume Angio CAT ................... 6.0 
Joint Diabetes Project ............. 10.0 

Combat Vehicle and Automotive 
Advanced Technology: 
Future Combat Vehicle Development 
................................... 5.0 
Improved HMMWV Research .... 8.0 

Command, Control, Communications 
Advanced Technology: Innovative 
Sensor Enhancement 
And Integration ........................ 10.0 

Manpower, Personnel and Training 
Advanced Technology: 
Army Aircrew Coordination 
Training .................................... 3.0 

Missile and Rocket Advanced 
Technology: Future Missile 
Technology Integration (FMTI) 5.0 

Joint Service Small Arms Program: 
Objective Crew Served 
Weapon (OCSW) ........................ 5.0 

Advanced Tactical Computer 
Science and Sensor Technology: 
Digital Situation Mapboard ..... 2.0 

Army Missile Defense Systems 
Integration (DEM/VAL): 
Missile Defense Flight Experi


ment Support ......................... 14.7 
Tactical High Energy Laser ..... 15.0 
Acoustic Technology Research 4.0 
Radar Power Technology .......... 4.0 
Family Of Systems Simulators 

(Fossim) ................................. 1.5 
Small Fast ChemBio Detectors 1.0 
SMDC Battlelab ........................ 5.0 

Armament Enhancement Initiative: 
XM 1007 Precision Guided 
Kinetic Energy Munition .......... 15.0 

Aviation—Adv Dev: Virtual Cockpit 
Optimization ....................... 5.0 
Medical Systems—Adv Dev: Combat 
Trauma Patient Simulation 5.8 
EW Development: ATIRCMS/ 
CMWS ....................................... 4.0 
Brilliant Anti-Armor Submunition 
(BAT): TACMS 2000 ........... 10.0 
Joint Surveillance/Target Attack 
Radar System: JSTARS ........... 10.0 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Continued 


Weapons and Munitions—Eng 
Dev: 
Motar Anti-Personnel/Anti-Material 
(MAPAM) ..................... 7.2 
50 Caliber Quick Change Barrels 2.0 
Sense and Destroy Armament 

Missile: Program Increase ........ 10.0 
Firefinder: TBM Cueing ............... 7.9 
Threat Simulator Development: 

Threat EO/IR Simulator ........... 2.5 
Threat Mine Simulator ............ 1.2 
Virtual Threat Simulator ......... 4.0 

Concepts Experimentation Program: 
Digital Information 
Technology Testbed .................. 3.0 

Army Test Ranges and Facilities: 
White Sands Missile Range ....... 7.5 
DOD High Energy Laser Test Facility: 
HELSTF ......................... 14.0 
Munitions Standardization Effectiveness 
and Safety: 
Contained Detonation Technology 
.................................... 3.0 
Bluegrass Army Depot .............. 2.5 

Management Headquarters 
(R&D): Akamai research 
project ...................................... 23.0 

Combat Vehicle Improvement 
Programs: M–1 Large Area Flat 
Panel Displays .......................... 8 

Digitization: Fort Hood 
Digitization Research ............... 2.0 

Force XXI Battle Command, Brigade 
and Below (FBCB2): 
FBCB2 ....................................... 21.7 

End Item Industrial Preparedness 
Activities: 
Instrumental Factory For 
Gears (INFAC) ....................... 4.0 
Totally Integrated Manufacturing 
Enterprise ................... 10.0 

Directive Report Language: Directs 
the Army and Marine 
Corps to develop a plan, and 
report on its implementation, 
for including the Rock Island 
arsenal in all aspects of howitzer 
design, development and 
production. 

RDTE NAVY 

Air and Surface Launched Weapons 
Technology: Pulsed Detonation 
Engine Technology ........... 5.0 

Ship, Submarine and Logistics 
Technology: Stainless Steel 
Double Hull ............................... 5.0 

Marine Corps Landing Force 
Technology: Non-Traditional 
Military Operations .................. 5.0 

Communications, Command and 

Control, Intel Surveillance: 
Hyperspectral Research ............ 4.0 
UESA Signal Processing Sup


port ........................................ 5.0 

Human Systems Technology: 
Coastal Cancer Control (MUSC) 5.0 
Retinal Pigment Laser Damage 0.2 

Materials, Electronics and Com


puter Technology: 
Heatshield Research ................. 2.0 
Thermal Management Mate


rials ....................................... 2.0 
Photomagnetic Material Research 
.................................... 0.5 
Silicon Carbide For Electronic 
Power Devices ........................ 2.0 
Innovative Communications 
Materials ............................... 2.25 
Advanced Material Processing 
Center .................................... 5.0 
ADPICAS .................................. 1.15 

Electronic Warfare Technology: 
Free Electron Laser .................. 10.0 
Waveform Generator ................ 3.0 


S6662 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Continued 


Oceanographic and Atmospheric 
Technology: Distributed Marine-
Environment Forecast 
System ...................................... 2.4 

Undersea Warfare Weaponry 

Technology: 
Computational Eng. Design ...... 3.5 
SAUVIM ................................... 1.5 

Surface Ship and Submarine 

HM&E Advanced Technology: 
Composite Helo Hangar ............ 5.0 
Reconfigurable Ship Simula


tion ........................................ 2.5 
Power Node Control Centers ..... 3.0 
Virtual Testbed For Advanced 

Electrical Systems ................ 5.0 
Marine Corps Advanced Tech


nology Demonstration (ADT): 
BURRO ..................................... 5.0 
Advanced Light Weight Gre


nade ....................................... 1.0 
Project Albert ........................... 4.0 
Vehicle Technology Demo ........ 1.0 

Medical Development (Advanced): 
Naval Dental Research Institute 
........................................ 3.0 
Prostate Cancer Immuno- therapy 
......................................... 1.5 
Manpower, Personnel and Training 
Adv Tech Dev: 
Integrated Manufacturing 
Studies ................................... 3.0 
T-Star ....................................... 1.5 

Environmental Quality and Logistics 
Advanced Technology: 
Visualization Of Technical Information 
(VTI) ........................ 3.0 

Navy Technical Information 
Presentation System: Joint Experimentation 
........................... 15.0 

Undersea Warfare Advanced 
Technology: Terfenol-D ............ 2.5 

Mine and Expeditionalary Warfare 
Advanced Technology: 
Ocean Modeling ........................ 9.0 

Advanced Technology Transition: 
Low Observable Stack .............. 10.0 
Vector Thrusted Dusted Pro


peller ..................................... 6.0 
Advanced Trailer Research ....... 6.0 
Mine Countermeasures Ship ..... 12.0 

C3 Advanced Technology: National 
Technology Alliance ...... 10.0 

Surface and Shallow Ater Mine 
Countermeasures: Integrated 
Combat Weapons Systems 
(ICWS) ...................................... 18.0 

Shipboard System Component 
Development: Advanced Water 
Jet Technology ......................... 2.0 

Pilot Fish .................................... 2.5 

Advanced Submarine System Development: 
Enhanced Performance 
Motor Brush ..................... 2.3 

Ship Concept Advanced Design: 
STEP Development—Navy CAE 
Technology ............................... 2.0 

Advanced Surface Machinery 
Systems: Naval Ship Survivability 
....................................... 2.5 

Combat Systems Integration: 
Common Command And Decision 
Systems ............................. 5.0 

Cooperative Engagement: CEC 
Space ........................................ 15.0 

Environmental Protection: Asbestos 
Conversion Pilot Program 
......................................... 4.0 

Land Attack Technology: Continuous 
Processor, NSWC .............. 6.3 
Land Attack Technology: Ex


tended Range Guided Munition 10 
Non-Lethal Weapons—Dem/Val: .. 
Innovation Initiatives ................. 3.0 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Con


tinued 
Space and Electronic Warfare 
(SEW) Arch/Eng Support: 
NAVCIITI ................................. 4.0 
Other Helo Development: 
Sentient Sensors ....................... 1.0 
Parametric Airborne Dipping 
Sonar ..................................... 15.0 
H–1 Upgrades: EMD Program ....... 26.6 
Aircrew Systems Development: 
Aircrew Systems ....................... 3.5 
Surface Combatant Combat System 
Engineering: AEGIS Interoperability 
................................ 25.0 
Airborne MCM: CH–60 Upgrades .. 2.0 
Air Control: ECARS ..................... 7.0 
Enhanced Modular Signal Processor: 
ARCI/MPP ...................... 11.0 
Swath (Small Waterplane are 
Twin Hull) Oceanographic Ship: 
SWATH ..................................... 9.0 
New Design SSN: Non-propulsion 
Electronic Systems .................. 10.0 
Ship Contract Design/Live Fire 
T&E: Smart Propulsor Product 
Model ........................................ 2.0 
Ship Self Defense—EMD: NULKA 4.4 
Distributed Surveillance System: 
Advanced Deployable System ... 22.0 
Major T&E Investment ................ 5.0 
Marine Corps Program Wide Support: 
ChemBio Individual Sampler 
(CBIS) .................................... 4.8 
Consequence Management Information 
System (CMIS) ...... 1.2 
Small Unit Biological Detector 
(SUBD) ................................... 4.0 
F–18 Squadrons: Joint Helmet 
Mounted Cueing System ........... 5.0 
Consolidated Training Systems 
Development: Battle Force Tactical 
Training System (BFTT) .. 7.5 
Surface ASW Combat System Integration: 
High Dyn. Range, 
Towed Array Rec. & Sonar ....... 8.0 
Navy Science Assistance Program: 
Lash .......................................... 12.0 
Airship/LASH Study for Range 
Enhancements ....................... 1.0 
Airborne Reconnaissance Systems: 
Hyperspectral Modular 
Upgrades ................................... 4.0 
Modeling and Simulation Support: 
SPAWAR Modeling and 
Simulation Initiative ............... 3.0 
Industrial Preparedness Mantech 10.0 
RDTE AIR FORCE 
Defense Research Sciences: National 
Solar Observatory .......... 0.65 
Materials: 
Structural Monitoring of Aging 
Aircraft .................................. 1.5 
Friction Stir Welding ............... 2.0 
Thermal Management For 
Space Structures ................... 2.5 
Titanium Matrix Composites ... 2.2 
Materials—High Temperature 
Ceramic Fibers ...................... 2.4 
Resin Systems For AF Engine 
Applications .......................... 2.0 
Metals Affordability Initiative 
Consortium ............................ 9.0 
Electrochem Fatigue Sensor 
Dev & Field Use Tests ............ 3.0 
Human Effectiveness Applied Research: 
Solid Electrolyte Oxygen Separator 
...................................... 6.0 
Behavioral Science Res Under 
AFRL ..................................... 5.1 
Aerospace Proulsion: 
High Thermal Stability Fuel 
Technology ............................ 1.0 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Continued 


KC–135 Variable Displacement 
Vane Pump ............................ 4.0 
High Power, Advanced Low 

Mass Systems Prototype ....... 6.0 
More Electric Aircraft Program 3.0 
Thermophotovoltaic (TPV) ...... 2.0 
ISSES/AFRL ............................. 0.775 

Hypersonic Technology Program: 
Restore Hypersonic And High 
Speed Propulsion ...................... 16.0 

Phillips Lab Exploratory Devel


opment: 
HAARP ..................................... 10.0 
Radio Frequency Applications 

Development .......................... 5.0 
Tropo-Weather .......................... 2.5 
Space Survivability .................. 0.6 
HIS Spectral Sensing ................ 0.8 

Command, Control and Communications: 
Electromagnetic 
Technology ............................... 9.3 

Advanced Materials for Weapon 
Systems: Composite Space 
Launch Payload Dispensers ...... 4.5 

Aerospace Structures: Polymeric 
Foam Core ................................ 4.0 

Aerospace Propulsion and Power 
Technology: More Electric Aircraft 
Program ........................... 0.25 

Personnel Training and Simulation 
Technology: Behaviorial 
Science Research & AFRL ........ 1.8 

Crew Systems and Personnel Protection 
Technology: 
Helmet Mounted Visual System 
Comp. & Mini-CRT ................. 5.0 
Panoramic Night Vision Goggles 
(PNVG) ........................... 3.0 
Advanced Spacecraft Technology: 
Scorpius .................................... 5.0 

MSTRS: 
Upper Stage Flight Experiment 15.0 
Space Maneuver Vehicles ......... 25.0 

Advanced Weapons Technology: 
Laser Spark Missile Countermeasures 
Program ................. 5.0 
Field Laser, Radar Upgrades .... 6.0 

Environmental Engineering 
Technology: E-Smart Environmental 
Monitoring Tool ........... 5.0 

Space Control Technology: Program 
Increase ........................... 5.0 
Joint Strike Fighter: Alternative 
Engine Development ................. 15.0 

Intercontinental Ballistic Missile 
(Dem/Val): Quick Reaction 
Launch Demonstration Under 
RSLP ........................................ 19.2 

Space Based Laser: SBL Plan, 
Eng. And Design Of SBL Test 
Facility ..................................... 10.0 

B–2 Advanced Technology Bomber: 
B–2 Upgrades And Maintainability 
Enhancements .............. 37.0 

EW Development: Precision And 
Location & ID Prog. (PLAID) 
Upgrade .................................... 10.0 

Submunitions: 3–D Advanced 
Track Acquisition And Imaging 
System ...................................... 4.5 

Life Support Systems: Life Support 
Systems ............................ 2.5 

Computer Resource Technology 
Transition (CRTT): Asset Software 
Re-Use Program ............... 2.8 

Major T&E Investment: MARIAH 
II Hypersonic Wind Tunnel Program 
......................................... 6.0 

Program Reduction: Big Crow 
Program Office ......................... 5.0 
Space Test Program (STP): Micro 
Satellite Technology ................ 10.0 

F–16 Squadrons: ADV Identification 
Friend Or Foe (AIFF) For 
F–16 ........................................... 6.0 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6663 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Continued 


F–117A Squadrons: Pre-EMD And 
EMD Efforts On Block 3 Upgrades 
....................................... 20.0 

Compass Cass: TRACS–F Upgrade 8.0 

Theater Air Control Systems: 
Theater Air Control Systems 
(TACS) ...................................... 6.0 

Theater Battle Management 
(TBM) C41: Theater Battle Management 
Core Systems ............. 5.0 

Cobra Ball: Advanced Airborne 
Sensor ....................................... 4.0 

Information Systems Security 
Program: Lighthouse Cyber Security 
Program ......................... 10.0 

Airborne Reconnaissance Systems: 
JSAF LBSS And HBSS ... 10.0 

Manned Reconnaissance Systems: 
Prototype Pre-Processor .......... 4.5 
U–2 Dual Data-Link II Upgrade 8.0 

Industrial Preparedness: Nickel-
Metal Hydride Replacement 
Battery For F–16 ....................... 1.33 

Productivity, Reliability, Availability, 
Maintain, Program 
OFC: 

Aging Aircraft Extension Program 
...................................... 7.0 
Blade Repair Facility ............... 7.0 

Support Systems Development: 
Integrated Maintenance Data 
Systems .................................... 9.0 

DEFENSE–WIDE, RDT&E 

Support Technologies—Applied 

Research: 
Wide Band Gap Materials ......... 14.0 
POAP ........................................ 8.0 
Laser Communications Experi


ment ...................................... 3.0 
Support Technologies—Advanced 
Technology Dev. 
Atmospheric Interceptor Technology 
(AIT) .......................... 30.0 

Excalibur ..................................... 5.0 
Scorpius .................................... 5.0 
Silicon Thick Film Mirror 

Coatings ................................. 2.0 
Joint Theater Missile Defense 
Program: 
Liquid Surrogate Target Devel


opment Program .................... 5.0 
PMRF TMD Upgrades ............... 10.0 
Optical-Electro Sensors ............ 5.0 
Kauai Test Facility .................. 4.0 

BMD Technical Operations: 
SMDC Adv. Research Center .... 3.0 
Threat and Countermeasures: 
Comprehensive Advanced Radar 
Technology ............................ 4.0 
Phase IV of Long Range Missile 
Feasibility ............................. 3.0 

Patriot PAC–3 Theater Missile 
Defense Acquisition-EMD: Program 
Cost Growth .................... 152.0 

OTHER ADJUSTMENTS 

Defense Research Sciences: Spectral 
Hole Burning Applications 2.0 

University Research Initiatives: 
Anticorrosion Studies ............... 1.5 
Advanced High Yield Software 

Development .......................... 1.5 

Active Hyperspectral Imaging 
Sensor Research Program 
Chemical And Biological Defense 
Programs: Chemical And 
Biological Detection Programs 4.0 

Medical Free Electron Laser ....... 2.281 
Re-Use Technology Adoption Program 
......................................... 3 

Chemical And Biological Defense 
Program: Chemical And Biological 
Detection Programs ...... 10.0 

Tactical Technology: CEROS ...... 7 

Integrated Command And Control 
Technology: High Definition 
System (HDS) ........................... 10.0 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Continued 


Fabrication of 3–D Micro Struc


tures ......................................... 2 
Biodegradable Plastics ................ 1.5 
Strategic Materials ..................... 2 
WMD Related Technology: 

Thermionics .............................. 3.0 
Nuclear Weapons Effects .......... 7.0 
Deep Digger .............................. 5.0 

Explosives Demilitarization 
Technology: Explosives Demilitarization 
Technology .............. 7.0 

Counter Terror Technical Sup


port: 
Facial Recognition Technology 3.0 
Testing Of Air Blast And Im


provised Explosives ............... 4.0 
Special Technical Support: Complex 
Systems Development ....... 5.0 

Verification Technology Demonstration: 
Comprehensive Test 
Ban Treaty Verification ........... 1.5 

Generic Logistics R&D Tech


nology Demonstrations: 
Microelectronics ....................... 3.0 
Computer Assisted Technology 

Transfer ................................. 6.0 

Strategic Environmental Research 
Program: Biosystems 
Technology ............................... 6.0 

Cooperative DOD/VA Medical Research 
....................................... 10.0 
Advanced Electronics Tech


nologies: 
Change Detection Technology .. 3 
Defense Techlink ...................... 1.5 
Center for Advanced Micro-

structures and Devices .......... 4 

Advanced Concept Technology 
Demonstrations: Magnetic 
Bearing Cooling Turbine .......... 4.0 

High Performance Computing 
Modernization Program: 
Multi Thread Arch. System For 
High Per. Modem ................... 4.0 
High Performance Visualiza


tion Center ............................ 3.0 
Large Millimeter Telescope ......... 2 
Joint Wargaming Simulations 

Management Office: Synthetic 
Range Study ............................. 1.0 
Joint Robotics Program: Lightweight 
Robotic Vehicles ........... 5.0 
Advanced Sensor Applications 

Program: 
HAARP ..................................... 5.0 
Solid State Dye Laser Applica


tions ....................................... 6.0 
CALS Initiative: CALS—Integrated 
Date Environment (IDE) 4.0 
Chemical and Biological Defense 
program—Dem/Val: 
Bioadhesion Research To Combat 
Biological Warfare ........... 2.0 
M93 Al For Chemical Simulation 
Training Suites .............. 5.0 

Humanitarian Demining: 
Demining Technologies For 
Unexploded Land Mines ............ 3.0 

Joint Robotics Program EMD: 
Vehicle Teleoperations ............. 5.0 

Joint Theater Air and Missile Defense 
Organization: Support 
Jamming AOA .......................... 10.0 

Defense Technology Analysis: 
Commodity MGT System Consolidation 
.................................. 5.0 

Information Systems Security 
Program: Trusted Rubix Database 
Guard ................................ 1.8 

Defense Imagery and Mapping 
Program: 
Pacific Imagery Program for 
Exploitations ......................... 2.8 
NIMA View Joint Mapping Tool 8.0 

Department of Defense appropriation bill for fiscal 
year 2000, objectionable provisions—Con


tinued 
Defense Reconnaissance Support 
Activities (Space): Pacific Disaster 
Center .............................. 6.0 
Defense Health Program 
Operation and Maintenance: 
Alaska Federal Health Care 
Partnership ............................ 1.4 
Graduate School of Nursing ..... 2.3 
Tri-Service Nursing Research 
Program ................................. 6.0 
Pacific Island Health Care ........ 5 
Center for Disaster Management 
...................................... 5.0 
Military Health Services Information 
Management .............. 10 
Brown Tree Snakes ................... 1 
PACMEDNET, Hawaii .............. 12.0 
Automated Clinical Practice 
Guidelines .............................. 7.5 
Outcome Driven Health Care 
and Info Systems ................... 6.0 
Research, development, test and 
evaluation: 
Breast Cancer Research Program 
...................................... 175.0 
Prostate Cancer Research Program 
...................................... 75.0 
Acute lung injury, advanced 
soft tissue modeling, alcohol 
abuse prevention, alcoholism, 
brain injury, childhood asthma, 
cognitive neuroscience, 
diabetes, digital mammography 
imaging, disease management 
demonstration, enzymatic 
wound disinfectants, 
neurofibromatosis, 
osteoporosis and bone disease, 
ovarian cancer, 
polynitroxylated hemoglobin, 
smoking cessation, stem cell, 
tissue regeneration research 50.0 
Drug Interdiction and Counterdrug 
Activities 
National Guard counterdrug support, 
New Jersey ....................... 20.0 
Gulf States counterdrug computer 
upgrades in Alabama, 
Georgia, Louisiana & Mississippi 
...................................... 10.0 
Marijuana eradication ................. 6.0 
Counterdrug intelligence and infrastructure 
support ................. 50.0 
R–OTHR radar study ................... 1.0 
Northeast Regional Counterdrug 
Training Center ........................ 2.0 
Counternarcotics Center at Hammer 
........................................... 8.0 
Total ...................................... 4.887B 

Some Examples of Protectionist Legislation 

‘‘Buy American’’ anchor chains. 
‘‘Buy American’’ carbon, alloy, or armor 

steel plate. 

‘‘Buy American’’ ball and roller bearings. 

‘‘Buy American’’ computers. 

‘‘Buy American’’ coal for municipal dis


trict heat, Germany. 

‘‘Buy American’’ food, speciality metals, 
hand tools, measuring tools, clothing, and 
fabrics (Berry Amendment). 

BILL LANGUAGE 

Operations and Maintenance, Army 

Not less than $355 million shall be available 
only for conventional ammunition care 
and maintenance. 

Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy 

The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to 
enter into a contract for an LHD–1 Amphibious 
Assault Ship which shall be funded on 
an incremental basis. 

Chemical Agents and Munition Destruction, 
Army 

$1 million shall be available until expended 
each year only for a Johnston Atoll off-island 
leave program. 


S6664 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

Intelligence Community Management Account 

$27 million shall be transferred to the Department 
of Justice for the National Drug 
Intelligence Center. 

Kaho’ olawe Island Conveyance, Remediation, 
and Environmental Restoration Fund: 
$35 million. 

Section 8022: $500,000 shall be used during a 
single fiscal year for any single relocation of 
an organization, unit, activity or function of 
the Department of Defense into or within the 
National Capitol Region. 

Section 8029: Prohibition on the use of 
funds to reduce or disestablish the 53rd 
Weather Reconnaissance Squadron of the Air 
Force Reserve, Keesler Air Force Base. 

Section 8033: $26.4 million shall be available 
only for the Civil Air Patrol Corporation. 


Section 8070: Restrictive employment practices 
for contractors that could increase the 
cost of the work to be performed. 

Section 8071: The Army shall use the 
former George Air Force Base as the airhead 
for the National Training Center at Fort 
Irwin. 

Section 8083: Authorizes the Defense Department 
to waive reimbursement costs associated 
with the conduct of seminars, conferences 
and other activities at the Asia-Pacific 
Center for Security Studies. 

Section 8098: Authorizes $255,333 for payment 
to Trans World Airlines to replace lost 
and canceled Treasury checks. 

Section 8103: $5 million shall be transferred 
to the Department of Transportation to realign 
railroad track on Elmendorf Air Force 
Base. 

Section 8105: Requires procurement of malt 
beverages and wine sold by nonappropriated 
fund activities of the Defense Department 
from commercial entities within the state in 
which the military installation resides. 

Section 8107: Amends the Communications 
Act with respect to the bidding process involving 
the sale of the frequency spectrum. 
Mandates such bidding process be initiated 
during fiscal year 1999. 

Section 8108: Reduces the amount available 
for national defense by $3.1 billion. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, it totals 
$5 billion. Self-restraint in fiduciary 
matters is a virtue, especially for a 
party that rose to majority status with 
the promise of reducing this type of 
practice. 

But every year it is the same old 
story: More money for NULKA antiship 
decoy systems; more money for the 
plethora of laser projects that have 
proliferated at every lab in the country; 
more money for unrequested and 
unneeded aircraft; more money for 
automatic grenade launchers—we have 
got to have a stockpile of these things 
that will last forever—more money for 
research into double-hull technology, 
which shipbuilders are supposed to provide 
themselves per the requirements 
of the Oil Pollution Prevention Act. 

There are millions every year for 
hyperspectral research that is not requested 
by the military. Earmarks like 
the one that requires the Army and 
Marine Corps to make the Rock Island 
arsenal the center of all future design, 
development and production activities 
related to artillery do not represent 
good public policy. What is it that 
forces us to designate Rock Island arsenal 
as a center for this? That’s not public 
policy. 

Medical research and environmental 
matters unrelated to combat ought to 

be carefully scrutinized when funded in 
the defense budget. We do just the opposite: 
we use the defense budget to 
fund pet projects that should be funded 
through nondefense agencies in non-
defense spending bills. Osteoporosis is a 
serious problem, but in the defense 
budget? $3 million to fund phyto-remediation 
research and arid lands? In the 
defense budget? How can we take ourselves 
seriously—how can the public 
take us seriously, when we demonstrate 
absolutely no willingness to 
curtail the very spending practices 
that put this country so heavily in 
debt? 

At the very time a consensus has 
formed around the proposition that the 
armed forces are being stretched perilously 
thin, a situation that will get 
worse when we send more than a brigade’s 
worth of ground forces into 
Kosovo, it is incumbent upon those of 
us elected to represent the interests of 
the nation that we act with a modicum 
of self-restraint where the public treasure 
is concerned. Failing to do so will 
not only damage the treasure, it will 
most assuredly cost lives. This is, after 
all, national defense. 

Let’s review some recent examples of 
readiness shortcomings, shortcomings 
that the Joint Chiefs of Staff have repeatedly 
emphasized pose a serious 
threat to both near and long-term 
readiness: 

The nuclear carrier U.S.S. Enterprise 
(CVN–65) recently deployed to the Persian 
Gulf and Kosovo, undermanned by 
some 800 sailors. 

We are losing pilots to the commercial 
airlines faster than we can train 
them. 

The Navy has one-half the F/A–18 pilots, 
one-third of the S–3 pilots, and 
only one-quarter of the EA–6B pilots it 
needs. 

Only 26 percent of the Air Force pilots 
have committed to stay beyond 
their current service agreement. 

The Army says that five of its ten divisions 
lack enough majors, captains, 
senior enlisted personnel, tankers and 
gunners. 

Again, the world watches as the Air 
Force’s main bomber, the B–52, once 
again is called to duty to delivery air 
launched cruise missiles in combat. 
How many times has the Air Force 
called upon this 40-year old workhorse 
to deliver devastating firepower? The 
B–52 bomber was already old when I 
saw it fly in Vietnam, and yet the Air 
Force plan will carry the current 
bomber fleet through the next 40 years, 
with a replacement to the B–52 tentatively 
planned in 2037. 

The Navy is struggling to maintain a 
fleet of 300 ships, down from over 500 in 
the early 1990s. The fiscal year 2000 
budget will not support a Navy of even 
200 ships. 

The Marine Corps saves money in 
spare parts by retreading light trucks 
and Humvees, so as to afford small 
arms ammunition for forward deployed 
Marines. 

Mr. President, the cumulative effect 
of these types of readiness problems 

will most assuredly translate into 
higher risks for the young men and 
women we send into harm’s way to defend 
us and our country. 

Mr. President, I understand what is 
going on here. We have a problem, and 
that is the existence of stringent budget 
caps designed to keep government 
spending in check. I support those who 
are resisting the urge to bust the budget 
by exceeding the spending allowed 
by the 1997 budget agreement. 

I also understand that the Appropriations 
Committee has to balance the interests 
of those who favor domestic 
spending over defense spending, and I 
realize that compromises have to be 
made. 

But we shouldn’t be stuffing appropriations 
bills, defense or otherwise, 
full of pork-barrel spending. And we 
shouldn’t be cutting defense, like this 
bill does, to set aside money to cover 
the excess pork-barrel spending that 
will inevitably show up in other domestic 
appropriations bills later in the 
process. 

And I would just like to make the 
point that the money that was taken 
from this bill for later pork-barrel 
spending could just as easily be reallocated 
back into this bill, when this 
amendment is adopted. 

We shouldn’t be jeopardizing the 
readiness of our Armed Forces by cutting 
high-priority funding just to stay 
within the budget caps. We should do 
the right thing, and cut the pork instead 
of potentially putting our men 
and women in harm’s way without the 
training and tools they need to defend 
themselves and our nation. 

I was going through this list here. 
Some of them are interesting and some 
are amusing: 

Under Defense Health Program is $1.4 
billion for the Alaska Federal Health 
Care Partnership; Tri-Service Nursing 
Research Program, $6 million—remember, 
this is out of Defense. I don’t even 
know where the Tri-Service Nursing 
Research Program is. Then there is Pacific 
Island Health Care, $5 million; 
brown tree snakes—the perennial tree 
snakes—is only a million dollars this 
year. I would have thought that with 
all the millions and millions we have 
spent on brown tree snakes over the 
past years, we would have at least been 
able to defend a nation from them. Unfortunately, 
the spending for brown 
tree snakes continues, and probably 
will for a long time—at least in my 
lifetime. 

Outcome Driven Health Care and Info 
Systems, $6 million; Breast Cancer Research 
Program, $175 million; Prostate 
Cancer Research Program, $75 million; 
Acute lung injury, advanced soft tissue 
modeling, et cetera, et cetera, $50 million. 
Then, of course, we have the usual 
protections in this legislation that requires 
us to ‘‘buy American’’ anchor 
chains, carbon, alloy, or armor steel 
plate, and ball and roller bearings. We 
have to buy American for computers 
this time. That is interesting. We have 
to buy American coal for municipal 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6665 

district heat in Germany. Talk about 
the old line about bringing coal to New 
Castle. Then, of course, we have to buy 
American food, specialty metals, hand 
tools, measuring tools, clothing and 
fabrics. 

Then we have Ship Depot Operation 
Support at the Philadelphia Naval 
Shipyard, $23 million. I am very curious 
about that expenditure up in Philadelphia, 
which was supposed to be 
opened and going to be in private 
hands. Barrow landfill, $3 million; Professional 
Development/Education Asia 
Pacific Center, $1.7 million. I wonder 
whose profession is being developed 
there. Let’s see. The list goes on. 

I think I have made my point, as 
usual. Here is Counternarcotics Center 
at Hammer. Since I don’t know where 
Hammer is, I probably should not comment 
on it. The list goes on. Here is 
one the military didn’t request: A 
smart truck initiative. Perhaps we will 
have trucks that gas themselves, because 
$3.5 million is a pretty hefty sum 
to spend on smart trucks. 

Here is Plasma Energy Pyrolysis system 
and Phyto-remediation in Arid 
Lands. Not to mention one of our important 
defense items, Texas Regional 
Institute for Environmental Studies. 
Then there is the University 
Partnering for Operations Support and 
Cold Regions R&D. 

The list goes on. The point is that we 
now have 11,000 enlisted families that 
are on food stamps. We now have a 
shortage of air launch cruise missiles, 
which everybody knows about. We now 
have an incredible increase in the wear 
and tear of our equipment because of 
the dramatically increased operations 
regarding Kosovo. What do we do? We 
think that we spend the money the 
military needs for modernization and 
operations and maintenance? No, Mr. 
President. We spend $5 billion in unnecessary 
and unwanted things, which is 
up, by the way, from the supplemental. 
I think I only identified a little over $2 
billion that was in the ‘‘emergency’’ 
supplemental, such as Dungeness crab 
fishermen, reindeer, and other ‘‘vital 
emergencies’’ that required our immediate 
attention. 

So, I have very little confidence that 
this amendment will carry. I think it is 
important, however, that the American 
people know where their tax dollars are 
going, and sooner or later—perhaps 
later—they will demand that we stop 
doing this with their hard-earned tax 
dollars. It may be later, as I say. But I 
also have to say to my dear friends on 
the Appropriations Committee, I see 
increases in this kind of wasteful and 
unnecessary spending, not decreases. 
There is going to have to come a point 
where we are going to have to start 
having recorded votes on all this stuff. 
I am worried about brown tree snakes 
like everybody else, but I am much 
more worried about the men and 
women in the military who happen to 
be subsisting on food stamps today. I 
think a lot of Americans are growing 
rather weary of this procedure. 

Mr. President, I will be glad to have 
a tabling motion vote or an up-or-down 
vote on this amendment. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I regretfully 
must oppose Senator 
MCCAIN’s amendment. I understand the 
amendment, but it takes a different approach 
to funding critical Department 
of Defense priorities for fiscal year 2000 
than the committee has approved in 
this bill before the Senate. 

Based upon the amounts that we provided 
in the fiscal year 1999 emergency 
supplemental appropriations for 
Kosovo and funds that were remaining 
from the 1999 supplemental for Bosnia, 
the committee determined—and I add 
that it was at my request—that at 
least $3.1 billion now available to the 
Department of Defense can and should 
be carried over to the year 2000. As a 
matter of fact, on the floor of the Senate 
I stated that our intent was to try 
and take care of some of the year 2000 
obligations in that supplemental to 
best reflect the needs of the Department 
and the pressures across the discretionary 
accounts under the 1997 
budget agreement. 

Our committee adjusted the totals in 
this bill to reflect those specific 
amounts that carry over from the 1999 
appropriation into the year 2000. Having 
done so, having brought $3.1 billion 
more into this account, we then removed 
some of the moneys that we previously 
allocated to the account into 
the nondefense area. The discretion to 
do that gave us the ability to meet 
critical needs in the nondefense area. 

We believe that we did address critical 
readiness problems in the supplemental, 
and we specifically anticipated 
some of those needs which could possibly 
have been incurred—the costs in-
curred—before September 30th of this 
year. Those now appear to be funds 
that will be required in the year 2000, 
and we have met those demands by 
moving forward with the money. 

I know this has caused some anxiety 
to people within the Department of Defense 
who believe that we have cut the 
bill. We have not cut the bill. The bill 
is exactly the same amount of money 
originally under consideration by the 
committee, but we have found the 
moneys to pay those bills by carrying 
forward into the year 2000 some of the 
1999 appropriations. 

We believe we have met the needs of 
the military under this bill. The 
amendment of the Senator from Arizona 
strikes from the bill $3.1 billion, 
rather than carry forward with the 
money from 1999. I think that will have 
a detrimental impact on the priorities 
established by the committee and the 
priorities that some Members have presented 
not only in committee but on 
the floor. 

For instance, the Senator’s amendment 
would reduce nearly $270 million 
from the service operation and maintenance 
accounts, including $53.5 million 
from the Army National Guard alone. 
In procurement, the amendment pend


ing would reduce or eliminate funding 
provided to replace the aging UH–1, the 
Huey helicopters, built in the 1960s, 
with the Army’s modern standard, the 
UH–60 Blackhawk. 

The amendment reduces funding for 
advance procurement of one of the 
Commandant of the Marine Corps’ top 
priorities, the LHD–8 amphibious assault 
ship. 

For the Air Force, funding for additional 
F–16, EC–130J and JStars aircraft 
would be deleted. 

In research and development, funds 
added for the SBIRS satellite, national 
missile defense and the third arrow 
battery for Israel would be reduced. 

For the Defense Health Program, the 
additional amounts provided for breast 
cancer research and prostate cancer research 
would be cut also by the Senator’s 
amendment. 

In response to Members’ requests 
that the committee provide additional 
funds to fight the war on drugs, the 
committee did add funding for the gulf 
states counterdrug initiative, the National 
Guard counterdrug missions, 
and $50 million in response to the proposed 
Drug Free Century Act. Senator 
MCCAIN’s amendment would delete 
$61.6 million of the funds added to the 
bill for those efforts. 

The Senator from Arizona and I have 
discussed on many occasions that we 
do have different approaches to addressing 
the funding needs for the 
Armed Forces. I know Senator MCCAIN 
is a stalwart proponent of the men and 
women of the armed services and their 
families, and I believe I am also. We 
are just approaching the job from a different 
direction. 

I believe that I must, on behalf of the 
committee, oppose the amendment. I 
truly believe the flexibility provided by 
the committee to the Department of 
Defense best accommodates the needs 
of the military, and ensures that funds 
are available in the accounts where 
necessary to accommodate readiness, 
quality of life, modernization and technology 
priorities. I can state categorically 
the accounts that are here to accommodate 
readiness, quality of life, 
modernization and technology priorities 
of the Department of Defense have 
been met by our bill. 

The Senator mentioned some of the 
items in this bill that affect my State. 
The Point Barrow landfill was created 
by the Department of the Navy. It operated 
in Point Barrow for many, many 
years. As that installation was closed 
down, the Department of Navy did not 
remediate the landfill. It is a terrible 
problem in the Arctic, particularly in 
the summertime when that landfill becomes 
just a morass. The local people 
have asked, using Defense Department 
funds, that the job be completed. This 
bill does, in fact, provide moneys for 
that purpose. 

The Senator mentioned the joint 
Federal telemedicine project that is 
going on in my State. Again, this is an 
initiative by the Department of Defense 
that has a substantial amount of 


S6666 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

communications capability in our 
State to deal with Federal agencies’ 
needs and the needs of the services 
they provide throughout the State of 
Alaska to coordinate a delivery system 
for medicine using telemedicine techniques. 
We believe that is going to result 
in reducing the cost of health care 
delivery to Alaska Native people and 
the Indian Health Service to the military 
people throughout our State who 
serve on military bases and those who 
receive the benefits of Federal programs. 
It is not a general program for 
the population as a whole. 

I say to the Senate, I understand the 
Senator’s approach and I respect it, but 
I believe and our committee believes 
that there are instances where activities, 
which originated on military 
bases or caused by military occupation 
of specific portions of land within the 
individual States, do affect the local 
population and that those obligations 
of the Federal Government should be 
met with defense funds. 

The basic problem, though—I go back 
to the beginning—we did not cut from 
other accounts in order to get the moneys 
to shift to other appropriations 
bills. For instance, we have shifted a 
substantial amount of money now 
through what we call the deficiency 
subcommittee—which was a subcommittee 
created specifically for that 
purpose—moneys from these accounts 
from the Department of Defense into 
the agriculture appropriations bill, but 
the way it was done does not reduce 
the amount of money that will be spent 
by the Department of Defense in the 
year 2000. A portion of the moneys really 
are carried over to be spent in the 
year 2000 rather than being spent in 
1999, and that is what we intended 
when we asked the Congress to approve 
that supplemental appropriations bill. 
I hope the Senate will agree with us 
and will oppose this amendment and 
defeat it. It is a significant vote for us 
to determine. 

Members will note the reports in the 
papers and in the media concerning the 
meetings that are taking place in the 
House of Representatives. They are deciding 
on an approach quite similar to 
ours to reduce the amount of money 
that will be spent through the fiscal 
year 2000 process and carry over some 
of the funds from 1999 to meet the obligations 
in the year 2000. 

I think that is a legitimate way to 
use the money that is available to us 
and will enable us hopefully to stay 
under the caps in treating all of the 
bills that have to be passed by our 
committee. Thirteen separate bills 
have to be brought to this floor, and 
ours is the only committee which faces 
a point of order under the Budget Act 
if we exceed the caps. We are trying 
our best to live with that Budget Act. 
I think we will. 

There is still a serious gap in money, 
but we will find that money somewhere 
within the agencies, either by reducing 
carryover funds or by eliminating 
funds that are now no longer high pri


ority so we can meet the obligations of 
the year 2000 with the funds that will 
be available under the budget agreement. 
If we cannot do that, we will 
come to the Senate in September, and 
we will have to work out a way to solve 
our problem. 

Right now, our goal—and I think it is 
a bipartisan goal—is to live with the 
Budget Act, stay within the caps, yet 
meet our obligations. What we have 
done in this bill is the initial key to 
opening up the door down that long 
corridor to comply with the Budget 
Act. I urge the Senate to disapprove 
the amendment of the Senator from 
Arizona. 

I yield to my friend if he has any 
comments to make. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Hawaii. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I join 
my chairman, Mr. STEVENS, in opposition 
to the McCain amendment. In the 
statement made by the distinguished 
Senator from Arizona, he mentioned a 
brown tree snake, $1 million to either 
control or to rid the State of Hawaii of 
this menace. 

The history of the brown tree snake 
is a rather simple one, and it has been 
documented. It was found in Solomon 
Islands and during the war, army 
transport vessels accidentally or otherwise 
carried several brown tree snakes 
from the Solomon Islands to Guam. 

Within 2 years, seven species of birds 
have been wiped out on Guam, babies 
have been threatened, and there is a 
brownout almost once an evening because 
of brown tree snakes. 

The State of Hawaii has no snakes 
unless they are brought in. It has been 
documented that the brown tree snake 
was brought in from Guam via the Air 
Force aircraft. Therefore, the Department 
of Defense, assuming some responsibility 
for this, has not disapproved 
this amount of $1 million to 
help the State of Hawaii rid itself of 
the brown tree snakes. 

Hawaii’s environment is such that it 
is rather fragile. We have no natural 
predators to control the snakes, and if 
it ever gets loose in my State, then all 
the beautiful birds of paradise will disappear. 


I think the amount we have put in 
this bill represents the position on the 
part of the Department of Defense in 
assuming responsibility is a rather 
small one. 

I hope my colleagues will join us in 
opposing the McCain amendment. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, it is 
my hope the Senate will agree that we 
can proceed on other amendments. 

I ask for the yeas and nays on the 
Senator’s amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The yeas and nays were ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that this amendment 
be set aside and hopefully we will 
vote on it sometime between 3:30 and 4. 

I request there be 2 minutes equally divided 
so the Senator from Arizona can 
state to the Senate again the purpose 
of the amendment before the final vote 
on the amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 549 AND 550 WITHDRAWN 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I have 
authority to withdraw Byrd amendments 
Nos. 549 and 550. They were 
modified and accepted in the managers’ 
package to which we previously agreed. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
amendments are withdrawn. 

The amendments (Nos. 549 and 550) 
were withdrawn. 

Mr. STEVENS. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
DEWINE). Without objection, it is so ordered. 


AMENDMENT NO. 581 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that amendment 
No. 581 be taken up at this moment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows. 

The Senator from Hawaii [Mr. INOUYE] proposes 
an amendment numbered 581. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that reading of the 
amendment be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill insert: 

SEC. . (a) The Department of Defense is 
authorized to enter into agreements with the 
Veterans Administration and Federally-
funded health agencies providing services to 
Native Hawaiians for the purpose of establishing 
a partnership similar to the Alaska 
Federal Health Care Partnership, in order to 
maximize Federal resources in the provision 
of health care services by Federally-funded 
health agencies, applying telemedicine technologies. 
For the purpose of this partnership, 
Native Hawaiians shall have the same status 
as other Native Americans who are eligible 
for the health care services provided by the 
Indian Health Service. 

(b) The Department of Defense is authorized 
to develop a consultation policy, consistent 
with Executive Order 13084 (issued 
May 14, 1998), with Native Hawaiians for the 
purpose of assuring maximum Native Hawaiian 
participation in the direction and administration 
of government services so as to 
render those services more responsive to the 
needs of the Native Hawaiian community. 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6667 

(c) For purposes of these sections, the term 
‘‘Native Hawaiian’’ means any individual 
who is a descendant of the aboriginal people, 
who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised 
sovereignty in the area that now comprises 
the State of Hawaii. 
Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, this 
amendment has been cleared by both 
sides and the chairman of the Indian 
Affairs Committee. I ask that it be 
considered and passed. 

With Chairman STEVENS’ agreement, 
included in the managers’ package of 
amendments is bill language that 
would provide authority to replicate 
the Federal Health Care Partnership 
that is now operating in the State of 
Alaska. 

Pursuant to the Alaska Federal 
Health Care Partnership, the Department 
of Defense (DoD), the Veterans’ 
Administration (VA) and the Indian 
Health Service (IHS) have entered into 
memoranda of understanding in order 
to make the most efficient use of resources 
that are made available to each 
of these Federally-funded health care 
systems in the provision of health care 
services to their respective eligible 
beneficiaries. Initiated in April of 1995, 
under this partnership, health care 
services are being provided to eligible 
DoD, VA and IHS beneficiaries without 
regard to the designation of the health 
care service facility, and telemedicine 
technologies are being employed to 
provide access to health care services 
in remote rural areas. 

The proposed bill language would 
provide authority for the Department 
of Defense to establish a similar arrangement 
with the Veterans’ Administration 
and Federally-funded health 
care agencies providing health care 
services to Native Hawaiians in the 
State of Hawaii. For the purpose of 
this partnership, Native Hawaiians 
shall have the same status as other Native 
Americans who are eligible for the 
health care services provided by the Indian 
Health Service. 

The proposed bill language also provides 
authority for the Department of 
Defense to develop a consultation policy 
with regard to programs and activities 
which affect the Native Hawaiian 
community in Hawaii. 

On May 14, 1998, President Clinton 
issued Executive Order 13084, directing 
every Federal agency to establish an 
effective process to provide for meaningful 
and timely consultation and coordination 
with Native Americans and 
Native American governments in the 
development of policies and practices 
that significantly or uniquely affect 
their communities. On October 20, 1998, 
the Secretary of the Department of Defense 
announced the issuance of the 
Department’s consultation policy affecting 
two of the three constituent 
Native American groups—American Indians 
and Alaska Natives. The proposed 
bill language authorizes the Department 
of Defense to develop a similar 
consultation policy for the third 
constituent group of Native Americans—
Native Hawaiians—for the pur


pose of assuring maximum Native Hawaiian 
participation in the direction 
and administration of governmental 
services so as to render those services 
more responsive to the needs of the Native 
Hawaiian community, consistent 
with the following findings of the 
Congress—— 

The United States recognizes and affirms 
that American Indian, Alaska 
Native, and Native Hawaiian people, as 
the aboriginal, indigenous, native people 
of the United States have a continuing 
right to autonomy in their own 
affairs and an ongoing right of self-determination 
and self-governance. 

The Constitutional authority of the 
Congress to legislate in matters affecting 
the aboriginal, indigenous, native 
people of the United States includes 
the authority to legislate in matters 
affecting the Native Hawaiian people, 
as aboriginal, indigenous, native people 
who have a special relationship with 
the United States. 

The Federal policy of self-determination 
and self-governance of the aboriginal, 
indigenous, native people of the 
United States is intended to maximize 
the participation of native people in 
the direction and administration of 
governmental services to their communities 
in order to make those services 
more responsive to the needs of the native 
people and their communities. In 
accordance with that policy, the Congress 
encourages Federal agency consultation 
with the aboriginal, indigenous, 
native people of Hawaii, Native 
Hawaiians, with regard to agency actions 
that uniquely or significantly affect 
them or their communities. 

For purposes of these sections in the 
proposed bill language, the term ‘‘Native 
Hawaiian’’ means any individual 
who is a descendant of the aboriginal 
people who, prior to 1778, ‘‘occupied 
and exercised sovereignty in the area 
that now comprises the State of Hawaii.’’ 


I thank the chairman of the Defense 
Appropriations Subcommittee, Senator 
STEVENS, for his willingness to assure 
that the Department of Defense has a 
consistent policy as it relates to all 
Native Americans. 

Mr. STEVENS. We are in agreement, 
Mr. President. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment is agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 581) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I move 
to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. STEVENS. I move to lay that 
motion on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. INOUYE. I thank the Chair, and 
I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, 
though I see on the floor Mr. INOUYE 
and Mr. STEVENS, two Senators for 
whom I have a tremendous amount of 
respect, I rise to speak in opposition to 
the proposed increases in military 
spending contained in this defense appropriations 
bill for fiscal year 2000. 

I have, I believe, been a strong supporter 
of our women and men in uniform, 
especially our veterans. I think 
we should provide the best possible 
training, equipment and preparations 
for our military forces. I understand 
and know full well that our forces have 
been asked in recent years to carry out 
a number of peacekeeping, 
humantarian and other missions. 

I voted to support the airstrikes in 
Kosovo. I have raised questions 
throughout this conflict. I hope there 
will be a diplomatic solution, and I 
hope the Kosovars will be able to go 
back home. I think we are at the beginning 
of a huge challenge. In particular, 
I want us to remember the Kosovars 
and continue especially with humanitarian 
assistance. 

So I think we need to adequately support 
these activities, and I also supported 
the supplemental budget for the 
cost of the campaign in Kosovo. But I 
am troubled—and I think I am probably 
one of only a few in the Senate, 
but I have the opportunity and the 
honor of being able to speak as a Senator 
from Minnesota, and so I will—by 
what I see as a stampede in this Congress 
toward even greater increases in 
Pentagon spending. I think the increase 
in spending in this legislation 
goes way beyond what we need to spend 
in the conflict in Kosovo and way beyond 
what I think a post-cold war defense 
budget should reflect. 

This appropriations bill totals $264 
billion, and we also appropriated a considerable 
amount more in the supplemental 
bill, the emergency bill. If you 
look at the cost of Kosovo, it will be a 
relatively small percentage of this 
overall budget. In terms of manpower 
or womanpower, even if we participate—
and I believe we will—in the 
KFOR peace enforcement process, we 
will be contributing about 7,000 troops. 
The total armed force of the United 
States is roughly 1.5 million. So this is 
not a question of whether or not we go 
on and live up to our commitment in 
Kosovo. I think we can support that 
mission without this Pentagon budget 
at the level called for. 

I fear that using Kosovo and also 
some vaguely defined set of ‘‘threats’’ 
will end up—and I want to talk about 
some of the doctrines that undergird 
this budget—giving a blank check to 
the Pentagon this year and in the 
years ahead. This budget accounts for a 
little over half of the discretionary 
spending in the annual budget. That is 
what troubles me. If you look at the 
peak of the cold war, currently we are 
spending, roughly speaking, just thinking 
about real dollar terms, close to 90 
percent—about 86—of the cold war 
budget, and that is during the height of 
the cold war. 


S6668 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

Now, most of the funds in this budget 
go to maintaining a force structure 
that is shaped by the requirement to 
fight two simultaneous, major conflicts 
and to counter what defense analysts 
refer to as ‘‘uncertainty scenarios.’’ 

I recognize that the United States 
faces a number of threats around the 
world and that those threats have 
changed during the cold war period—in 
particular, the threat of terrorism and 
the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction. If we look carefully at 
those threats, we can see that in this 
budget too much of the spending is not 
directly related to meeting those 
threats but, rather, continues with 
what I define as cold war priorities. 

We continue to pour billions of dollars 
into unnecessary cold war era 
weapons programs. We continue to 
maintain a nuclear arsenal that is 
completely disproportionate to the arsenals 
maintained by our potential adversaries—
an arsenal that could be 
substantially cut, resulting in dramatic 
savings, still providing for as 
strong a defense as we could ever need. 

Congress has also skewed spending 
priorities by refusing to close military 
bases that the Pentagon acknowledges 
are unneeded and obsolete and which 
the Pentagon itself has pressed to 
close. 

What is especially troubling about 
the spending in this budget is the Strategic 
Concepts—the two major regional 
conflicts concept and other uncertain 
scenarios—that are, I think, implausible 
and unlikely. I want to draw here 
on some excellent work done by analyst 
Carl Conetta and Charles Knight 
of the Project on Defense Alternatives 
in Cambridge, MA. 

Beginning in the 1980s, the focus of 
defense planners moved away from 
‘‘clear and present danger’’ of the Soviet 
power to the intractable problem 
of ‘‘uncertainty.’’ Along with the shift 
has come a new kind of Pentagon partisan—
the ‘‘uncertainty hawk.’’ The 
uncertainty hawks are engaged in 
worst-case thinking. Among the sort of 
nonstandard scenarios, worst-case scenarios 
that are, for example, talked 
about with this kind of doctrine are defending 
the Ukraine or the Baltics 
against Russia, civil wars in Russia 
and Algeria, a variety of wars in China, 
contention with Germany, and wars 
aligning Iraq and Syria against Turkey, 
and Iraq and Iran against Saudi 
Arabia. The Pentagon’s Quadrennial 
Defense Review, QDR, uses unnamed 
‘‘wild card’’ scenarios to help define 
these requirements. 

Now, although both the 1993 and 1997 
Defense Reviews link the two-war requirements 
to the Korean and Persian 
Gulf scenarios, these were also described 
merely as examples of possible 
wars. Officially, the two-war require-
ment—that we have to be able to fight 
two wars simultaneously—is generic. It 
is not tied directly to Korea or the 
gulf. As the Quadrennial Defense Review 
puts it, ‘‘We can never know with 
certainty when or where the next 

major theater war will occur’’ or ‘‘who 
our next adversary will be.’’ 

It is important to recognize, as opposed 
to appropriating moneys based 
upon this kind of strategic doctrine, 
that since 1945 the United States has 
fought only three major regional conflicts—
one every 15 or 20 years. The regional 
great powers and peer competitors 
that currently enthrall planners 
are only hypothetical constructs, and 
the world changes all of the time. 

I will give an example of a little bit 
more of this doctrine. The prime candidates, 
in addition to these uncertainty 
scenarios, worst-case scenarios, 
for future peer rival status, given current 
doctrine, are Russia and China. A 
dozen years of dedicated investment 
might resuscitate a significant portion 
of the Russian Armed Forces, but that 
certainly is not what we are looking at 
right now—a major military competitor, 
Russia. The Chinese ‘‘threat,’’ 
even given all of the developments we 
have been talking about over the last 
several weeks, is even more iffy. If China’s 
economy holds out, in 30 years it 
might be able to mount a ‘‘Sovietstyle’’ 
challenge. 

Surveying the prospects worldwide, a 
Defense Intelligence Agency analyst 
concludes that ‘‘no military or technical 
peer competitor to the United 
States is on the horizon for at least a 
couple of decades.’’ 

As I have said, I believe we should 
maintain a strong defense. We face a 
number of credible threats in the 
world, including terrorism and the proliferation 
of weapons of mass destruction. 
But let’s make sure we carefully 
identify the threats we face and tailor 
our defense spending to meet them. 
Let’s not continue to maintain military 
spending based on hypothetical 
threats that may not arise for decades—
if at all. 

I will argue as we look at this budget, 
which again makes up about one-
half of our discretionary spending, that 
we ought to consider this vote in the 
context of where we are heading with 
these budget caps. I say yes to a strong 
defense but no to some of the unnecessary 
spending that is in this budget; no 
to some of the scenarios that are laid 
out in this budget and some of the doctrines 
that undergird the spending in 
this budget, especially when we are 
talking about over 50 percent of discretionary 
spending going into this area. 

Whatever happened to the discussions 
we once had about national security 
at home? If we are going to spend 
50 percent of our discretionary budget 
on the Pentagon—and we are not going 
to do anything about these budget 
caps, and we will have to, in my view, 
take these caps off; there is no question 
about it. But on current course 
within this context of the budget we 
now have before us, we are going to 
spend over 50 percent of discretionary 
spending on the Pentagon. And, as a result, 
what are we not doing? We are not 
looking at the other part of our national 
defense. I argue that part of our 

real national security is the security of 
our local communities. 

Whatever happened to the idea that 
we were going to focus on early childhood 
development? Whatever happened 
to the priority that we were talking 
about as being so important to our 
country that we had to invest in the 
health, skills, intellect, and character 
of our children? Whatever happened to 
the importance of affordable child 
care? Whatever happened to the importance 
of decent health care coverage 
for people? 

In my State of Minnesota, 35 percent 
of senior citizens—that is it, 35 percent 
of senior citizens—have some prescription 
drug coverage. The other 65 percent 
have no coverage at all. Many of 
them are spending up to 40 percent of 
their budget just on these costs. Where 
is the funding going to be for that? 
Where is the funding going to be for 
the 44 million people who have no 
health insurance at all? 

Yesterday, we had a White House 
conference dealing with mental health. 
I would add substance abuse. I have 
been doing work with Senator DOMEN-
ICI—and proud to do so—on trying to 
deal with some discrimination and 
making sure that people get decent 
mental health coverage. 

How are we going to move forward to 
make sure there is decent health care 
coverage for people? How are we going 
to make sure there is affordable child 
care? What about affordable housing? 
How are we going to take the steps in 
our communities to reduce the violence 
and to be able to get to the kids— 
I think of the juvenile justice bill that 
we passed not more than a couple of 
weeks ago—before they get into trouble 
in the first place? How are we going 
to make sure that higher education is 
affordable? How are we going to make 
sure we have the best education for 
every child? 

I just simply want to say I am going 
to vote against this bill, and I am 
going to vote against this bill for two 
reasons, neither of which has anything 
to do with the two very distinguished 
Senators who are managing this bill. 

First of all, as I said, I think much of 
it goes beyond Kosovo. Much of it goes 
beyond our real national defense. I 
think too much of it is still based upon 
a cold war doctrine. I believe we can 
make cuts in the Pentagon budget and 
still have a strong defense. I have tried 
to lay out that case. 

Second of all, I am going to vote 
against this bill—I don’t think too 
many Senators are—because I view the 
vote on this appropriations bill in the 
context of the overall budget and 
where these appropriations bills are 
going. I view some of the dollars spent 
on the Pentagon as being dollars that 
we are not going to spend for affordable 
child care, that we are not going to 
spend to make sure there is decent education 
for our children, that we are not 
going to spend to make sure there is affordable 
housing. 

I argue that somewhere in the debate 
in the Senate we have to also look at 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6669 

real national security as not just being 
a strong defense as defined in this 
budget, which I am for, although I 
think a strong defense doesn’t necessitate 
all of the money we are spending, 
but, in addition, we have to think 
about real national security as the security 
of our local communities where 
—one more time, and I will finish on 
this—there is affordable child care— 
when are we going to get to that?— 
there is affordable housing, there is decent 
education, there is decent health 
care, where we don’t have one out of 
every four children under the age of 3 
growing up poor in our country, where 
we don’t have one out of every two 
children of color under the age of 3 
growing up poor in our country, and 
make sure that every child, no matter 
color of skin, or income, or rural, or 
urban, or boy or girl, can grow up 
dreaming to be President of the United 
States of America. 

I think that has to be part of the definition 
of our real national security. I 
think we have to make more decisive 
investments in these areas of public 
life in our Nation. 

I believe this appropriations bill, in 
the context of the budget, where these 
appropriations bills are going to, subtracts 
from that very important agenda 
as well. 

Let me finish one more time by being 
one of the Members of the Senate—I 
don’t know whether others will say—I 
think others will say this eventually— 
who says that right now we are in a fiscal 
straitjacket. We will not be able to 
live with these caps. We will be making 
a huge mistake if we don’t make some 
of the decisive investments I am talking 
about on the floor today. This will 
be a very shortsighted vision. We need 
to do much better as a nation going 
into the next century. And it can’t be 
just Pentagon spending; it always has 
to be to make sure that there is a 
peaceful opportunity for every child in 
our country. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alaska. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, it is 
about time to vote on the McCain 
amendment. We thought we would have 
another amendment offered by this 
time. But it has not been offered. I believe 
it is time we start voting on these 
amendments. 

I will state for the Chair that it is 
my intention to find some way to call 
up these amendments in the order they 
were presented and dispose of them 
now as quickly as we can. There is a 
vote on cloture tomorrow on the Y2K 
proposition. I assume that will carry. 
We certainly do not want to have this 
defense bill waiting around for the 
completion of a long process that is related 
to cloture. 

I urge Members to cooperate with us. 
I will inquire of Members as they come 
to the floor now on this vote as to 
when they will be able to present their 
amendments to see if we can find some 
way to get some time limitations. It is 

possible, I believe, to finish this bill tonight 
with the cooperation of Members 
of the Senate. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 589, AS MODIFIED 

Mr. STEVENS. I call up amendment 
No. 589. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. I send to the desk a 
second-degree amendment. It will modify 
this amendment in a way that is acceptable 
to both sides. I ask that this 
amendment, as modified, be agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, the amendment is 
agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 589), as modified, 
was agreed to, as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds made available in 
Title IV of this Act under the heading ‘‘Research, 
Development, Test And Evaluation, 
Navy’’, up to $3,000,000 may be made available 
to continue research and development 
on polymer cased ammunition. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I move 
to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative assistant proceeded 
to call the roll. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 588 AND 591, EN BLOC 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
that the Chair lay before the Senate 
amendments Nos. 588 and 591, and I ask 
they be considered en bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The question is on agreeing to the 
amendments. 

The amendments (Nos. 588 and 591) 
were agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. I move to reconsider 
the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I move to table the motion. 


The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 584 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, the 
chairman and ranking member spoke 
eloquently about the merits of several 
projects in this bill that affect their 
States. As I have said before, I don’t 
pretend to judge the merit of each and 
every project on the list of objectionable 
materials. I do, however, object to 
the process by which these projects 
were added to this bill, the process that 
circumvented the normal and appropriate 
merit-based review for determining 
the highest priority not only in 
defense but across all appropriations 
bills. 

I want to clarify something the 
chairman said: In this list, it does 
not—repeat, does not—include funding 
for the SBIRS program on the Israeli 
arrow missile defense program. There 
is no reduction in funding for those 
programs. 

Finally, my colleagues know the 
military service chiefs testified to Congress 
earlier this year that they need 
more than $17 billion every year in 
order to redress several readiness 
shortfalls. This bill falls about $6 billion 
short of that goal. This amendment 
would restore $13 billion in high-
priority readiness and modernization 
funds to help meet the services’ needs, 
offsetting every time with low-priority 
spending cuts. 

I emphasize they came over and said 
they needed $17 billion. We are not 
meeting that minimal request. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I must 
oppose the Senator’s amendment. I 
think it will change the direction we 
are going in terms of how to meet the 
pressing needs of the Department of 
Defense and, at the same time, balance 
those needs against the rest of the 
needs of the country. 

I urge that this amendment be defeated. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the amendment. 
The yeas and nays have been ordered. 


The clerk will call the roll. 
The legislative clerk called the roll. 
Mr. NICKLES. I announce that the 

Senator from New Hampshire (Mr. 
GREGG) and the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. CRAPO) are necessarily absent. 

Mr. REID. I announce that the Senator 
from Delaware (Mr. BIDEN) is absent 
due to a death in the family. 

The result was announced—yeas 16, 
nays 81, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 156 Leg.] 

YEAS—16 
Allard Gramm McCain 
Bayh Grams Robb 
Brownback Hagel Torricelli 
Edwards Kerry Wellstone 
Feingold Kyl 
Graham Lugar 
NAYS—81 
Abraham Baucus Bond 
Akaka Bennett Boxer 
Ashcroft Bingaman Breaux 


S6670 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

Bryan Harkin Murkowski 
Bunning Hatch Murray 
Burns Helms Nickles 
Byrd Hollings Reed 
Campbell Hutchinson Reid 
Chafee Hutchison Roberts 
Cleland Inhofe Rockefeller 
Cochran Inouye Roth 
Collins Jeffords Santorum 
Conrad Johnson Sarbanes 
Coverdell Kennedy Schumer 
Craig Kerrey Sessions 
Daschle Kohl Shelby 
DeWine Landrieu Smith (NH) 
Dodd Lautenberg Smith (OR) 
Domenici Leahy Snowe 
Dorgan Levin Specter 
Durbin Lieberman Stevens 
Enzi Lincoln Thomas 
Feinstein Lott Thompson 
Fitzgerald Mack Thurmond 
Frist McConnell Voinovich 
Gorton Mikulski Warner 
Grassley Moynihan Wyden 

NOT VOTING—3 

Biden Crapo Gregg 

The amendment (No. 584) was rejected. 


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I move 
to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. LEAHY. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

PRIVILEGE OF THE FLOOR 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that Bill Adkins, a 
legislative fellow on Senator ABRAHAM’s 
staff, be granted privileges of the 
floor during the Senate’s consideration 
of this bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, there 
are so many fellows being admitted 
that I am going to ask on the next one 
that comes up that all fellows that are 
working with Senators be limited to 
not more than 1 hour each on the floor 
during the consideration of this bill. 
Those chairs in the back of the Senate 
are for people who are working with us 
on this bill. 

Mrs. BOXER addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

AMENDMENT NO. 541 

Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I will 
take a little time to explain this 
amendment and to say that the primary 
coauthor of it is Senator HARKIN 
from Iowa. A cosponsor is Senator 
WYDEN. 

I ask unanimous consent that Senator 
FEINGOLD also be added as a cosponsor 
of the amendment and that his 
statement be placed in the RECORD at 
the appropriate place. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I am 
happy to listen to the comments of the 
Senator. On the second page, it says, 
‘‘. . .and the relevancy of the missions 
of aircraft to warfighting requirements.’’ 


It is the position of the committee 
that the aircraft we are talking about 
are for basically multimission functions 
and are really not designed for 
warfighting requirements. They are designed 
for transportation, basically to 

meet normal needs. If the Senator 
would delete that last clause, we will 
be happy to accept the amendment. 

Mrs. BOXER. I just want a moment, 
if I may confer with my friend. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I have 
been told there is an objection to my 
suggestion, so I withdraw it. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California is recognized. 

Mrs. BOXER. Thank you, Mr. President. 
I will look at this because I have 
not asked for the yeas and nays at this 
time. We may well delete that particular 
part of the amendment. As a 
matter of fact, we will probably take 
care of that problem. 

Mr. President, this amendment is a 
very important amendment. We basically 
say that the provision in the bill 
for leasing six luxury executive jets for 
military generals will be essentially 
deleted. These are the same kinds of 
executive jets that are used by, frankly, 
billionaires, CEOs of the biggest 
multinational corporations. I think 
providing additional executive jets to 
the military’s fleet of over 100 Gulf-
stream, Lear, and Cessna jets sends the 
wrong signal to our young men and 
women in the military and reflects 
misguided spending priorities by this 
Congress. 

I want to tell you—and I know the 
Senator from Iowa would agree—it 
wasn’t easy to find this gold-plated 
pork. To say it was buried in this bill 
is an understatement. It was like finding 
a needle in a haystack. It is so disguised, 
there is no direct mention of 
the Gulfstream aircraft anywhere in 
the bill. They are being leased for the 
first time, I think, because it disguises 
the cost, which is enormous—when I 
get into it, I will tell you. It is about 
$39 million for one of these executive 
jets, compared to the executive jet that 
is in the fleet now that costs $5.4 million, 
which is very fancy, and that one 
is the Cessna Citation Ultra. This one 
is the Gulfstream; this is the gold-plated 
version. 

The New York Times points out that 
leasing these jets costs taxpayers 
about $145 million more than buying 
these jets. But I have to tell you, if you 
lease them, it is hard to find them in 
the bill. 

In order to find out what is going to 
be leased, we had to call the Air Force 
and get a fact sheet that clearly says 
the jets will be leased, and they will be 
top-of-the-line Gulfstream V jets. 
Again, nowhere in this bill do you see 
Gulfstream V or a description of these 
jets. If you read page 142—that is where 
the authority comes from—this is what 
it says. This is literally the last page of 
this bill, page 142: 

Aircraft leasing. Inserts a provision to provide 
the Air Force the necessary authority 
to negotiate leases for support aircraft. 

That is it. Support aircraft. No one 
would know that these were the Gulf-
stream jets that were stripped out of 
the emergency supplemental bill. You 
could not tell. But the Air Force told 
us right upfront and very honestly. 

They sent us over a fact sheet and we 
found out that is what these were 
about. 

Many of us here in the Senate—myself 
included—have said we are willing 
to provide additional funds for the Defense 
Department to improve recruitment 
and retention to fix shortfalls in 
training and spare parts and address 
quality of life issues, including family 
housing and health care for our military 
personnel. I think the Senate has 
done a commendable job in addressing 
many of these shortfalls: A 4.8-percent 
pay increase, improving the retirement 
system, increasing retention benefits. 

I strongly supported each and every 
one of those initiatives. However, we 
have more to do. It is shocking to some 
people to know that we have military 
people on food stamps. The Senator 
from Iowa led the fight in the authorization 
bill to point out that our personnel 
overseas needed to be part of 
the WIC Program—the Women, Infants 
and Children Program—to give their 
children cheese and milk to survive. So 
how do we now come up with almost, I 
might say, $1/2 million over the 10-year 
period to lease the fanciest executive 
jets that you can find? Until we are totally 
convinced—and from my point of 
view not even then—should we even 
consider this kind of an expenditure? 

What is it for? So four-star generals 
can travel throughout the world in the 
greatest of comfort. I love to fly in 
comfort. I fly across the country almost 
every week. It is hard. I fly commercial 
and sometimes I sit in coach 
and sometimes I use my upgrades and 
sit in business class. It is wearing and 
hard, but it is fine. You don’t need to 
spend $39 million on a plane, or lease it 
at even a higher cost to do the business 
the military requires you to do. It is 
really a question of priorities. We have 
done a lot for our enlisted personnel, 
but still we need to do more. Yet, we 
are doing this in this bill. I am very 
hopeful that the chairman—if we remove 
that one part from our amend-
ment—will be able to join us in support 
of this amendment. 

There may be some objection. But I 
hope we can agree to drop this. 

Our military personnel often live in 
family housing that needs replacement 
or repair. This is a priority. 

I was looking at the amendment offered 
by the Senate from Arizona. I almost 
supported it until the chairman 
explained to me exactly what was happening. 
Sometimes Members understand 
these things. We look in our own 
areas. We see the deficiencies. I think 
that if Members want to put something 
in to improve the quality of life of the 
people they represent in the military, 
it is appropriate. But I don’t think this 
is appropriate. 

Let me quote from the May 24 issue 
of Defense Week. This is talking about 
the emergency supplemental. 

The New York Times has exposed the bills’ 
buried aircraft language . . . this raised lawmakers’ 
concerns that appropriators would 
appear even softer on pork than they already 
seemed. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6671 

If the committee thought this was 
pork and did not belong in this emergency 
appropriations bill, then I say it 
is still pork now. It is just in another 
vehicle. But pork is pork. 

What is especially troubling is that 
this leasing authority could cost more 
than buying the six aircraft outright. 
Again, the New York times says that 
leasing the jets costs $476 million 
—that is almost $.5 billion over 10 
years—while buying them would cost 
$333 million. I do my subtraction. That 
is a $143 million difference. 

Here is how the Gulfstream company 
described these particular jets. This is 
the company that would get the sale of 
these jets: 

The Gulfstream V includes an evolution in 
cabin design that minimizes the inherent 
strain of long-range travel. From the 100-percent 
fresh air control system, to the comfortably 
maintained 6,000-foot cabin altitude 
at 51,000 feet, to cabin size—the longest in 
the industry—the Gulfstream V provides an 
interior environment unmatched in transoceanic 
business travel. 

Make no mistake, this is the top of 
the line in executive jets—$37 million 
per plane. For $30 million less per 
plane—for example, a Cessna Citation 
Ultra at $5.4 million—we could save a 
tremendous amount of money. 

My amendment replaces this authority 
to lease executive jets with the request 
that the DOD provide some basic 
information about these aircraft. I will 
be happy to work with the chairman if 
he wants me to change some of that 
language. But we basically called for, 
in essence, a study to tell us why we 
would need these planes and what 
other planes could do the job that 
these planes do. 

By the way, in Defense Week, they 
called this the ‘‘Go to Meetings Plane.’’ 
These planes are used to go to meetings. 
It is described that way in Defense 
Week. 

We want to ask these questions: 

How many of the missions require a 
top-of-the-line executive jet? 

What wartime requirements make 
the number of jets needed so high? 

We will be glad to drop that, if the 
chairman doesn’t like that language, 
but a GAO study looked at the gulf war 
and found very few were used in that 
theater. 

What is the cost comparison if we 
lease less expensive jets? 

Are there existing aircraft in the 
fleet that can meet these mission requirements 
or that can be modified to 
meet these requirements? 

On another level, and without having 
to bring it to the Senate, I am going to 
personally send GAO a letter to look at 
this as well. 

I think we need to step back and reexamine 
our priorities. The 106th Congress 
is increasing defense at a fast 
rate. There are many people who make 
the case as to why that should be so. 
But I think since we are increasing the 
defense budget while we are decreasing 
the domestic budget, it really falls on 
us to make sure that what we spend is 
necessary. 

I don’t have to tell Chairman STEVENS, 
because he has to deal with the 
aggravation of these nondefense discretionary 
program cuts overall of $21 billion. 
I serve on the Budget Committee. 
I know how hard it is going to be when 
you get to the civilian side of the budget. 
Right now, a 9-percent decrease in 
domestic spending is going to be facing 
the appropriators. What does that 9percent 
cut mean? It means devastating 
cuts in many programs. The 
Labor-HHS bill is cut 13 percent. This 
could hurt programs. We don’t know 
where they are going to cut. But it 
could hurt programs like Head Start; 
the Centers for Disease Control; Job 
Corps; summer jobs, which helps keeps 
kids out of trouble in the summer 
months; and dislocated worker assistance. 


The point is that we are cutting in 
other areas. We shouldn’t be expending 
this kind of money—$.5 billion—over 10 
years, on these jets. 

The transportation bill already reported 
cripples the Federal Aviation 
Administration’s program to increase 
safety and capacity. The bill cuts the 
modernization program by $273 million 
from the President’s request, meaning 
that automation in radar systems will 
be delayed, at best, and perhaps will 
never happen at our civilian airports. 

In addition, the Transportation Subcommittee 
rescinded $300 million from 
prior year funding for FAA modernization. 


What am I saying? 

On the civilian side, we are seeing 
America fail. We are not going to be 
providing the highest level of safety for 
our airports. But what do we do? We 
spend this kind of money. 

I see my friend from Iowa is on his 
feet. I am going to finish in 60 seconds. 

What do our veterans tell us? Our 
veterans tell us that they need more 
national cemeteries. The VA-HUD bill 
is cut by 15 percent. 

I will tell you right now, I think it 
would be a wise thing if we cut these 
leased aircraft out and looked at these 
needs on the civilian side of Federal 
aviation and if we looked at the need 
to build new veterans cemeteries. It is 
actually reaching a crisis point. We 
note the D-Day invasion. We commemorate 
that anniversary. Yet, we 
don’t do all we should in that area. 

I think we should get real with this 
budget. I commend my colleagues on 
the committee. I am very fond of them. 
They do a good job. But I think this is 
one area where we could really save 
some large dollars, and I think we can 
do better things with those dollars. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. GORTON). 
The Senator from Iowa is recognized. 


Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, I am 
joining with Senator BOXER in offering 
this amendment to strike the provision 
that allows the Pentagon to lease six of 
these executive aircraft. The military 
designation is C–37A. We know them as 
Gulfstreams in the civilian world. They 

are very lavish and very nice aircraft. 
In fact, I will show you what we are 
talking about. 

This is a Gulfstream V. It is a very 
nice airplane. I am sure that millionaires 
who have made a lot of money in 
the stock market probably have those. 
Billionaires have them. I am sure they 
fly them around. It is a very nice, luxurious 
aircraft. All of the statistics are 
very good on that aircraft. It is quiet. 
It flies high. It goes long distances nonstop. 
It is quite luxurious on the inside. 

As you can see, this is a very nice 
business executive jet. I wouldn’t deny 
that it is a good tool for a lot of businesses 
to use in fact. I am not here to 
say that Gulfstream V is a bad aircraft, 
or that it shouldn’t be built, or that 
there is no reason to have this in anybody’s 
inventory—not in the least. 
This aircraft serves a very valuable 
purpose for a lot of businesses here and 
around the world. In fact, the Gulf-
stream corporation has to be a good 
corporation, for all I know, and builds 
a pretty darned good airplane. That is 
not our point. 

Our point is—the more I have looked 
into this the more it has become apparent 
to me—that all branches of the 
military have become top-heavy, not 
only top-heavy in terms of the command 
structure itself but top-heavy in 
the number of executive jets they have 
to ferry them around from place to 
place. I am beginning to wonder if 
these are really all that necessary. Are 
they really for wartime use, or are 
they really more for just convenience? 

For example—I will get more into 
this in detail later—we are told that a 
lot of these executive jets such as this 
can go 4,000 or 5,000 miles without refueling, 
as necessary to get to theaters 
of operation around the world. But the 
fact is, during the gulf war operations 
very few of these were used. We have to 
ask the question: Is it really for the 
benefit of generals to use for rapid 
movement during war, or is it more for 
convenience in peacetime? 

As the Senator from California said, 
we have a lot of budget problems here 
at the military. I, for one, have been 
trying to do something about getting 
WIC programs, as the Senator said, for 
our military personnel overseas. It is a 
blot on our national character and on 
our military that we have military personnel 
on food stamps. That is not 
right. It is not right that we have enlisted 
personnel who need the Women, 
Infants and Children Supplemental 
Feeding Program. 

Last year, the Senator from California 
and I tried to offer an amendment 
here that would say at least when 
they go overseas they get the same 
WIC Program as they got here. If I am 
not mistaken, I think it came to the 
grand total of right around $5 to $20 
million. The military said they 
couldn’t afford to do it, but they can 
afford $40 million for six of these aircraft. 
Something is wrong when the 
military says they can’t afford it, that 
the Department of Agriculture has to 


S6672 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

pay for it; the Defense Department 
can’t, but they can afford a business jet 
such as this. That got me when I saw 
that. Something has to be done about 
this. 

I understand they want to lease several 
of these Gulfstream V aircraft. I 
would like to have one to go back and 
forth to Iowa. I wouldn’t have to go 
through Chicago anymore—probably 
nonstop right to Iowa. The Senator 
from California could use one, get on 
the jet right here and go to any airport 
in California nonstop. 

Let me show you the interior of the 
aircraft: A nice, luxurious interior. 
Lean back, have your own personal TV 
set, a glass of wine. That is pretty nice 
travel. 

Again, I am not saying that we have 
to strip down everything, that a general 
has to ride in a harness on a side 
bucket strapped onto a C–130. That is 
not what I am saying. There probably 
is a need for some of these aircraft to 
transport these people rapidly. My 
question has to do with the number of 
aircraft. 

For example, I note that there are 
now over 300 aircraft in inventory, over 
150 jets. I can’t quite get an accurate 
count. Last time I counted, there were 
154 jets, 70 Learjets. Regarding the C–9, 
the same as a Douglas DC–9, the Navy 
has 27, the Marines have 2, and the Air 
Force has 5. Gulfstreams, we have 16 
already. We have some Gulfstream IIIs 
and IVs, the predecessor to the Gulf-
stream V. They are about as nice, but 
they can’t go as far. They are a good 
airplane. We have 70 Learjets total; 
727s, we have 3. I am reading just the 
jets. And I didn’t realize we already 
have two Gulfstream Vs in our inventory. 
Cessna Citation 560, which is pictured 
here, is a pretty nice jet, not 
quite as big as the Gulfstream V and 
doesn’t go as far, but we have 14 of 
those. The old Saberliners, we have 
three still in existence. We have seven 
707s in our inventory. 

There are quite a lot of jets to be flying 
around. Again, I am wondering, 
with the inventory that we have, why 
do we have to lease seven more? Or are 
we cutting back on some of the aircraft? 
Again, they may serve a legitimate 
purpose, but I am wondering, and 
I go back to a GAO report that the Senator 
referred to from 1995, ‘‘Travel by 
Senior Officials,’’ dated June 1995. One 
of the their recommendations in that 
report was to develop the appropriate 
mechanisms to ensure the availability 
of each service’s aircraft to help fulfill 
the OSA, operation support needs, of 
other services. The third recommendation, 
reassign or otherwise dispose of 
excess OSA aircraft. 

Now, the chairman and ranking 
member may know better than I, but it 
seems to me that a lot of the services 
have the aircraft and they just don’t go 
from one service to the other. It seems 
to me what we really need is an effective 
structure in DOD that puts these 
business jets and other aircraft under 
one operational command that really 

works. If a senior officer in the Navy 
needed one for something, they should 
go to this command to get it; Marines 
the same, Air Force—all this would be 
the same. The Navy/Marine should go 
to one central structure to get the aircraft 
and have them assigned from that 
structure. That is how it should work. 

It looks as though we are in the same 
old military gamesmanship: Air Force, 
‘‘I got mine’’; Navy, ‘‘I got mine.’’ The 
Navy has Navy markings and the Air 
Force has Air Force markings and the 
Army has Army markings and never 
the twain shall meet. 

I am curious as to how much money 
we waste and how much operational 
support aircraft we waste because we 
don’t have that one effective integrated 
command structure working as 
it should. That was the suggestion 
made by GAO in 1995. If nothing else 
comes out of this, I hope we might 
move ahead in some way to provide an 
effective overall operational structure. 

I said earlier that there is a DOD Directive 
4500.43 that requires that OSA 
aircraft inventories must be based on 
wartime needs. However, few OSA aircraft 
were used in theater during the 
Persian Gulf war. 

From the GAO report: 

Actual use of OSA aircraft during the Persian 
gulf war suggests that the primary role 
of OSA is not wartime support but peacetime 
support. 

Again, I quoted that from the GAO 
report of June of 1995. 

Mrs. BOXER. Will the Senator yield? 

Mr. HARKIN. I am delighted to yield 

for a question. 

Mrs. BOXER. I know the Senator was 
a pilot in the military and I know he 
understands aircraft. 

Mr. HARKIN. I think I do. 

Mrs. BOXER. And I know he understands 
that these jets we are talking 
about are not fighting machines; they 
are go-to-meetings machines. 

Mr. HARKIN. If I might interrupt, 
these are what in common nomenclature 
would be called executive business 
jets, converted. For example, in 
military terms, they call it a C–37 but 
it is really a Gulfstream V. 

Mrs. BOXER. My friend showed a 
couple of photos of the Gulfstream and 
then a photo of the Cessna Citation. 

Mr. HARKIN. Cessna Citation Ultra. 
By the way, it is a very good plane. 

Mrs. BOXER. It is my understanding 
that the Cessna Citation Ultra costs 
$5.4 million a copy, according to the 
Appropriations Committee, and that 
the cost on the Gulfstream V is about 
$39 million. 

This is transportation for the highest 
level of military officers. My friend 
pointed out that we have a gap growing 
here between those at the bottom of 
the economic ladder in the military 
and those at the top. We know that 
will always be the case, but it seems to 
me it is exacerbated with this kind of 
situation. 

I want to ask my friend if he believes 
that a top general could fly comfortably 
in a $5.4 million plane as opposed 
to a $39 million plane? 

What we are doing is simply asking 
for a study to see if we can accommodate 
the needs of the generals in a 
cheaper way. 

Mr. HARKIN. The basic answer to 
that is, yes—depending on the mission, 
of course. 

Now, if a general or a four-star wanted 
to fly from here nonstop to Europe, 
they couldn’t take this airplane which 
only has about a 2,000-mile leg. However, 
I might add, it could fly to Reykjavik 
and refuel. It can fly to Shannon 
and refuel. It will take an hour and 
a half or more; you have to land, refuel, 
and get out of there. But it is perfectly 
capable of doing that. A lot of 
businesses fly these overseas all the 
time. You just have to stop and refuel 
in one place, that is all. It even has a 
bathroom on board. 

Mrs. BOXER. If I may ask my friend, 
isn’t it possible to base some of these 
planes in Europe, base them in different 
places, which is what they do 
anyway, so it is more convenient to 
make the switch? 

Mr. HARKIN. I appreciate the Senator 
asking that question because I 
think it points up—first of all, I am not 
saying we do not need any of this; I am 
saying we do need some of these planes. 
I was talking with the chairman about 
this. Let’s say a four-star officer has to 
go from Washington to Florida to 
Texas to Chicago for a series of meetings. 
He possibly cannot do it with a civilian 
plane. I understand that, if one 
has to go overseas for a certain meeting 
and get back. There are times when 
you cannot use civilian airplanes. But 
this type of a jet could be used for any 
kind of domestic travel in the continental 
United States. You might have 
to land and refuel. That does not bother 
me a whole heck of a lot. 

I am saying with the Gulfstream Vs 
that we have now—which I said we 
have two or so right now in inventory, 
plus we have a number of Gulfstream 
IVs and Gulfstream IIIs—let’s say a 
general needed to get from the Pentagon 
to someplace overseas in a big 
hurry for something. OK, requisition 
one of them and use it for that. But if 
they have to go to Florida and then to 
Texas and then to California and make 
all these meetings, use one of these 
smaller aircraft because they are going 
to land anyway, while they are at the 
meeting, they can refuel, take off and 
go. It is a much cheaper way of operating. 


I seriously question whether we need 
six Gulfstream Vs for whatever purpose 
they are asking—I really question 
that—and I question whether or not 
other versions of aircraft like this or 
others can be used more for domestic 
travel. 

I have a letter to Chairman STEVENS 
dated March 8, 1999, from the Deputy 
Secretary of Defense, Mr. Hamre, and 
General Ralston, U.S. Air Force. I was 
reading it over and was struck by a 
paragraph. It is an assessment of CINC 
support aircraft. This was required by 
the Senate Appropriations Committee 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6673 

report last year. I was struck by this 
paragraph which says: 

This study evaluated all military and representative 
commercial aircraft to determine 
which aircraft would both be 
configurable and available for CINC support 

airlift. 

It goes on. This is the paragraph: 

The study revealed that when CINC— 

Commanders in Chief— 
requirements, combined long, unrefueled 
range—4,200 to 6,000 nautical miles—more 
than 18 passengers and short runway capabilities—
5,000 to 7,000 feet—a modern commercial 
aircraft was needed. 

I find it interesting. If you go to the 
CINCs and ask, ‘‘What are your requirements?’’ 
and they define their requirements, 
guess what. They meet the 
requirements of the Gulfstream V. If 
you ask me what my requirements are 
to fly around the United States, I bet I 
can come up with a set of determinants 
that I need a Gulfstream V: I travel a 
lot; I go to the coast once in a while; I 
am always in Iowa; sometimes I have 
to be in one place for a meeting and 
then another place for a meeting. I 
would love to have a Gulfstream V. 
And I have short runways, too, sometimes. 


It is not surprising that we ask the 
CINCs, ‘‘What do you need?’’ and they 
then define their needs and come up 
with Gulfstream Vs. It seems to me we 
ought to have someone else defining 
the needs rather than the commanders 
in chief, because they are the ones who 
use the aircraft. 

They said: 

Based on historical CINC support aircraft 
usage and future requirements, and dis


counting the probable need of backup aircraft 
inventory, seven C–37A aircraft— 
that is the Gulfstream V— 
should minimally satisfy the existing CINC 

requirements. 

What I cannot figure out—does the 
Senator from California know?—is, 
how many CINCs are there? Do we 
know how many CINCs there are? 

Mrs. BOXER. Nine. 

Mr. HARKIN. There are nine CINCs, 
so we are getting seven Gulfstream Vs 
for nine CINCs. 

Mrs. BOXER. Plus all the other aircraft 
that are in the inventory. 

Mr. STEVENS. Regular order, Mr. 
President, regular order. 

Mr. HARKIN. I asked the Senator to 
answer a question. I asked the Senator 
to respond to a question. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Iowa has the floor, and he 
can only yield to the Senator from 
California for a question. 

Mr. HARKIN. I can ask a question of 
the Senator from California, I believe. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That requires 
the Senator from Iowa to yield 
the floor. 

Mrs. BOXER. I ask a question of my 
friend, since that is the rule and that is 
being strictly enforced today, and I appreciate 
that. Does the Senator not 
agree that adding six more of these 
luxury planes, which would give us a 
total of nine Gulfstream Vs—we would 

have nine Gulfstream Vs; that is, one 
for each of the commanders, plus an inventory 
of other planes that include 
Learjets and Cessnas—does he not believe 
that this is going overboard in 
terms of the priorities we should have? 

I agree with my friend, and I ask him 
this question as well: We are saying 
that we are very willing to give the 
generals what they need, but it is a 
matter of whether you get the gold-
plated version or a very solid version, 
and isn’t that what we are really talking 
about? 

Mr. HARKIN. I think the Senator has 
put her finger on it: We are willing to 
give the generals what they need but 
not what they want. 

Mrs. BOXER. Interesting. 

Mr. HARKIN. They may want to 
travel in this kind of luxury, but I am 
not certain we ought to just give it to 
them. There are nine CINCs. Each one 
now would have their own Gulfstream 

V. Do we know what the per-hour operating 
cost is of a Gulfstream V? As best 
I can determine, the per-hour operating 
cost is over $2,000. I think it is actually 
higher than that, because I do not 
think that takes into account depreciation; 
I think that is just fuel and other 
requirements. 
Let’s just say it is $2,000 an hour. A 
four-star officer gets on one of those 
Gulfstream Vs and flies 2 hours someplace 
for a meeting and 2 hours back; 
that is 4 hours, $8,000 just to go to a 
meeting someplace and come back. 
That is a good use of taxpayers’ dollars? 


I will lay you odds that 7 times out of 
10 that four-star officer could go right 
out here to National Airport or Dulles, 
get on an airplane, and get a first-class 
ticket—How much is a first-class ticket?—
fly to that meeting, and fly back 
for less than $1,000. 

I ask you: When is the last time you 
ever got on a commercial aircraft in 
the United States flying anywhere and 
saw a general or admiral on that plane? 
I cannot remember when. I see a lot of 
lieutenants and commanders and captains, 
but I never see an admiral or 
general. Then again, why would you? 
They are on their Gulfstream Vs, 
jetting around. 

I am not saying there is never a purpose—
there may be—but I think this is 
just a little bit too much. There are 
about 36 four-star officers in the U.S. 
military, I am told—about 36 four-star 
officers—and for that, we have over 154 
jets in inventory to fly people around. 
What is going on here? 

In fact, I know our proposal only 
deals with the Gulfstreams, but if I am 
not mistaken, the bill also provides for 
the purchase of five additional C–35s. 

Mrs. BOXER. That is correct. 

Mr. HARKIN. Those are the Cessnas. 
We are already going to buy five of 
these, and we are going to lease six 
more of the Gulfstream Vs. So it is not 
just the Gulfstream Vs. The Navy already 
has six Gulfstreams, the Air 
Force already has Gulfstreams, and, as 
I said, 70 Learjets, C–21s. 

I remember one time when I went on 
a congressional trip—was I still in the 
House or the Senate? I can’t remember. 
I may have been in the Senate. We 
went to Central America. It was during 
that war in Central America. 

We flew from here to Florida, to 
MacDill, refueled, and we were in a little 
Lear. There were about six or seven 
of us crammed into that thing with no 
bathroom. But obviously, because of 
my Senate duties, I had to get down 
there to go on a trip that could not be 
done commercially. So we went from 
here to MacDill, refueled, then went to 
Guatemala and Honduras; and then I 
think we went to El Salvador; then we 
went to Panama City, had to refuel 
again, fly to MacDill, refuel again, and 
then fly home. 

I tell you, it was not that comfortable 
a flight if you are one of those 
in a little Lear, six or seven people 
crammed in there. For a Senator, that 
is fine. I bet you a general or admiral 
would never do that. But we had staff. 
We had committee staff along with us. 

I am just saying, sometimes if you 
are going to do these things, sometimes 
you have to put up with that. 
There is no way I could have done it 
commercially, so I had to take a military 
aircraft. You do not have to go in 
elaborate luxury every single time. 

That is my point. I do not think 
there is a critical shortage of these executive 
jets that should take precedence 
over the immediate needs of our 
military. 

Besides the sheer numbers of aircraft 
in each of the armed services indicating 
there is no shortfall, again, I repeat 
from the 1995 GAO report that said 
the armed services should ‘‘develop the 
appropriate mechanisms to ensure the 
availability of each service’s aircraft 
to help fulfill the OSA needs of the 
other services.’’ In other words, the 
GAO concluded the armed services 
needed to learn to share. This is a simple 
concept that should be used to relieve 
any conceivable strain on the 
number of executive aircraft. 

The Pentagon counters this sensible 
solution by claiming that existing aircraft 
are being fully used. However, the 
GAO also found that DOD’s operational 
support aircraft fleet ‘‘far exceeds any 
possible wartime requirement.’’ 

The Defense Week article that the 
Senator from California referred to of 
May 24, 1999, had some interesting 
things in it. They said: 

In particular, the article said, ‘‘There are 
about 600 to 800 users in the DC area authorized 
to request SAM [VIP Special Air Mission] 
support for missions’’ which meet prescribed 
criteria. 

As I understand, that does not include 
Senators and Congressmen. At 
least that is what I am told. When I 
first read there are 600 to 800 authorized 
users for VIP special air missions, 
I thought that must include the 435 
Members of the House and the 100 Senators. 
I am told that is not so. 

I am wondering, who are these 600 to 
800 people? I am wondering if some of 


S6674 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

these jets are being used for less than 
really vital needs and perhaps could be 
used to meet the needs of the military 
CINCs. 

Again, quoting from the Defense 
Week article of May 24: 

Brig. Gen. Arthur Lichte, the Air Force’s 
director of global-reach programs, says these 
support aircraft are all meeting other requirements 
[all these other aircraft that we 
have in inventory] so [they] could not be 
used by the commanders. 

Again, I am wondering, why not? 
What are these other requirements? If 
the commanders cannot use them, who 
is using them? 

Hamre says most of these support aircraft 
are too small for commanders’ staffs. Plus, 
the four-stars need to be able to fly non-stop 
intercontinental trips while staying in contact 
with the president. 

I am not so certain about that. I am 
not certain that a refueling stop in 
Shannon is all that burdensome. 

The article goes on to say: 

Some on Capitol Hill respond that the 
CINCs could get by with smaller staffs on 
board and could live with refueling stops, but 
Hamre and Lichte don’t agree. 

I do not know why not. I know a lot 
of times we go on congressional fact-
finding trips. We stop and refuel different 
places. I don’t know why generals 
can’t. They can still be in contact. 
That does not stop your contact 
with the White House, simply because 
you land and refuel—not at all. 

What about the existing support fleet? 

‘‘No,’’ Hamre said, ‘‘we don’t have aircraft 
that can fly from here to the Persian Gulf. I 
suppose you could go on a C–12. You could island-
hop like you did in World War II, but I 
mean that doesn’t make any sense. This big 
inventory of 500 [operational support aircraft]—
most of them are tiny airplanes, four-
passenger, six-passenger kind of airplanes.’’ 

That is just not so. These are not 
four-passenger airplanes. 

Mrs. BOXER. Isn’t it eight? 

Mr. HARKIN. These are eight right 
here. How much staff does a general 
have to take with him when he goes to 
a meeting? I would like to find that 
out. 

He said, ‘‘The CINCs aren’t [even] 
happy they have to live with a 12 passenger 
aircraft.’’ 

Again I ask, how much staff do they 
need to take to these meetings they go 
to? 

So, again, the Senator from California 
and I have this amendment that 
says basically: We ought to put this 
lease aside. Let’s take a look at this. 
Let’s get a good report in. Do these 
really meet the warmaking needs of 
the Pentagon? 

Plus, I do not know where the facts 
lie on this one, but I will just say that, 
according to the New York Times, the 
lease will cost the taxpayers more than 
$475 million over 10 years. Purchasing 
the planes may prove cheaper. Some 
say purchasing is going to cost more; 
some say it will cost less. But we do 
know that for these aircraft, for the 
cost of the aircraft, plus the operation 
of them over the next 10 years, it is 
going to come in at somewhere—— 

Mrs. BOXER. Over $400 million. 

Mr. HARKIN. I think the lease is 
going to cost over $475 million. And 
then there are operational costs. Now 
you are up to $600 or $700 million over 
the next 10 years just for these aircraft. 
That may be small change to the 
Pentagon, which is used to operating 
with $270 billion budgets, but that is a 
lot of money for our taxpayers. I just 
do not know where the facts lie in 
whether or not leasing is better than 
purchasing. 

We have seen very little information 
as to the cost tradeoffs of leasing 
versus purchasing. We have not seen a 
full report from the Pentagon covering 
all possible options to cover these 
CINCs’ needs, nor do we have much information 
as to the needs of the military 
for all of these such aircraft. That 
is why our amendment requires a report 
detailing the requirements and options 
for such aircraft as an important 
first step. We do not have that. 

Quite frankly, regardless of how our 
amendment fares, I say to the chairman, 
and others, I plan to come back 
to this issue, along with my colleague 
from California, year after year, until 
we get a clearer picture. How many 
flights do senior officers take with senior 
executive aircraft? We do not even 
know that. What are the costs? What 
are the per-hour costs? What are the 
costs for that trip? Could that trip 
have been utilized with an alternative 
such as commercial aircraft? At what 
cost savings? Could some of these aircraft 
be sold off as excess aircraft if we 
better managed the total number of executive 
aircraft that we have? 

For example, we know that senior officials 
and officers fly from base to 
base and facility to facility. They fly 
from Andrews Air Force Base to NAS 
Jacksonville or to MacDill or to other 
air bases around the country. Could 
you utilize commercial aircraft for 
that? Sometimes yes; sometimes no. 
But we need to ensure that the DOD is 
looking for cheaper alternatives, including 
commercial airline alternatives. 
It may be slightly less convenient, 
but it sure would be a lot less 
costly, and it would free up existing 
DOD aircraft we have now for the 
unique missions for which they say 
they are needed. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ALLARD). 
The Senator from Alaska. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I am 
somewhat surprised by the length and 
specificity of the argument against 
this amendment. This amendment, on 
page 104 of the bill, would authorize the 
Secretary of the Air Force to obtain 
transportation for the commanders in 
chief, the regional commanders, to 
lease aircraft. It does not mandate any 
leasing. It authorizes leasing. 

Currently these commanders in chief, 
regional commanders, are already flying 
707 aircraft built 30, 35 years ago. 
Commercially, those airlines had 250 
seats. They have 45 seats on those aircraft 
now. They are big. They are old. 

They are costly to maintain. It is possible 
to have modern replacements 
now. 

The Senators would have us replace 
one a year. We will keep operating 
these old dumbos at enormous cost for 
repair and replacement of engines, instead 
of moving out and accepting the 
fact that there are planes there now, 
American-built planes, and the Department 
estimates it will cost $750 million 
to operate and maintain the current 
support fleet over the next 10 years. We 
would reduce that cost and put our 
people immediately in more cost-effective, 
quiet, efficient planes. 

Yes, they are small compared to 
what they have now. Today a commander 
in chief takes along with him 
up to 45 people. This will reduce that 
size; there is no question about that. 
Further, we reduce the number of aircraft 
from nine to seven. They didn’t 
mention that. This has nothing to say 
about all those other aircraft. 

I would like to have a study of the 
flights of these airplanes that are 
owned by the Federal Government, particularly 
those owned and flown by the 
White House. We tried to get that and 
couldn’t get it. We would like to find 
out who flies in the State Department 
airplane. We couldn’t get that. 

Now, be my guest and go get those, 
but these are commanders of our military 
who are serving as regional commanders 
of forces. I wonder if the Senate 
knows there are forces of the American 
people in 91 different countries 
today. We are operating at about one-
third the staff we had just 5 years ago. 
We are trying to carry out missions 
that are almost impossible. Our reenlistment 
rate of pilots is down to less 
than one-third of what it was just a 
year ago. The deployment of our forces 
is overwhelming. The degree of fatigue 
on our managers is overwhelming. 

I really never expected this kind of 
argument about replacing the 707s. I do 
not think anyone wants to continue to 
fly on the 707s. If nothing else, they are 
just old. 

Mr. WARNER. Will the Senator yield 
for an observation? 

Mr. STEVENS. No. I am going to 
table this, follow this bill through, and 
get it done. I can’t understand that an 
amendment like this would delay this 
bill, because it is only an authorization 
to lease. All we have heard today, talking 
about the number of aircraft, is immaterial. 
Those aircraft are out there. 
They are not going to be affected by 
this amendment at all. 

What we are trying to do is say that 
these commanders who stand in for the 
President as regional commanders in 
chief should have the state of the art of 
American industry in terms of their 
transportation. That is what this is. 
What we are doing is trying to get 
them to lease them, because if we 
started replacing them, I have to tell 
you, there is not money in this bill to 
allow us to buy seven new aircraft for 
these commanders. We can give them 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6675 

the authority to lease them and replace 
them, and those leases can be options 
to buy later. We can fill that if 
we want to buy the planes later. We 
can’t do it now, but these planes they 
are flying now are expensive, and they 
are too large. They are not what these 
commanders need. 

A DOD report promised us a savings 
of $250 million over this 10-year period 
if they had this authority. It doesn’t 
mandate them leasing it. It authorizes 
them to lease some, buy some, lease 
with an option to buy, whatever it 
might be, to get the best deal possible 
to replace these aircraft. 

Now, in terms of maintenance alone, 
this option would save us a lot of 
money. I think the problem of having 
dedicated aircraft is something we 
ought to look at. 

The Senator says he hasn’t seen 
many four-star admirals or four-star 
generals on airplanes. I see them. They 
do not wear their uniforms on airplanes. 
Why should they? They would 
automatically be a target. It is not 
what we want anyway. These people 
are known throughout the world. I 
think if anyone in the world needs protection, 
it is the commanders in chief 
of the regions. We do not provide that, 
but we can provide them the capability 
for security and safety as they move 
around the areas over which they have 
command. 

Talk to the people in industry. Why 
do you think the big industries are 
leasing fleets of cars now? Because 
after the end of a year or so, they turn 
them back, get a new model—no maintenance, 
no replacement of parts. The 
vehicles are out on the civilian market 
with a good value, because they have 
only been used for a short while. 

We could do the same thing with 
these aircraft if people would wake up 
and use the leasing operation. We are 
not talking about leasing combat aircraft; 
we are talking about leasing 
transportation that is vital to the regional 
commanders. 

Again, our section only deals with 
transportation for the regional commanders, 
not for all the 684 people. If 
you want to know who they are, they 
are people in the State Department. We 
will be glad to give you a list. State 
Department, commanders of bases 
overseas, they are eligible for flight on 
these aircraft. 

But above all, I am sort of taken 
aback by the fact that we are giving 
the Department of Defense the right to 
think about taxpayers’ money as they 
provide this vital transportation link 
for these regional commanders. 

This saves money. The study shows 
they save money. Before they can complete 
the lease, they have to come back 
and get the money to lease. There is no 
money in this bill to lease. As a practical 
matter, I really don’t understand. 
Here we are trying to save money. We 
are trying to replace these antiquated 
airplanes. These places these people go, 
most of them have no commercial connections. 
They just do not. 

I took a trip this last week to California 
and down to the desert in Arizona 
and back here on business, down 
at the border to look at some problems 
there. I will tell the Senate about that 
later. There were no connections to 
Douglas, AZ, commercially. I thought I 
would get down there and see that 
problem to determine whether we 
ought to spend taxpayers’ money. They 
have the same problem. How can they 
tell us what they need in these remote 
places of the world under their command? 


And how can they come to meetings 
and listen to the Commander in Chief 
or to the Vice Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs? These planes are needed by 
these people. I think one of the great 
things brought about by the Goldwater-
Nichols Act was, in fact, regional 
commanders. It gave us the kind 
of command and control we needed to 
maintain a very efficient military, 
with fewer people, and utilizing the talent 
of some very distinguished people. 
I have to tell you, the longer I am here, 
the greater respect I have for people 
who get four stars on their shoulders. 
That is what we are talking about—the 
people who have come through the 
services and have reached the point of 
ultimate command—and I mean ultimate. 
They can make decisions in lieu 
of the Commander in Chief in a time of 
crisis; I am talking about in lieu of the 
President. They have the power under 
that act to act in a crisis. 

Now, what do you want to do—let 
them ride commercial planes? I challenge 
anybody who has been out in the 
Pacific and has gone from place to 
place, from island to island, where we 
have our military, to figure out how to 
do it commercially. Even in my State, 
if you want to go out to Adak, you can 
go out and come back 2 days later. 

As a practical matter, this is transportation 
for the 21st century. If nothing 
else, this Senator doesn’t want to 
see representatives of the Nation that 
leads the world in building aircraft to 
be traveling in 1960 airplanes in the 
years 2001, 2002, and 2003. That is what 
we are talking about. There is a lot 
here in terms of advertising America to 
the world. I want these people to be 
flying in the best we have, because 
they are demonstrating this country’s 
ability to maintain its position in the 
world. 

I cannot believe there would be this 
kind of dialog about giving the authority 
to use a system that American 
business has now used very efficiently 
for 40 years—the leasing of equipment 
as opposed to buying it. I hope to God 
they use this authority and save us 
some money and put our people in safe, 
modern, efficient transportation. 

Does the Senator want to speak be


fore I make a motion to table? 

Mr. INOUYE. For just 2 minutes. 

Mr. STEVENS. I yield to the Senator 
from Hawaii for 2 minutes. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, most respectfully, 
I have been trying to—— 

Mrs. BOXER. Reserving the right to 
object—and I will not—I wonder if the 

Senator from Iowa and I may have a 
chance to ask a question of the Senator 
from Alaska so that we can make our 
point again, because I think he misconstrued 
what we were saying. I think 
it is important to set the record 
straight. May we have 4 minutes between 
us to simply ask a question? 

Mr. STEVENS. I will be pleased to 
enter into that kind of agreement, following 
the remarks of the Senator 
from Hawaii. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Hawaii is recognized. 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I have 
been trying to follow this debate as 
closely as possible. The explanation the 
Senator from California has given is 
that this amendment would strike provisions 
in the bill which allow the Secretary 
of the Air Force to lease six 
Gulfstream V jets to transport the 
highest ranking military officials. 

There is nothing in Section 8106 that 
speaks of six Gulfstream V jets, nor 
does it speak of the highest ranking 
military officials. I have no idea where 
that came from. 

What this section says is: 

The Secretary of the Air Force may obtain 
transportation for operational support purposes, 
including transportation for combatant 
Commanders in Chief, by lease of aircraft, 
on such terms and conditions as the 
Secretary may deem appropriate, consistent 
with this section, through an operating lease 
consistent with OMB Circular A–11. 

There is nothing about Gulfstreams. 
There is nothing about the highest 
ranking military officials. But even if 
we did say six Gulfstream V jets for the 
highest military officials, I join my 
chairman in objecting to this amendment. 
We should keep in mind that 
fewer than 1 percent of the population 
of these United States have stood up 
and said to the rest of the world they 
are willing to stand in harm’s way in 
our defense and, if necessary, give their 
lives. Fewer than 1 percent of us have 
taken that oath. The least we can do is 
to give them the cutting edge, and this 
is the cutting edge that is necessary to 
differentiate between defeat and victory. 


So, Mr. President, I will support a 
motion to table this amendment. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, let me 
again say what we are trying to do. We 
believe under this amendment, by giving 
the authority to lease aircraft, we 
will be able to get at least six aircraft 
in less than 2 years to replace these 
aircraft that are now well over 30, 40 
years old. We believe the savings in retiring 
these aging, expensive-to-maintain 
707 aircraft will be cost effective. 
But what is more, this move will be 
very good for the Department, because 
by pooling these aircraft they will be 
able to use them efficiently. Nobody 
will have a dedicated aircraft that is 
underutilized. They will be able to be 
used by others when not being utilized 
under this plan. 

We adopted a similar plan last year 
at my suggestion, and that is when we 
were going to have aircraft for FEMA, 


S6676 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

CIA, and the FBI. We formed a special 
unit, and they have pooled the aircraft 
and they are available to them. They 
will have them available for one or all 
of them, depending on the needs of the 
people involved. This is a cost-effective 
utilization of air transportation to 
meet the needs of our National Government. 
I hope we can defeat this amendment. 


I am going to make a motion to 
table. I will be happy to consider time 
for the Senators to speak. They have 
spoken almost an hour and a half. I 
will honor their suggestion if they 
want some time before I make that motion. 


Mr. HARKIN. I would be glad to do 10 
minutes and wrap it up. 

Mrs. BOXER. I would like to complete 
it with 3 minutes. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senator 
from Iowa have not more than 10 minutes 
and the Senator from California 
not more than 5 minutes and I be recognized 
again to make a motion to 
table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The Senator 
from Iowa. 

Mr. HARKIN. Mr. President, the Senator 
from Alaska has made a good 
point that the military should consider 
leasing and not consider purchasing. 
That is what our amendment does. 
Read our amendment. It says: 

Not later than March 1, 2000, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to Congress a report 
on the inventory and status of operational 
support aircraft, Commander-in-Chief support 
aircraft, and command support aircraft 
of the Department of Defense. The report 
shall include a detailed discussion of the requirements 
for such aircraft, the foreseeable 
future requirements for such aircraft, the 
cost of leasing such aircraft, commercial alternatives 
to use of such aircraft, the cost of 
maintaining the aircraft, the capability and 
appropriateness of the aircraft to fulfill mission 
requirements, and the relevancy of the 
missions of the aircraft to warfighting requirements. 


That is exactly what our amendment 
does. But we want to know, should we 
even lease them? 

Mr. STEVENS. I have one question. 
The first sentence says to strike the 
provision on page 104. 

Mr. HARKIN. Strike the 
provision—— 

Mr. STEVENS. To lease for another 
year. 

Mr. HARKIN. It strikes the provision 
which allows the Department of Department 
to go ahead and lease. It 
says: Let’s do a study before next 
March 1. What are our requirements? 
What are our alternatives? And let’s 
examine the leasing versus the purchasing. 
We don’t even have that documentation 
yet. 

So I don’t think there is such a need 
that we have to rush ahead and allow 
them to go ahead and enter these longterm 
leasing agreements before March 
1 of next year. There is not that requirement 
there. They tried to put this 
into the supplemental appropriations 

bill, and that was knocked out because 
it wasn’t an emergency. Now they have 
come back on the regular appropriations 
bill. 

So all our amendment is saying, fine, 
leasing may be the best way to proceed, 
but we haven’t gotten to that 
point yet. Do we even need these aircraft? 
We haven’t gotten to that point 
yet. I make the point that I am not 
certain we need this. Let’s take it one 
step at a time and see if these are really 
operational requirements. 

The Senator also said that it would 
be costly; we have these old aircraft in 
inventory we have to repair and keep 
them up and put new engines in them 
and all that stuff. It is sort of like my 
old car. I have an old car, and it needs 
a new engine. I can put a new engine in 
that car, and it is going to cost me 
about $1,300. The car runs fine. In fact, 
it is a pretty darned nice car. It is just 
a little old and has a lot of miles on it. 
If I go out and buy a new car, it will 
cost me about $20,000. I ask you, which 
is the better alternative, if I am looking 
at it costwise? It is a lot cheaper 
for me to put a new engine in that old 
car. 

These are 30-year-old, well-maintained 
aircraft. They are the best 
maintained aircraft in the world. They 
go through their periodic inspections, 
their 100-hour inspections, their annual 
inspections, and they have all kinds of 
new engines on them and everything. It 
is much cheaper to keep those flying, 
to repair them, and to keep them up 
than it is to go out and pay $40 million 
for one of these, I can assure you. 

Second, my last point: The chairman 
says that this will not affect the number 
of aircraft that we have out there 
now. I beg to differ. It will affect the 
number of aircraft we have out there 
now, because if in fact the amendment 
of the Senator from California and myself 
is adopted, it is going to require 
them to take a really hard look at 
what they have in their inventory, at 
what their needs are, and at how they 
can better utilize them. That may affect 
the other aircraft out there. We 
may be able to meet the mission requirements 
of the CINCs with all of the 
Gulfstreams, the Learjets, the Citation 
jets, the 707s, the 757s, the 727s, and the 
DC–9s that we have out there if they 
are better utilized. That is the missing 
ingredient. We don’t have that kind of 
an accounting. That is what our 
amendment calls for. 

If it turns out that they really need 
these aircraft to meet the warmaking 
capabilities, and it proves that it is 
cheaper to do it this way than to repair 
and fix up the older aircraft—if that 
can be shown—I will be first in line to 
vote to make sure they get the aircraft. 


But I am telling you, this Senator 
does not have adequate information 
right now to vote to spend probably upwards 
of $600 million to $700 million 
over the next 10 years to lease these 
Gulfstream Vs and operate them for 
that period of time. 

That is why we need to just step 
back, take a deep breath, and have 
them to report back. One year is not 
going to be a big loss to them, if they 
have to wait one year. 

I yield the floor. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from California. 

Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I thank 
the Senator from Iowa for the time 
that he has spent on working on this 
amendment with me and for his experience. 
His being in the military, I think, 
brings tremendous credibility to this 
discussion. 

I thank the Senator from Alaska and 
the Senator from Hawaii for their patience. 
I know that this is an amendment 
that they do not agree with. I 
know they are not thrilled that we 
have offered it, but they have shown 
great respect and have given us the 
time that we need to explain it. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD a list of the 
more than 300 planes in the inventory. 
These are aircraft available for military 
administrative travel. I ask unanimous 
consent to have that printed in 
the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

MILITARY PLANES—CIVILIAN EQUIVALENT 
NAMES AND SPECS 

C–9—military equivalent of McDonnell Douglas 
DC–9—twin-engine, T-tailed, medium-
range, swept-wing jet aircraft. Used primarily 
for aeromedical evacuation missions. 


Capacity: 40 litter patients, 40 ambulatory 
and four litter patients, or various combinations. 


Number in the military: Total=34—Navy, 
27; Marines, 2; Air Force, 5. 
C–12 Huron—Beech Aircraft King Air, a twin 
turboprop passenger and cargo aircraft. 
Built: Wichita, KS—Beech Aircraft Corp. 

(Raytheon). 
Capacity: up to 8 passengers. 
Number in the military Total=178—Army, 

104; Navy, 51; Marines, 18; Air Force, 5. 
C–20 series—Gulfstream Aerospace Gulf-
stream Series, these are jets. 
Built: Savannah, GA—Gulfstream Aerospace 
Corp. 
Capacity: maximum of 19. 

Number in the military: Total=16—Navy, 6; 
Marines, 1; Air Force, 9. 
C–20A—Gulfstream III. 

C–20B—Gulfstream III. 
C–20H—Gulfstream IV. 
C–21—Learjet Series, cargo and passenger 

plane with turbofan jet engines. 
Built: Wichita, KS—Learjet Corporation. 
Capacity: 8 passengers. 
Number in the military: Total=70—Air 

Force, 70. 
C–22B—Boeing 727–100, primary medium-
range aircraft used by the Air National 
Guard and National Guard Bureau to airlift 
personnel. 

Number in the military: Total=3—Air National 
Guard, 3. 
C–23—an all-freight version of the Shorts 330 

regional airliner. 
Built: Northern Ireland, UK—Short Brothers 
plc. 
Number in the military: Total=32—Army, 
32. 
C–26—Fairchild Merlin/Metro, operated exclusively 
by the Air and Army National 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6677 

Guard, it is a propeller plane with quick 
change passenger, medivac, and cargo interiors. 


Built: San Antonio, TX—Fairchild Aircraft 
Corp. 
Number in the military: Total=10—Army, 
10. 

C–32A—Boeing 757–200, equipped with two 
wing-mounted Pratt & Whitney 2040 engines. 


Capacity: 45 passengers and 16 crew. 
Number in the military: Total=4; Air 
Force, 4. 

C–37A—Gulfstream V. 
Capacity: up to 12 passengers. 
Number in the military: Total=2—Air 

Force, 2. 
C–38A—IAI Astra SPX, primarily for operational 
support and distinguished visitor 
transport and can be configured for medical 
evacuation and general cargo duties. 
Capacity: 11 passengers and crew. 

Number in the military: Total=2—Air 
Force, 2. 
C–137C—Boeing 707–300, provides transpor


tation for the vice president, cabinet and 
congressional members, and other high-
ranking U.S. and foreign officials. It also 
serves as a backup for Air Force One. 

Capacity: 40–50 passengers. 
Number in the military: Total=2—Air 
Force, 2. 

UC–35—Cessna Citation 560 Ultra V twin, medium 
range executive and priority cargo 
jet aircraft. 

Capacity: up to 8 passengers. 
Number in the military: Total=14—Army, 
14. 

CT–39G—Rockwell International, twin-jet 
engine, pressurized, fixed wing, monoplane. 


Capacity: 8 passengers. 
Number in the military: Total=3—Marines, 
3. 

VC–25—Boeing 757–200. 
Capacity: 102. 
Number in the Military: Total=2. 

C–135—Boeing 707, jet airliner that has performed 
numerous transport and special-
duty functions. 

Number in the military: Total=5—Air 
Force, 5. 
Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, if we go 
through this list, you will see all of 
them: The C–20 series, the C–12 series, 
the C–21 series, the C–22B series, and it 
goes on and on with over 300 planes. 
I thank Senator HARKIN’s staff for 
their work in putting that together. 
I want to make a point. We have an 
argument on the floor of the Senate. It 
is a very fair argument. One side says 
it is cheaper to lease these 
Gulfstreams, and others say that it 
may well be cheaper to buy them—forgetting 
about the fact that some of us 
think we don’t need them at all. This is 
almost $1/2 billion over 10 years at a 
time when we are cutting virtually everything 
else but the military right 
now. 
Let’s face it. The FAA is almost 
being crippled with $300 million in rescinded 
funds to make our civilian 
skies safer. This is serious. This isn’t a 
small piece of change. 
If, as my friend says, the study comes 
back and shows we save money by buying 
these things, we will take a look at 
that. 
I agree with the Senator from Alaska. 
I think there are times when of 

course—I know the Senator from Iowa 
agrees—we want to have certain planes 
set aside for the convenience and use of 
our top brass. That is not the question 
here. There are 300 planes in the military 
that they can use now. In this 
very bill, we are purchasing more of 
the Cessna Citation Ultras, which are 
beautiful planes that the Senator from 
Iowa has spoken about, to carry them 
around in luxury. Yes. They may have 
to stop to refuel, but they can keep in 
contact with the President of the 
United States. I have traveled with 
very impressive delegations where we 
have had to stop in the middle of very 
tenuous circumstances. 

Mr. HARKIN. If the Senator will 
yield, as an old military pilot myself, I 
must say that if the generals want to 
get someplace in a real hurry—it may 
be necessary—and if it is part of our 
warmaking capabilities, they can get 
in the back seat of an F–16, get inflight 
fueling, and they can be there a lot 
faster than any commercial aircraft or 
a Gulfstream or anything else. That is 
the fastest way to get there. 

Mrs. BOXER. I reclaim my time. I 
have a brief amount of time left. 

This isn’t about hurting anyone in 
the military. My goodness. No one 
could respect the military more than 
the Senator from Iowa. I have to say 
that is not what this amendment is 
about. This amendment is about a very 
hard-nosed money question. Can we 
move these generals around in style 
but not in the Gulfstream version? Can 
we look to see what the best way to go 
is—leasing or purchasing? Then maybe 
we can save some money that we need 
desperately. 

Our veterans need veterans cemeteries. 
They are being told that they 
have to have a 15-percent cut in the VA 
allocation. This includes VA hospitals. 
We could go on. We have military people. 
You want to talk about the military 
who have to go on food stamps or 
the WIC Program. The Senator from 
Iowa has led that charge. Maybe that is 
why we feel so strongly about this, 
that it is a matter of priorities. Respect 
for the generals? Absolutely. Respect 
for the enlisted people? Absolutely. 
Let’s do the right thing. 

All we are saying is a year’s pause, 
have a good study done, come back together, 
see what the study shows, and 
then make the decision that is based 
more on fact than fiction. 

Yes. The New York Times did a 
study. They said it is costing about 
$140 million more to go the leasing 
route. Let’s see if they are right. 

I thank the Chair. I yield the floor. 

Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I rise 
today to stand in strong support for 
this amendment. This straightforward 
amendment to strike tens of million of 
dollars for luxury aircraft for military 
commanders, brought to the floor by 
Senators BOXER and HARKIN is about 
our men and women in uniform. 

It is about the men and women that 
we have heard so much about over the 
past years, the central players in the 

services’ readiness crisis. It is about 
the men and women whose lives are on 
the line in operations around the 
world. There is no question, Mr. President, 
that we must provide them with 
the necessary resources to defend 
themselves and the United States. 

Just last year, there was a virtual 
consensus that the armed services were 
facing a readiness crisis. Last September, 
the Joint Chiefs testified that 
there was a dangerous readiness shortfall. 
General Henry Shelton, Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs, claimed that 
‘‘without relief, we will see a continuation 
of the downward trends in readiness 
. . . and shortfalls in critical 
skills.’’ Army Chief of Staff General 
Dennis Reimer stated that the military 
faces a ‘‘hollow force’’ without increased 
readiness spending. Chief of 
Naval Operations Admiral Jay Johnson 
asserted that the Navy has a $6 billion 
readiness deficit. So it went for all the 
services. 

To address the readiness shortfall, 
the Congress passed on emergency supplemental 
appropriations bill. The bill 
was well-intentioned in its support for 
the efforts of our men and women in 
uniform. Unfortunately, something 
happened on the way to the front lines. 
The bill spent close to $9 billion, but 
just $1 billion of it went to address the 
readiness shortfall. 

We added $1 billion for ballistic missile 
defense. The Ballistic Missile Defense 
Organization still has not spent 
all that money, yet we have added another 
$3.5 billion for the BMDO in this 
bill. Last year’s supplemental also 
added billions to what has become an 
expected emergency, that being our operations 
in Bosnia. That other unexpected 
emergency, the year 2000, received 
a billion dollars. And so it went. 
What happened to readiness? 

It is with wonderment that the appropriations 
bill before us today would 
spend upwards of $40 million in the 
next fiscal year, and perhaps as much 
as half a billion dollars over the next 
ten years on luxury jets for four-star 
generals. Am I missing something or is 
this absurd? We actually have troops 
that qualify for food stamps and DOD 
can justify spending tens of millions of 
dollars next year for luxury jets. 

This bill will allow the Air Force to 
lease executive business Gulfstream V 
jets for the military’s unified and regional 
commanders in chief. This bill 
also spends $27 million for five UC–35 
corporate aircraft that the Pentagon 
did not even ask for this year. How can 
this be? 

According to John Hamre, the assistant 
secretary of defense, DOD has an 
inventory of almost 500 operational 
support airlift, or OSA, aircraft, including 
70 Learjets. The Army owns 160 
OSA aircraft, the Air Force 111 OSA 
aircraft, the Navy 89 OSA aircraft; and 
the Marines 24. The General Accounting 
Office found that DOD’s operational 
support fleet ‘‘far exceeded any 
possible wartime requirement.’’ Yet, 
the Air Force and certain members of 


S6678 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

Congress believe this to be a high military 
priority. 

Mr. President, I would like my colleagues 
to close their eyes for a few 
minutes while I describe the jet that 
has become such a military priority. I 
take this directly from Gulfstream’s 
website: 

From the 100 percent fresh air control system, 
to the comfortably maintained 6,000 
foot cabin altitude at 51,000 feet, to cabin 
size—a generous 1,669-cubic-feet and the 
longest in the industry—the Gulfstream V 
provides an interior environment unmatched 
in transoceanic business travel. The jet also 
offers a substantial outfitting allowance of 
6,700 pounds—more than 12 percent greater 
than any other business aircraft current or 
planned—which affords owners and operators 
the freedom to select furnishings and equipment 
with minimum tradeoffs. Space-age titanium 
mufflers and vibration isolators 
eliminate hydraulic system noise. Plentiful 
insulation in the side panels reduces sound 
further, and we’ve even reengineered 
Gulfstream’s trademark expansive, oval windows 
to lessen noise levels. The total effect 
is library-like science conducive to a productive 
trip. 

Now I ask my colleagues to open 
their eyes and face reality. Supporting 
the Defense Department’s misguided 
spending priorities is not synonymous 
with supporting the military. I urge 
my colleagues to look themselves in 
the mirror and credibly ask themselves 
if they can support corporate jets for 
generals while front-line troops muddle 
by on food stamps. Which is the higher 
priority? 

I cannot vote to increase the defense 
budget by tens of billions of dollars, including 
tens of millions for corporate 
jets, which the budgets for veterans’ 
health care, education, agriculture and 
other programs are facing deep cuts. 

Throwing good money after bad is 
not tolerated at other Departments 
and agencies. Why is it tolerated with 
DOD? Defense Week reported just yesterday 
that the Navy has lost track of 
almost 1 billion dollars’ worth of ammunition, 
arms and explosives. Additionally, 
DOD has yet to pass an audit. 
A 1998 GAO audit couldn’t match more 
than $22 billion in DOD expenditures 
with obligations; it could not find over 
$9 billion in inventory; and it documented 
millions in overpayments to 
contractors. GAO concluded that ‘‘no 
major part of DOD has been able to 
pass the test of an independent audit.’’ 

Mr. President, we need some accountability 
in the Defense Department. 
Voting for the Boxer-Harkin amendment 
shows that the Senate supports 
our men and women in uniform. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alaska. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I think 
it would be interesting for the Senator 
to know that the plane of our commander 
in Europe, General Clark, who 
we all see on the news—and we have 
met with him respectively, and our 
committee has twice—the C–9A, cannot 
land at half of the airfields in Europe 
because of environmental restrictions. 

I don’t understand why we can’t 
move to make available the process 

that has been pioneered and developed 
by American industry and even States 
and cities. They lease their aircraft. 
They lease their fleets of cars. It is 
cost effective. We are giving them the 
authority to do this. We are not mandating 
them to do it by the provision of 
the bill. 

But if people want this substitute 
amendment—the Senator from California 
would require a study for more 
than a year—we would be back here 
again. 

But we faced this. People forget. In 
the current year appropriations bill, we 
required an assessment of consolidated 
CINC support aircraft. It was required 
to be submitted, and it was submitted 
by March 1. Here it is. It led to this 
provision. We have had a year. We had 
the study. They have told us what they 
need. 

I hope the Senate will support the 
need as outlined, but the needs can be 
met by exercising the authority. We 
are not mandating anything in this 
bill. 

I move to table the amendment, and 
I ask for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
question is on agreeing to the motion 
to table amendment No. 541. On this 
question, the yeas and nays have been 
ordered, and the clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

Mr. NICKLES. I announce that the 
Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO) and 
the Senator from Arizona (Mr. MCCAIN) 
are necessarily absent. 

Mr. REID. I announce that the Senator 
from Delaware (Mr. BIDEN) is absent 
due to a death in the family. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber 
who desire to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 66, 
nays 31, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 157 Leg.] 

YEAS—66 
Akaka Frist Mack 
Ashcroft Gorton McConnell 
Bennett Gramm Moynihan 
Bond Gregg Murkowski 
Breaux Hagel Murray 
Brownback Hatch Nickles 
Bryan Helms Reed 
Bunning Hollings Reid 
Burns Hutchinson Roberts 
Campbell Hutchison Roth 
Chafee Inhofe Sessions 
Cleland Inouye Shelby 
Cochran Jeffords Smith (NH) 
Collins Kennedy Smith (OR) 
Coverdell Kerrey Snowe 
Craig Kerry Specter 
DeWine Kyl Stevens 
Dodd Landrieu Thomas 
Domenici Leahy Thompson 
Dorgan Lieberman Thurmond 
Enzi Lott Voinovich 
Fitzgerald Lugar Warner 
NAYS—31 
Abraham Byrd Feinstein 
Allard Conrad Graham 
Baucus Daschle Grams 
Bayh Durbin Grassley 
Bingaman Edwards Harkin 
Boxer Feingold Johnson 

Kohl Robb Torricelli 
Lautenberg Rockefeller Wellstone 
Levin Santorum Wyden 
Lincoln Sarbanes 
Mikulski Schumer 

NOT VOTING—3 

Biden Crapo McCain 

The motion was agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS addressed the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alaska. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I want 
to state to the Senate what we are 
going to do here. We have resolved, I 
tell the Senate, all outstanding issues 
now. I will offer here a package for myself 
and the distinguished Senator from 
Hawaii and a series of colloquies, and 
then we will have final passage on the 
bill. 

All of the remaining amendments— 
some that we thought would be controversial—
have now been resolved. I 
do thank the Senators for their cooperation. 
I am waiting for just one 
item. 

AMENDMENT NO. 578 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I call 
up amendment No. 578, the Roberts 
amendment. 

AMENDMENT NO. 602 TO AMENDMENT NO. 578 
(Purpose: To provide for the suspension of 

certain sanctions against India and Paki


stan) 

Mr. STEVENS. I send an amendment 
to the desk for Senator BROWNBACK and 
ask unanimous consent it be considered 
an amendment to this amendment. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The clerk 
will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS] 
for Mr. BROWNBACK, proposes an amendment 
numbered 602 to amendment No. 578. 

The amendment is as follows: 

In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted 
by the amendment, insert the following: 
TITLE—-SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN SANC


TIONS AGAINST INDIA AND PAKISTAN 
SEC. l1. SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Effective for the period of 
five years commencing on the date of enactment 
of this Act, the sanctions contained in 
the following provisions of law shall not 
apply to India and Pakistan with respect to 
any grounds for the imposition of sanctions 
under those provisions arising prior to that 
date: 
(1) Section 101 of the Arms Export Control 
Act (22 U.S.C. 2799aa). 
(2) Section 102 of the Arms Export Control 
Act (22 U.S.C. 2799aa–1) other than subsection 
(b)(2)(B), (C), or (G). 
(3) Section 2(b)(4) of the Export Import 
Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(4)). 
(b) SPECIAL RULE FOR COMMERCIAL EXPORTS 
OF DUAL-USE ARTICLES AND TECHNOLOGY.— 
The sanction contained in section 
102(b)(2)(G) of the Arms Export Control Act 
(22 U.S.C. 2799aa–1(b)(2)(G)) shall not apply to 
India or Pakistan with respect to any 
grounds for the imposition of that sanction 
arising prior to the date of enactment of this 
Act if imposition of the sanction (but for 
this paragraph) would deny any license for 
the export of any dual-use article, or related 
dual-use technology (including software), 
listed on the Commerce Control List of the 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6679 

Export Administration Regulations that 
would not contribute directly to missile development 
or to a nuclear weapons program. 
For purposes of this subsection, an article or 
technology that is not primarily used for 
missile development or nuclear weapons programs. 


(c) NATIONAL SECURITY INTERESTS WAIVER 
OF SANCTIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The restriction on assistance 
in section 102(b)(2)(B), (C), or (G) of the 
Arms Export Control Act shall not apply if 
the President determines, and so certifies to 
Congress, that the application of the restriction 
would not be in the national security interests 
of the United States. 
(2) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense of 
the Senate that— 
(A) no waiver under paragraph (1) should 
be invoked for section 102(b)(2)(B) or (C) of 
the Arms Export Control Act with respect to 
any party that initiates or supports activities 
that jeopardize peace and security in 
Jammu and Kashmir; 
(B) the broad application of export controls 
to nearly 300 Indian and Pakistani entities is 
inconsistent with the specific national security 
interest of the United States and that 
this control list requires refinement. 
(C) export controls should be applied only 
to those Indian and Pakistani entities that 
make direct and material contributions to 
weapons of mass destruction and missile programs 
and only to those items that can contribute 
such programs. 
(d) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—Not later 
than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the President shall submit a report 
to the appropriate congressional committees 
listing those Indian and Pakistani entities 
whose activities contribute directly and materially 
to missile programs or weapons of 
mass destruction programs. 
(e) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—A license 
for the export of a defense article, defense 
service, or technology is subject to the 
same requirements as are applicable to the 
export of items described in section 36(c) of 
the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
2776(c)), including the transmittal of information 
and the application of congressional 
review procedures described in that section. 
(f) RENEWAL OF SUSPENSION.—Upon the expiration 
of the initial five-year period of suspension 
of the sanctions contained in paragraph 
(1) or (2) of subsection (a), the President 
may renew the suspension with respect 
to India, Pakistan, or both for additional periods 
of five years each if, not less than 30 
days prior to each renewal of suspension, the 
President certifies to the appropriate congressional 
committees that it is in the national 
interest of the United States to do so. 
(g) RESTRICTION.—The authority of subsection 
(a) may not be used to provide assistance 
under chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2346 et seq.; 
relating to economic support fund assistance) 
except for— 
(1) assistance that supports the activities 
of nongovernmental organizations; 
(2) assistance that supports democracy or 
the establishment of democratic institutions; 
or 
(3) humanitarian assistance. 
(h) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in 
this Act prohibits the imposition of sanctions 
by the President under any provision of 
law specified in subsection (a) or (b) by reason 
of any grounds for the imposition of 
sanctions under that provision of law arising 
on or after the date of enactment of this Act. 
SEC. l2. REPEALS. 

The following provisions of law are repealed: 


(1) Section 620E(e) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2375(e)). 
(2) The India-Pakistan Relief Act (title IX 
of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, as contained in 
section 101(a) of Public Law 105–277). 
SEC. l3. APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES 
DEFINED. 

In this title, the term ‘‘appropriate congressional 
committees’’ means the Committee 
on Foreign Relations of the Senate 
and the Committee on International Relations 
of the House of Representatives. 

Mr. STEVENS. These amendments 
pertain to the Pakistan issue that has 
been discussed. They have been cleared 
on both sides. I ask unanimous consent 
the amendment to the amendment be 
agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 

objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment (No. 602) was agreed 

to. 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
the underlying amendment itself, 
as amended, be agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment, as amended, 
is agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 578), as amended, 
was agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. I move to reconsider 
the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 547 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I call 
up amendment No. 547. 

AMENDMENT NO. 603 TO AMENDMENT NO. 547 

Mr. STEVENS. I offer an amendment 
on behalf of Senator BIDEN to that 
amendment and ask unanimous consent 
it be considered. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The clerk 
will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for Mr. BIDEN, proposes an amendment num


bered 603 to amendment No. 547. 

The amendment is as follows: 

In amendment No. 547, on page 1, line 5, 

strike ‘‘shall’’ and insert ‘‘nay.’’ 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
the amendment to the amendment 
be agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the second-degree amendment 
is agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 603) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
the underlying amendment itself, 
as amended, be agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment, as amended, 
is agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 547), as amended, 
was agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. I move to reconsider 
the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 551 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I call 
up Senator NICKLES’ amendment No. 

551. The amendment is acceptable to 
both sides. I ask for a voice vote. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BROWNBACK). The question is on agreeing 
to the amendment. 

The amendment (No. 551) was agreed 
to. 
Mr. STEVENS. I move to reconsider 
the vote. 
Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 
AMENDMENTS NOS. 575, 580, 586, AND 590, AS 
MODIFIED 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I send 
to the desk modifications to four 
amendments. These are modifications 
to amendments currently pending on 
the list. I ask unanimous consent that 
these amendments be modified and 
that the amendments be agreed to en 
bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 
The amendments are modified and 
agreed to. 

The amendments (Nos. 575, 580, 586, 
and 590) were modified and agreed to, 
as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 575, AS MODIFIED 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to 
$4,000,000 may be made available for the Advanced 
Helmet System Program. 

AMENDMENT NO. 580, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. (a) Congress makes the following 
findings: 

(1) Congress recognizes and supports, as 
being fundamental to the national defense, 
the ability of the Armed Forces to test weapons 
and weapon systems thoroughly, and to 
train members of the Armed Forces in the 
use of weapons and weapon systems before 
the forces enter hostile military engagements. 
(2) It is the policy of the United States 
that the Armed Forces at all times exercise 
the utmost degree of caution in the training 
with weapons and weapon systems in order 
to avoid endangering civilian populations 
and the environment. 
(3) In the adherence to these policies, it is 
essential to the public safety that the Armed 
Forces not test weapons or weapon systems, 
or engage in training exercises with live ammunition, 
in close proximity to civilian populations 
unless there is no reasonable alternative 
available. 
(b) It is the sense of Congress that— 
(1) there should be a thorough investigation 
of the circumstances that led to the accidental 
death of a civilian employee of the 
Navy installation in Vieques, Puerto Rico, 
and the wounding of four other civilians during 
a live-ammunition weapons test at 
Vieques, including a reexamination of the 
adequacy of the measures that are in place 
to protect the civilian population during 
such training; 
(2) the Secretary of Defense should not authorize 
the Navy to resume live ammunition 
training on the Island of Vieques, Puerto 
Rico, unless and until he has advised the 
Congressional Defense Committees of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives 
that— 

S6680 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

(A) there is not available an alternative 
training site with no civilian population located 
in close proximity; 
(B) the national security of the United 
States requires that the training be carried 
out; 
(C) measures to provide the utmost level of 
safety to the civilian population are to be in 
place and maintained throughout the training; 
and 
(D) training with ammunition containing 
radioactive materials that could cause environmental 
degradation should not be authorized. 
(3) in addition to advising committees of 
Congress of the findings as described in paragraph 
(2), the Secretary of Defense should 
advise the Governor of Puerto Rico of those 
findings and, if the Secretary of Defense decides 
to resume live-ammunition weapons 
training on the Island of Vieques, consult 
with the Governor on a regular basis regarding 
the measures being taken from time to 
time to protect civilians from harm from the 
training. 
AMENDMENT NO. 586, AS MODIFIED 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 
SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in Title 
IV for Research, Development, Test and 
Evaluation Army, up to $10,000,000 may be 
utilized for Army Space Control Technology. 

AMENDMENT NO. 590, AS MODIFIED 
At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. (a) Of the funds appropriated in 
title II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND 
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE’’ (other than the 
funds appropriated for space launch facilities), 
up to $7,300,000 may be available, in addition 
to other funds appropriated under 
that heading for space launch facilities, for a 
second team of personnel for space launch facilities 
for range reconfiguration to accommodate 
launch schedules. 

(b) The funds set aside under subsection (a) 
may not be obligated for any purpose other 
than the purpose specified in subsection (a). 
Mr. STEVENS. I move to reconsider 
the vote. 
Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 604 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I send 
to the desk an amendment by the Senator 
from New Mexico, Mr. DOMENICI, 
and ask unanimous consent for its immediate 
consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. The clerk 
will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS] 
for Mr. DOMENICI, proposes an amendment 
numbered 604. 

The amendment is as follows: 

On page 106, line 4, strike ‘‘The Communications 
Act’’ and insert ‘‘(a) The Communications 
Act of 1934’’. 

On page 107, between lines 4 and 5, insert 
the following: 

(b)(1) Not later than 15 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget and 
the Federal Communications Commission 
shall each submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report which shall— 

(A) set forth the anticipated schedule (including 
specific dates) for— 
(i) preparing and conducting the competitive 
bidding process required by subsection 
(a); and 
(ii) depositing the receipts of the competitive 
bidding process; 
(B) set forth each significant milestone in 
the rulemaking process with respect to the 
competitive bidding process; 
(C) include an explanation of the effect of 
each requirement in subsection (a) on the 
schedule for the competitive bidding process 
and any post-bidding activities (including 
the deposit of receipts) when compared with 
the schedule for the competitive bidding and 
any post-bidding activities (including the deposit 
of receipts) that would otherwise have 
occurred under section 337(b)(2) of the Communications 
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 337(b)(2)) if 
not for the enactment of subsection (a); 
(D) set forth for each spectrum auction 
held by the Federal Communications Commission 
since 1993 information on— 
(i) the time required for each stage of preparation 
for the auction; 
(ii) the date of the commencement and of 
the completion of the auction; 
(iii) the time which elapsed between the 
date of the completion of the auction and the 
date of the first deposit of receipts from the 
auction in the Treasury; and 
(iv) the dates of all subsequent deposits of 
receipts from the auction in the Treasury; 
and 
(E) include an assessment of how the 
stages of the competitive bidding process required 
by subsection (a), including preparation, 
commencement and completion, and 
deposit of receipts, will differ from similar 
stages in the auctions referred to in subparagraph 
(D). 
(2) Not later than October 5, 2000, the Director 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget and the Federal Communications 
Commission shall each submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees the report 
which shall— 
(A) describe the course of the competitive 
bidding process required by subsection (a) 
through September 30, 2000, including the 
amount of any receipts from the competitive 
bidding process deposited in the Treasury as 
of September 30, 2000; and 
(B) if the course of the competitive bidding 
process has included any deviations from the 
schedule set forth under paragraph (1)(A), an 
explanation for such deviations from the 
schedule. 
(3) The Federal Communications Commission 
may not consult with the Director in 
the preparation and submittal of the reports 
required of the Commission by this subsection. 
(4) In this subsection, the term ‘‘appropriate 
congressional committees’’ means the 
following: 
(A) The Committees on Appropriations, the 
Budget, and Commerce of the Senate. 
(B) The Committees on Appropriations, the 
Budget, and Commerce of the House of Representatives. 
Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
the amendment be agreed to. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment is agreed to. 
The amendment (No. 604) was agreed 
to. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 576 AND 585 

Mr. STEVENS. I call up amendments 
Nos. 576 and 585 and ask unanimous 
consent they be considered en bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
amendments Nos. 576 and 585 be 
agreed to en bloc. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendments are agreed 
to. 

The amendments (Nos. 576 and 585) 
were agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. I move to reconsider 
the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, there 
is just one remaining item. 

AMENDMENT NO. 574 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I call 
up Senator HUTCHISON’s amendment 
No. 574, and I ask unanimous consent 
that the amendment be agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment is agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 574) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I move 
to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to table was agreed to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 582 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I call 
up Senator KENNEDY’s amendment No. 
582. 

I ask unanimous consent that Senator 
LOTT’s name be added as a cosponsor 
of the amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
that the amendment be agreed to. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment is agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 582) was agreed 
to. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I move 
to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that Senator SMITH 
of New Hampshire be added as a cosponsor 
of the Kennedy amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. That is amendment 
No. 582, which we just adopted. 

AMENDMENT NO. 548 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, have I 
called up amendment No. 548? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alaska has not called up 
that amendment. 

Mr. STEVENS. The amendment of 
the Senator from New Hampshire, Mr. 
GREGG. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is 
correct. 

Mr. STEVENS. I urge the adoption of 
that amendment. It has been cleared. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendment is agreed to. 

The amendment (No. 548) was agreed 
to. 

AMENDMENT NO. 579 WITHDRAWN 

Mr. STEVENS. The amendment No. 
579 by Mr. DURBIN, has that been 
agreed to? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Not yet. 

Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
that that be withdrawn. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6681 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment (No. 579) was withdrawn. 


AMENDMENT NO. 583 WITHDRAWN 

Mr. STEVENS. Amendment No. 583 
by Mr. LEVIN, I ask unanimous consent 
that that amendment be withdrawn. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment (No. 583) was withdrawn. 


Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that Senator EDWARDS 
be added as a cosponsor of Biden 
amendment No. 547. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

AMENDMENTS NOS. 587 AND 605 THROUGH 607, EN 
BLOC 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I now 
send to the desk the amendment we 
had listed as No. 587, which is the remainder 
of the managers’ package. 

There is the amendment of Senator 
COVERDELL, a sense-of-the-Senate resolution; 
an amendment by myself for 
Senator BOND concerning procurement; 
an amendment pertaining to the 
McGregor Range Withdrawal Act in 
New Mexico for Senator DOMENICI; an 
amendment regarding military land 
withdrawals for myself. I ask that they 
be considered en bloc as the remainder 
of the managers’ package. They should 
be separately numbered at this point. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The assistant legislative clerk read 
as follows: 

The Senator from Alaska [Mr. STEVENS], 
for himself and on behalf of other Senators, 
proposes amendments en bloc numbered 587 
and 605 through 607. 

The amendments are as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 587 
(Purpose: To provide funds for the purchase 
of four (4) F–15E aircraft) 
In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 
‘‘SEC. . In addition to funds appropriated 
elsewhere in this Act, the amount appropriated 
in Title III of this Act under the 
heading ‘‘Aircraft Procurement, Air Force’’ 
is hereby increased by $220,000,000 only to 
procure four (4) F–15E aircraft; Provided, that 
the amount provided in Title IV of this Act 
under the heading ‘‘Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide’’ is hereby 
reduced by $50,000,000 to reduce the total 
amount available for National Missile Defense; 
Provided further, that the amount provided 
in Title III of this Act under the heading 
‘‘National Guard and Reserve Equipment’’ 
is hereby reduced by $50,000,000 on a 
pro-rata basis; Provided further, that the 
amount provided in Title III of this Act 
under the heading ‘‘Aircraft procurement, 
Air Force’’ is hereby reduced by $70,000,000 to 
reduce the total amount available for Spares 
and Repair Parts; Provided further, that the 
amount provided in Title III of this Act 
under the heading ‘‘Aircraft Procurement, 
Navy’’ is hereby reduced by $50,000,000 to reduce 
the total amount available for Spares 
and Repair Parts. 

AMENDMENT NO. 605 
(Purpose: To express the sense of the Senate 

regarding the investigation into the June 

25, 1996 bombing of Khobar Towers) 

At the appropriate place, insert: 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the following 
findings: 
(1) On June 25, 1996, a bomb detonated not 
more than 80 feet from the Air Force housing 
complex known as Khobar Towers in 
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, killing 19 members 
of the Air Force, and injuring hundreds 
more; 
(2) An FBI investigation of the bombing, 
soon to enter its fourth year, has not yet determined 
who was responsible for the attack; 
and 
(3) The Senate in S. Res. 273 in the 104th 
Congress condemned this terrorist attack in 
the strongest terms and urged the United 
States Government to use all reasonable 
means available to the Government of the 
United States to punish the parties responsible 
for the bombings. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that: 
(1) The United States Government must 
continue its investigation into the Khobar 
Towers bombing until every terrorist involved 
is identified, held accountable, and 
punished; 
(2) The FBI, together with the Department 
of State, should report to Congress no later 
than December 31, 1999, on the status of its 
investigation into the Khobar Towers bombing; 
and 
(3) Once responsibility for the attack has 
been established the United States Government 
must take steps to punish the parties 
involved. 
(The text of the amendments (Nos. 
606 and 607) is printed in today’s 
RECORD under ‘‘Amendments Submitted.’’) 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, the amendments are agreed 
to. 

The amendments (Nos. 587 and 605 
through 607) were agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I move 
to reconsider the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 

The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 

Mr. STEVENS. Now, are there any 
further amendments that need to be 
disposed of that would qualify? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is 
none. 

STRATEGIC AIRLIFT 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I rise 
today to address the question of strategic 
airlift. In this bill, the Managers 
have attempted to accelerate and increase 
funding for new modern programs, 
specifically the C–17, in lieu of 
investing scarce resources in older aircraft. 


Mr. President, currently C–17s are 
only assigned to a few bases. We recognize 
some members are concerned that 
by focusing on the C–17, those strategic 
airlift bases without C–17s will suffer. I 
recognize this legitimate concern and 
want to ask the Chairman his views on 
the basing of C–17 aircraft. Would the 
Senator agree with me that C–17s 
should be assigned to additional bases 
to replace aging C–141 and C–5 aircraft? 

Mr. STEVENS. I fully agree with the 
Senator’s statement. I believe that C– 
17s should be used to replace many 
other strategic aircraft and that the 
basing strategy of the Air Force needs 
to take this into account. 

Mr. INOUYE. Would the Chairman 
agree that one of the bases that should 
have top priority for C–17s is Dover Air 
Force Base in Delaware? 

Mr. STEVENS. I strongly agree. 
Dover is one of the key supply bases for 
all of our operations in Europe and the 
Middle East. I think it requires the C– 
17 as soon as possible. The bill before 
the Senate adds multi-year authority 
to purchase more C–17s and I think 
both our Pacific based forces and forces 
designated to supply Europe need C–17s 
to stay modern and ready. 

Mr. INOUYE. I thank the Senator for 
his comments. He and I have both expressed 
support in the past for getting 
C–17s assigned to the Pacific. I am glad 
to hear him say that Dover Air Force 
Base is also a very high priority for C– 
17s. 

I stand ready to work with the Senator 
on ensuring that our Pacific bases 
and Dover Air Force Base receive the 
C–17s as expeditiously as possible. 

MARSHALL FOUNDATION AND JUNIOR ROTC 

Mr. INOUYE. Mr. President, I commend 
the Chairman for recognizing the 
importance of the Junior Reserve Officers’ 
Training Corps, JROTC, for our 
nation’s high schools through his support 
of the program in this bill. 

I ask if the Chairman is familiar with 
the George C. Marshall Foundation, 
which assists in the training of ROTC 
cadets nationwide. 

This foundation has worked for over 
20 years to develop the Marshall ROTC 
award and seminar. The Marshall 
Foundation now wishes to adapt this 
leadership program for the JROTC. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, my 
good friend from Hawaii asks an important 
question. I am familiar with the 
Marshall Foundation and am interested 
in the prospect of adapting this 
program to the Junior ROTC. 

The committee would be interested 
in any support the Department of Defense 
could provide to this important 
mission. The Marshall Foundation has 
helped to promote ethical leadership 
for ROTC cadets and midshipmen, and 
we all know that any effort to improve 
citizenship in the nation’s youth 
should be supported. The Department 
of Defense should support the Marshall 
Foundation. 

Mr. INOUYE. I thank the Chairman. 

JOINT COMPUTER-AIDED ACQUISITION AND 
LOGISTICS SUPPORT PROGRAM 

Mr. BYRD. Will my friend, the distinguished 
Chairman of the Committee on 
Appropriations, who also ably serves as 
the Chairman of the Subcommittee on 
Defense, the Senator from Alaska, 
yield for a colloquy? 

Mr. STEVENS. I am pleased to yield 
to the distinguished Senator from West 
Virginia. 

Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I believe 
the Joint Computer-Aided Acquisition 
and Logistics Support, JCALS, program 
is one of the most successful 
joint defense programs in the information 
technology area. It was begun in 
1991 to automate the acquisition and 
logistics processes that support the Defense 
Department’s weapon systems— 


S6682 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

to provide a paperless acquisition and 
procurement process across all major 
defense agencies and commands. For 
example, at the Defense Logistics 
Agency, the Electronic Folderization 
Contract used to require 126 tons of 
paper and 100 days for an acquisition 
cycle. As a direct result of JCALS, the 
process is now paperless and the acquisition 
cycle takes just 15 days. The 
DOD estimates that JCALS will save 
$2.3 billion through 2014 just by 
digitizing documents that now are prepared 
in paper form. 

Is my understanding correct that the 
FY 2000 Defense Appropriations bill 
now before the Senate contains the 
President’s budget request of $154.1 
million for JCALS, with $121.8 million 
in the Army Operations and Maintenance 
account and $32.3 million in the 
Army Other Procurement account? 

Mr. STEVENS. The Senator is correct. 


Mr. BYRD. I thank the Chairman for 
his assurances. If I may inquire further, 
is it also my understanding that 
it is the committee’s intent that all of 
these JCALS funds, including those in 
the Operations and Maintenance account 
allocated for defense information 
infrastructure (DII) purposes, are to be 
spent exclusively on activities directly 
related to JCALS? 

Mr. STEVENS. The Senator is correct 
that it is our strong intention that 
all JCALS funds, including those allocated 
for so-called defense information 
infrastructure, be used exclusively for 
direct JCALS work, as provided in the 
budget request. 

Mr. BYRD. I thank the Chairman. If 
he would yield for a final question, am 
I correct in my understanding that it is 
the Committee’s further intent that all 
JCALS defense information infrastructure 
funds provided in the Army Operations 
& Maintenance account, approximately 
$20 million, are to be allocated 
to the JCALS southeast regional 
technical center currently located in 
Fairmont, West Virginia? I am advised 
that to the maximum extent practicable, 
the contractor plans to use 
these funds in Hinton, West Virginia, 
to further develop JCALS capabilities 
to support weapons systems. 

Mr. STEVENS. The Senator from 
West Virginia is correct. 

Mr. BYRD. I thank the Senator for 
his clarification and assistance with 
this most important issue. 

IMPROVED MATERIALS POWERTRAIN 
ARCHITECTURES FOR 21ST CENTURY TRUCKS 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, my 
request for $8 million for ‘‘Improved 
HMMWV Research’’ under Army 
RDT&E, ‘‘Combat Vehicle and Automotive 
Advanced Technology’’ was incorporated 
in this year’s defense appropriations 
bill. These funds are intended 
to initiate a third phase of the design, 
demonstration and validation of ultralight, 
steel-based structures and advanced 
powertrain architectures on 
high volume truck platforms. 

This research effort, competitively 
selected by the Army in fiscal year 1999 

subsequent to the submittal of the 
President’s Budget is titled ‘‘Improved 
Materials Powertrain Architectures for 
21st Century Trucks,’’ IMPACT. The 
full program will cover light/medium 
military payloads up to five tons, including 
applications with an open or 
closed bed configuration currently 
serviced by several of the Army’s 
HMMWV variants. 

Kentucky is a large commercial producer 
and Army base user of such vehicles, 
and now, through the University 
of Louisville’s involvement in this effort, 
it will also play an important research 
role in their design and testing. 
The military should realize significant 
procurement and O&M cost savings as 
a result. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I 
thank the Senator from Kentucky for 
correctly clarifying the intent of these 
funds. 

SOUTH CAROLINA-NEW YORK CANCER 
PREVENTION AND TELEHEALTH PROGRAM 

Mr. HOLLINGS. Mr. President I 
would like the attention of my colleagues 
to point out a fine program 
worthy of funding in the Defense Appropriations 
bill. the South Carolina-
New York Cancer Prevention and Telehealth 
Program design will build on 
the successful prostate cancer prevention, 
research, and telemedicine protocol 
which has already been established 
at the Medical University of 
South Carolina (MUSC) through the 
support of the Department of Defense. 
The current protocol will be expanded 
to employ real-time, state-of-the-art 
telemedicine training and technology 
to prevent, detect, and diagnose prostate 
cancer in our men in uniform. The 
program will utilize expertise of leading 
medical institutions such as MUSC 
and Sloan Kettering Memorial Cancer 
Center to provide our military servicemen 
with treatment at Walter Reed 
Army Medical Center, Keller Army 
Community Hospital at the US Military 
Academy at West Point, and the 
Beaufort Naval Hospital. 

Mr. INOUYE. Would the Senator 
yield? 

Mr. HOLLINGS. I yield to the distinguished 
Senator from Hawaii. 

Mr. INOUYE. I appreciate the distinguished 
Senator bringing this program 
to the Senate’s attention. Last Year, I 
supported including the MUSC telehealth 
program in the Department of 
Defense Appropriations bill. I agree 
with the Senator from South Carolina 
that the continued expansion of this 
program should be included in this FY 
2000 bill. 

Mr. HOLLINGS. I thank the distinguished 
Senator from Hawaii. 

Mr. STEVENS. Would the Senator 
yield for a question? 

Mr. HOLLINGS. I yield to the distinguished 
Chairman. 

Mr. STEVENS. I, too, supported this 
program, and as you know I am committed 
to promoting the best health 
care possible for the men and women 
who serve our country. Briefly Senator, 
would you explain who the pri


mary beneficiaries of this program 
would be? 

Mr. HOLLINGS. I appreciate the 
Chairman’s support and would point 
out that past and present cancer research 
demonstrate that these telemedicine 
techniques would be beneficial 
to military populations. this 
telehealth program will replicate the 
success of the South Carolina model in 
New York. Once validation of this has 
been accomplished, a much broader application 
can be made to other types of 
cancers at military sites throughout 
the nation. 

Mr. STEVENS. I assure my colleague 
that we will continue to work together 
as this bill moves forward. 

SENSOR NETWORK DEMONSTRATION 

Mr. COVERDELL . Mr. President, as 
the Chairman knows, the threat of 
chemical and biological warfare agent 
incidents due to accidents or acts of 
terrorism is real. I applaud the attention 
and support provided by the Committee 
in S. 1122 to research activities 
on detection and response technologies 
to these threats. It has come to my attention 
that interferometric sensors 
are one of the most promising technologies 
for creating relatively inexpensive, 
small, adaptable, highly sensitive 
chemical detectors. Such sensors 
are ideally suited for deployment in domestic 
emergency warning networks 
when integrated with technologies 
such as geographic information systems. 
Is it the committee’s intention 
that all promising detection technologies, 
including interferometric 
sensors, be part of the Department’s 
chemical and biological defense research 
program? 

Mr. STEVENS. Yes, the committee 
directs the Department of Defense to 
explore all promising detector technologies 
including interferometric sensors. 


Mr. COVERDELL. As the committee 
noted in its report on S. 1122, the Marine 
Corps’ Chemical Biological Incident 
Response Force, also known as 
CBIRF, has an important responsibility 
in responding to chemical/biological 
threats and that their activities 
should be fully integrated with the Department’s 
chemical-biological defense 
program. It is my understanding that 
the Marine Corps is prepared to conduct 
a coordinated civilian and military 
chemical incident demonstration 
that would integrate sophisticated sensor 
technology like that 
interferometric sensors I just mentioned, 
into a detection network. My 
area of the country would make an 
ideal place for such a demonstration 
because of the presence of chemical 
agents and demilitarization facilities 
in the region and because the region 
has been the target of terrorist activities 
in the past. Does the committee 
agree that such a joint civilian and 
military exercise is an appropriate part 
of developing chemical and biological 
detection technologies and can be funded 
out of the additional funds made 
available by the committee under Marine 
Corps Program Wide Support? 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6683 

Mr. STEVENS. The committee 
agrees that such a demonstration by 
the Marine Corps CBIRF unit is an appropriate 
activity and should be considered 
through funding currently 
available in the bill. 

FUEL CELL POWER SYSTEMS 

Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, as you 
know, fuel and power logistics support 
are mission critical elements for the 
success of the Air Force ‘‘Air Expeditionary 
Force Deployment’’ concept. 
The Defense Department has long recognized 
that fuel cell power systems 
can reduce the logistics requirements 
for batteries and liquid fuels, and improve 
operational effectiveness of various 
military systems. The Air Force 
Research Laboratory is the original developer 
of a polymer membrane material 
that can improve performance and 
significantly lower the cost of fuel 
cells. Unfortunately, reductions in the 
FY 2000 Air Force Science and Technology 
budget threaten to terminate 
Air Force investments in fuel cell development. 


I commend my good friend Chairman 
STEVENS and my good friend and colleague 
in the Senate, Senator INOUYE, 
the Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee, for the Committee’s 
efforts to adequately fund the 
Air Force’s Science and Technology 
programs. 

I believe that the Air Force should 
continue to pursue improvements to 
polymer processing technique and to 
transition the membrane material for 
fuel cell production. There are several 
specific missions and applications that 
will benefit from fuel cell technology 
including Air Expeditionary Force Deployment 
(AEFD), Aerospace Ground 
Equipment (AGE), Rapid Global Mobility 
(RGM) and battlefield computers 
that need to operate 16 to 32 times 
longer than heavy battery powered systems. 
In addition, future Air Force 
mission plans are based on space missions 
at or above the edge of the 
earth’s stratosphere. In these missions 
fuel cells can play a major role in 
meeting the energy requirements and 
improving mission efficiency and effectiveness. 


The commercial and military fuel 
cell market projections are significant—
greater than $100 billion per year 
by the year 2006. Seldom is the opportunity 
for across the board dual use 
benefit for the government and commercial 
sector as vivid as it is for fuel 
cells. Chairman STEVENS, I’m sure that 
you will agree that the Air Force 
should pursue the prototype scale-up, 
optimization and full-scale demonstration 
of an advanced solid polymer electrolyte 
fuel cell that uses PBO based 
membranes. 

Mr. INOUYE. I thank my good friend 
and colleague, Senator KENNEDY, for 
his kind remarks regarding this Committee’s 
work on the FY 2000 Defense 
Appropriations Bill. I recognize the importance 
of investing in logistics technologies 
that can extend our military 
capabilities and can lower the logistics 

burden for the Air Expeditionary Force 
Deployment concept. 

I agree with my colleague that development 
of the PBO fuel cell membrane 
material is important. The membrane 
is a critical component of the fuel cell, 
in terms of its performance and cost. 
Improvements to the fuel cell membrane 
will result in direct benefits to 
our military readiness. 

Mr. STEVENS. I also wish to thank 
the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts 
for his kind remarks about 
this important Defense spending bill. I 
share the Senator’s concern about levels 
of investment by the Air Force in 
Science and Technology. In the past, 
wise investments in Science and Technology 
resulted in many of the military 
systems on which our men and 
women in the military depend today. 

The Air Force Air Expeditionary 
Force Deployment concept is of great 
interest to the Committee. Fuel Cells 
can reduce the logistics burden for 
many military systems used in peace 
keeping and humanitarian relief operations, 
as well as for combat operations. 
I agree that the Air Force 
should consider the development of 
fuel cell membrane materials. 

HIGH SECURITY LOCK PROGRAM 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
rise today to discuss an issue that is 
both important and timely—the security 
of our nation’s secrets and classified 
material. 

Two days ago a bipartisan committee 
released a report detailing a level of espionage 
that few Americans expected. 
American’s most vital nuclear information 
was stolen from the very places 
that were supposed to be the most secure. 
I am not here to cast blame but, 
rather, wish to discuss a program designed 
to help reduce the risk of this 
type of travesty. 

The Department of Defense has in 
place a Federal Specification, FF–L– 
2740, which sets the minimum requirements 
for locks to be used on any container 
storing classified materials. The 
Department, to its credit, is near completion 
of a program to retro-fit all 
containers which do not currently 
meet that specification. 

However, there remains an area 
where our classified materials are vulnerable. 
As Senator STEVENS knows, 
contractors also store classified documents 
throughout the country. Unfortunately, 
they often do so in containers 
bearing locks which do not 
meet Federal Specification FF–L–2740. 
So, I would ask my colleague, Senator 
STEVENS, does he believe that our nation’s 
classified documents should be 
properly stored, whether housed at a 
governmental agency or contractor’s 
office? 

Mr. STEVENS. I respond to the Senator 
from Kentucky that I absolutely 
support the safe storage of all classified 
documents. For this reason, I was 
happy to accommodate your request to 
include an additional $10 million dollars 
for the specific purpose of retrofitting 
security containers managed by 

contractors with locks which meet or 
exceed federal specification FF–L–2740. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. I thank the Senator 
and applaud his leadership on this 
national security issue. 

I also want to make the entire Senate 
aware of a letter written by the 
Chairman and Vice Chairman of the 
Senate Intelligence Committee. Senators 
SHELBY and KERREY wrote to the 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Command, Control, Communications 
and Intelligence and pointed out that 
‘‘It appears the outdated, non-compliant 
locks still employed by Defense 
contractors cannot adequately prevent 
surreptitious entry.’’ They go on to 
state that ‘‘FF–L–2740 compliant locks 
are more cost-effective than the devices 
currently in use.’’ Finally, they 
close by stating that they ‘‘believe 
DOD should consider directing the retrofit 
of Defense contractors’ equipment.’’ 


I thank the Senator from Alaska for 
his support of the $10 million appropriation 
for this retrofit program. His 
leadership will help prevent the type of 
espionage that has dominated the news 
in recent days. 

Mr. STEVENS. I thank the Senator 
from Kentucky for his comments. 

TROOPS TO TEACHERS PROGRAM 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I 
have been concerned that the extension 
and improvement of the Troops-to-
Teachers program recently authorized 
in the FY 2000 National Defense Authorization 
bill, S. 1059, Section 579, 
might not be funded this year. As my 
colleagues are well aware, this program 
will provide excellent assistance to retired 
military personnel in obtaining 
teaching credentials to enable them to 
make the transition from the military 
to the classroom in an expedited way. 
Retired military personnel are highly 
trained professionals, particularly in 
scientific and technical fields—an area 
in which the nation’s school systems 
are in dire need of trained professionals. 
Troops-to-teachers offer stipends 
to personnel retiring from the 
military to obtain teaching credentials 
or vocational instruction certificates 
needed for primary through secondary 
schools. It’s program by which everyone 
wins. 

I am advised that the President’s 
budget requests $18 million in funding 
for FY 2000 under the jurisdiction of 
the Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Education subcommittee of the 
Senate Appropriations Committee. 
Since the Defense Authorization bill 
would extend Department of Defense 
management over the program until it 
transfers responsibility to the Department 
of Education at a date not later 
than October 1, 2001, it is essential that 
the funding be maintained during this 
period of transition. 

Mr. STEVENS. I thank the Senator 
from New Mexico for his support for 
this initiative which I sponsored in this 
year’s Defense Authorization bill. I 
agree that it is a critical program benefiting 
our nation’s children and 


S6684 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

schools. While I recognize the Senator 
from New Mexico’s concerns, I believe 
it is important to remember that the 
intent of this initiative is to transfer 
the Troops to Teachers program to the 
Department of Education. Funding to 
increase and strengthen this important 
program is meant to come from the Department 
of Education, not the Department 
of Defense. Furthermore, we 
agreed to delay transfer of this program 
from DOD to DOE until 2001 in 
order to ensure a smooth transition 
which affords minimal disruption to 
the current program and infrastructure. 
Our legislation clearly stipulates 
that expansion of this program through 
an infusion of funds is meant to be 
done at the Department of Education 
with Department of Education funds 
and not while the program is being 
transferred from the DOD. I am committed 
to working with my colleagues, 
including the Senator from New Mexico 
who is an original cosponsor of this 
measure, to ensure that the appropriate 
funds are allocated for the Department 
of Education allowing this 
agency to reform and strengthen the 
program as authorized by the Senate. 

Mr. BINGAMAN. I fully support that 
view and appreciate his leadership on 
this important initiative. The Nation’s 
schools and the Nation’s students will 
be the better for it. Mr. President, I 
yield the floor. 

DDG–51 ADVANCE PROCUREMENT FUNDING 

Ms. SNOWE. Mr. President, I draw 
the attention of the distinguished 
Chairman of the Appropriations Committee 
to a funding provision of the FY 
2000 Defense Authorization Bill that 
passed after the Appropriations Committee 
had completed its military 
budget mark-up last month. Title X of 
the Authorization Bill allows the Secretary 
of the Navy to expend no more 
than $190 million for the advance procurement 
of components to support the 
planned construction of DDG–51 Arleigh 
Burke-class destroyers in Fiscal Years 
2002 and 2003. The Navy, as the Chairman 
knows, has already written to 
Congress that it will need $371 million 
for this purpose by FY 2001, but the obligation 
of some of this amount next 
fiscal year may reduce programmatic 
risks. 

Mr. STEVENS. I thank the Chair of 
the Senate Armed Services Seapower 
Subcommittee for highlighting the 
DDG–51 advance procurement provision 
of the FY 2000 Defense Authorization 
Bill. I am aware of this initiative and 
strongly support it as a means of providing 
the Secretary of the Navy with 
the flexibility to release up to 50% of 
the DDG–51 advance procurement budget 
in FY 2000 should he determine that 
vendor and supplier base stability warrants 
such expenditures. 

Ms. SNOWE. I thank the Chairman of 
the Appropriations Committee for his 
understanding and support of this critical 
shipbuilding amendment. 
PROCUREMENT OF A 20TH LARGE, MEDIUM SPEED 

ROLL ON/ROLL OFF VESSEL 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. The Marine Corps 
has an unfunded requirement for one 

additional sealift ship to complete 
their Maritime Prepositioning Force 
Enhancement [MPF (E)] program. In 
recent testimony before the Senate 
Armed Services Committee, Lieutenant 
General Martin Steele concluded 
that ‘‘obtaining a 20th Large, Medium 
Speed Roll-on/Roll-off vessel (LMSR) 
and converting an LMSR to meet all 
MPF (E) requirements is the best solution 
to our third ship requirement.’’ 
General Steele also notes that the situation 
in Kosovo has highlighted the 
need for the additional ship. In light of 
these comments, I believe that it is essential 
that Congress fund the procurement 
of the 20th LMSR. 

Mr. INOUYE. The Army has agreed 
to release an LMSR to the Marine 
Corps as long as Congress provides 
funding in the Fiscal Year 2000 defense 
budget for the construction of a new 
ship to replace the one given to the 
Marines. This presents us with an excellent 
opportunity to fulfill both requirements. 


Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I agree. Funding 
the vessel will be a win, win, win proposition 
for the military. The Marine 
Corps will get their third MPF (E) in a 
timely manner and at minimal cost, 
the Army could reach an end state 
with all eight ships for prepositioning 
being identical, and the new ship would 
fill a current sealift shortage of 70,000 
square feet of RO/RO in surge sealift. 
The previous LMSRs have been delivered 
ahead of schedule and under budget. 
Funding the 20th ship at this time 
will save taxpayer dollars in the long 
run, by keeping the production lien 
open. 

Mr. STEVENS. There is a clear military 
requirement for the procurement 
of this ship. Unfortunately, we are 
working under tight budget restrictions. 
Should funds become available, I 
believe that Congress should give careful 
consideration to procuring a 20th 
LMSR to meet the Marine Corps’ 
prepositioning needs. 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I thank the Chairman 
and Ranking Member for their 
willingness to work with me on this 
issue. 

INNOVATIVE READINESS TRAINING 

Mr. DORGAN. I understand that the 
Fiscal Year 2000 Defense Appropriations 
bill contains $20 million for innovative 
readiness training. Under this 
program, the Department of Defense 
trains Active Duty, Guard and Reserve 
personnel by providing ‘‘real world’’ experience 
here in the US which is similar 
to what might be encountered in 
Overseas Humanitarian and Civic Assistance 
Programs. Under the Innovative 
Readiness Program, the Walking 
Shield American Indian Society has 
provided such training opportunities 
on American Indian reservations especially 
those located in the states of 
North and South Dakota and Montana. 
Without the support and cooperation of 
the Walking Shield American Indian 
Society, many of the engineering and 
medical projects conducted by the Department 
of Defense would not have 

been possible. This type of civilian-
military program has a very positive 
impact on recruiting and retention and 
should be continued in FY 2000. 

I understand that the report accompanying 
the Fiscal Year 2000 Appropriations 
bill for the Department of Defense 
notes that the Committee believes 
that the Department should expand 
the scope of readiness initiatives 
to include Native American groups, 
when appropriate and compatible with 
mission requirements. Is that correct? 

Mr. STEVENS. Yes, it is. 

Mr. DORGAN. Are you familiar with 
the work of Project Walking Shield and 
the Walking Shield American Indian 
Society which conduct health, housing, 
road construction and other projects 
suitable for military training on Indian 
Reservations? 

Mr. STEVENS. Yes, I am familiar 
with the work of this excellent group 
and the benefits it provides not only to 
the military but to the tribes served by 
its activities. 

Mr. DORGAN. Would you agree that 
this group provides the kinds of training 
opportunities envisioned for the Innovative 
Readiness Program and it 
should continue its partnership with 
the Department and its support and cooperation 
in Fiscal Year 2000? 

Mr. STEVENS. This type of partnership 
is one we are trying to encourage. 

Mr. INOUYE. I share my colleague’s 
enthusiasm for this excellent program. 

Mr. STEVENS. Yes, I agree that the 
Society’s work is what we want to encourage 
in this account. 

JROTC 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I wish to 
engage the distinguished Chairman of 
the Senate Appropriations Committee 
and the Defense Subcommittee, Senator 
STEVENS, in a brief colloquy regarding 
the Junior Reserve Officer 
Training Corps program (JROTC). 

As Chairman STEVENS may know, the 
Chicago Public Schools have developed 
and implemented a very successful 
JROTC program. Since the program 
began, it has served over 7,500 cadets 
from all four branches of the armed 
services and helped these students 
achieve better grades, attendance, conduct, 
and higher graduation rates. The 
Chicago Public Schools are now in need 
of expanding the successful JROTC program 
to an additional 10 high schools, 
including the Chicago Military Academy 
at Bronzeville. And, they are attempting 
to enter partnerships with all 
of the branches of the armed services 
in order to better serve interested students. 


The Senate bill includes an increase 
for JROTC of $3.5 million. Is it the understanding 
of Chairman STEVENS that 
successful programs like the one in 
Chicago should be able to work with 
the Department of Defense and the various 
branches to receive funding? 

Mr. STEVENS. I am aware of the fine 
work being done by the Chicago Public 
Schools in the area of JROTC. It is an 
example of a program that works. It is 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6685 

my understanding that a number of 
Chicago high schools would like to include 
JROTC as part of their curriculum. 
I believe that the level of 
funding for JROTC in the Senate bill 
would give programs like the one in 
the Chicago Public Schools an opportunity 
to work with the branches of 
the armed services in order to expand. 

BANKING SERVICES ON DOMESTIC BASES 

Mr. BOND. Mr. President, the Department 
of Defense is currently drafting 
proposed regulations to establish a 
procedure on how military bases are to 
solicit and select bids from financial 
institutions to provide banking services 
on domestic military bases. The 
regulations are likely to be issued in 
June of this year. I understand that the 
regulations may establish a presumption 
in favor of bids received from local 
banks over the bids received from any 
other bank. 

It is important that these new regulations 
not prevent base commanders 
from approving a bid from a financial 
institution that specializes in providing 
banking services to military 
personnel, if its bid would provide 
lower cost and more convenient banking 
services than a bid submitted by a 
local bank. There are several financial 
institutions in this country that have 
made it their business to provide banking 
services to our armed forces. Their 
ability to provide affordable and convenient 
banking services to our military 
personnel is evident from the bids 
they have won to establish branches at 
bases across the country. The Department 
of Defense should hold an open 
and competitive bidding process for the 
establishment of bank branches on 
military installations and should not 
shut out these specialized banks from 
the process. 

I do not suggest that the location of 
a bank not be a consideration in the selection 
process. However, it should not 
be the primary criterion. The cost and 
convenience of banking services for our 
military personnel should be the overriding 
factor in determining the bid 
that is selected, regardless of whether 
it is a bid from a local bank or a specialized 
military bank. I intend to follow 
this regulation closely as it is developed. 
If it is not written in a manager 
that best serves the interests of 
our military personnel, I may seek a 
legislative change of this policy. 

Mr. STEVENS. I thank my colleague 
from Missouri for bringing this issue to 
the attention of this body. I agree that 
it is an issue of concern, and I intend 
to work with my colleague should a 
legislative solution be necessary. 

BIOENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS RESEARCH 

Ms. LANDRIEU. Mr. President, the 
Defense Department needs the capability 
to assess and prevent both the 
adverse impacts of its operations and 
training activities on the environment, 
as well as the adverse health effects of 
contaminated environments on its 
troops and employees. One particular 
area of interest is in bioenvironmental 
hazards research, which focuses on the 

development of biosensors and biomarkers 
of exposure for human and ecological 
system. 

The Office of Naval Research (ONR) 
and the Naval Oceanographic Office 
(NAVOCEANO) are currently expanding 
existing research capabilities in 
basic and applied environmental 
sciences of aquatic systems. The purpose 
of this research is both to understand 
the processes of riverine and gulf 
systems and to understand the impacts 
of human development on estuaries and 
harbor systems throughout the world. 
This work complements other ‘‘brown 
water’’ research initiatives in ONR, 
particularly the STRATAFORM program 
which is looking at issues of sea 
level change, climate variability, and 
riverine runoff. 

The joint technology development of 
the biosensors can be used in autonomous 
underwater vehicles, which have 
direct application in support of 
NAVOCEANO military surveys in the 
Littoral Zones and the pre-invasion 
mission to detect mines and obstacles 
for clearance/avoidance in the Very 
Shallow Water (VSW) and Surf Zone 
(SZ) approaches to the amphibious 
landing areas. 

Specifically, the biosensor’s role during 
military surveys conducted by 
NAVOCEANO will be to collect the 
natural ‘‘background’’ environmental 
harmful agents to personnel that work 
in the waters of the littoral zones. Development 
of this definitive database 
will support the intelligence requirements 
of the SEAL, EOD, and amphibious 
assault teams. Moreover, biosensors 
will improve the probability of 
mission success, endurance and survivability 
of SEAL swimmers through detection 
of harmful agents during the 
initial environmental surveys. This 
health-risk assessment will involve the 
prediction and monitoring of waters 
polluted (either naturally or by intention 
or both by the opposing forces) 
with heavy metals, microbial hazards, 
chemical hazards, environmental 
chemicals, toxic organisms, and areas 
of outflow from waste treatment plants 
prior to the hunt for mines and obstacles. 


Congress should encourage the Defense 
Department and the Navy to pursue 
research and development of technologies 
and methods for better measuring 
and understanding the full range 
of impacts of biological hazards, including 
biological warfare, to humans 
(both military and civilian) and other 
living organisms. This will improve our 
ability to develop suitable preparations 
or responses to such hazards. 

I would like to ask my colleague 
from Alaska, would he be willing to 
look at this need and, if appropriate, 
provide additional support for this research 
effort before we are asked to 
give final approval to the Defense Appropriations 
bill later this year? 

Mr. STEVENS. I thank the senator 
from Louisiana for raising this issue. I 
understand why the Navy has a need to 
better understand the aquatic environ


ment into which it will send its personnel 
and equipment. I am willing to 
look at the need to support additional 
research in this area and to recommend 
an appropriate response if one is indicated. 


Ms. LANDRIEU. I thank my colleague 
and I look forward to working 
with him to provide for a strong integrated 
bioenvironmental hazards research 
capability for the Navy. 

DISTANCE LEARNING 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I wish to 
engage the distinguished Chairman of 
the Senate Appropriations Committee 
and the Defense Subcommittee, Senator 
STEVENS, in a brief colloquy regarding 
distance learning. 

As Chairman STEVENS may know, the 
City Colleges of Chicago Europe has 
been providing college degree and certificate 
programs to the U.S. military 
service members and their families in 
Europe since 1969. In fact, the City Colleges 
of Chicago was one of the early 
pioneers in distance learning. Today, 
the program offers over 70 courses on 
the Internet and provides interactive 
television courses via satellite to U.S. 
peacekeeping forces stationed in the 
Sinai Desert, Bosnia, and Hungary. 

The Senate bill includes an increase 
for distance learning of $45 million. Is 
it the understanding of Chairman STEVENS 
that successful programs like the 
City Colleges of Chicago Europe should 
be able to work with the Department of 
Defense to receive funding? 

Mr. STEVENS. I am aware of the 
Center for Opening Learning at the 
City Colleges of Chicago—Harold Washington 
College. I believe that the level 
of funding for distance learning in the 
Senate bill would give programs like 
the Center for Opening Learning an opportunity 
to work with the Department 
of Defense in order to develop additional 
courses and enhance new 
learning technologies that will ultimately 
help military students stationed 
overseas. 

ELECTRIC DRIVE 

Mr. KOHL. Mr. President, I rise to inform 
the Senate of recent engineering 
breakthroughs in the area of naval propulsion. 
In the past few years, industry 
has been working hard to develop electric 
drive technology that could be 
used in a naval vessel. Electric drive 
would replace the traditional mechanical 
drive system, that turns the ship’s 
propellers through a system of reduction 
gears, with a system that uses 
electricity directly to turn the engines 
and power the rest of the ship’s systems. 


Electric drive offers major benefits 
over mechanical drive. It is more efficient 
in terms of reduced fuel consumption 
and requires fewer crew to maintain. 
It can also generate more power 
than mechanical systems. Electric 
drive is also quieter, making it an attractive 
option for submarines, or any 
vessel concerned with stealth. Industry 
analysts believe electric drive could 
save the Navy $4.3 billion over the life 
of the new destroyer program, the DD– 
21, alone. 


S6686 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

Last year the appropriations committee 
included a provision in the Department 
of Defense Appropriations 
bill asking the Navy to produce a report 
on the potential for electric drive. 
The Secretary of the Navy released the 
study in March, a study that was a 
powerful endorsement of the electric 
drive technology. This report points to 
electric drive as a technology that will 
no doubt have major implications for 
the future of naval ship design and engineering. 
I hope the Navy will continue 
its research efforts, and make 
every effort to include this technology 
in the next generation of destroyers, 
the DD–21. I also hope the Defense Appropriations 
Subcommittee will maintain 
its interest in the program and 
continue its support. 

Mr. STEVENS. I thank Senator 
KOHL. I agree that the Navy should 
continue its research efforts into electric 
drive, and it should strongly consider 
the benefits it could bring to the 
DD–21 Class of destroyers. In addition, 
I am aware that this technology will 
also provide important benefits to 
other future Navy ships such as improved 
stealth for future submarines. 
By developing a modular, common integrated 
system, where major system 
elements can be used on all new Navy 
ship designs without any design 
changes, the Navy can also realize the 
multiple benefits of reduced training 
and logistics costs, as well as significant 
production cost savings. 

Mr. INOUYE. I concur with the opinions 
of the chairman and of Senator 
KOHL. I consider it essential that our 
Navy be equipped with the most advanced 
technology in their future 
ships. Since electric drive not only offers 
significant operational benefits, 
but also significant savings, I most 
strongly urge the Navy to continue its 
research work and make every effort to 
ensure that this technology is deployed 
on DD–21. 

Mr. KOHL. As I am sure the chairman 
and ranking member are aware, 
much of the research into this technology 
has been privately funded. General 
Dynamics and Eaton Corporation, 
among others, have been leaders in the 
field of electric drive and their efforts 
have been crucial to moving the development 
along. Their investment has 
presented the Navy and Congress with 
an excellent opportunity to take advantage 
of developments financed in 
the private sector. As the Navy continues 
to evaluate electric drive and 
the DD–21 program I hope the committee 
will be ready to capitalize on 
that investment. 

Mr. INOUYE. I agree that this presents 
us with an excellent opportunity. 
The committee will certainly give the 
Navy consideration should it make an 
additional request for funding for electric 
drive research. 

Mr. STEVENS. The potential of electric 
drive is certainly worth exploring, 
and the committee would be willing to 
consider a request from the Navy if 
they believe it is critical to the DD–21 
design effort. 

Mr. KOHL. I thank both Senators for 
their support of continuing research 
and evaluation of electric drive. Senators 
STEVENS and INOUYE have long 
been known for their clear vision when 
it comes to supporting cutting edge 
military technology, and that reputation 
is well deserved. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I rise 
in strong support of the bill before us 
today. I would like to sincerely thank 
Senators STEVENS and INOUYE for their 
strong leadership on the Defense Subcommittee. 
I also would like to recognize 
the hard work and diligence of the 
staff on this Committee. 

Every year this Committee goes 
through the exercise of trying to allocate 
sufficient funds for the foremost 
priorities of providing for our nation’s 
defense. Every year under the current 
funding constraints the difficulty of 
this task increases. This year is no exception. 


I would like to briefly mention some 
of the most important aspects of our 
defense addressed in this spending 
package. 

The bill provides $264.7 billion in new 
spending authority for the Department 
of Defense for FY 2000. This is $1.4 billion 
above the President’s request. This 
recommendation meets the budget authority 
and outlay limits established 
in the 302(b) allocation. 

In parallel with the Defense Authorization 
bill, the bill funds almost 1.4 
million active duty military personnel. 
This bill fully funds a 4.8-percent pay 
raise for FY2000 and includes more 
than $1.838 billion in supplemental 
spending for military pay. 

This legislation provides approximately 
$2.1 billion for overseas contingency 
operations in Southwest Asia 
and Bosnia. I and many others suspect 
we’ll be forced to pass an additional 
emergency supplemental for peacekeeping 
operations in Kosovo. As 
Chairman STEVENS has already indicated, 
it would be premature to speculate 
about those possible appropriations 
at this time. 

The bill includes appropriations totaling 
$92 billion for operation and 
maintenance (O&M). This is $626.1 million 
above the Administration’s request. 


The bill supports the establishment 
of 17 Rapid Assessment and Initial Detection 
(RAID) teams. And it provides 
$1.3 billion for combating terrorism. 
Within the funds for combating terrorism, 
the bill makes $79.6 million 
available to provide Army and Air National 
Guard full-time personnel to facilitate 
successful achievement of this 
mission. 

I fully support the decision to appropriate 
$475.5 million for Former Soviet 
Union Threat Reduction programs. 
These are important programs that address 
one of the most significant proliferation 
threats we face today. I also 
would like to voice my strong support 
for the decision that $25 million be 
used only to support Russian nuclear 
submarine dismantlement and disposal 
activities. 

I also sincerely appreciate the Committee’s 
effort to restore some of the 
funding required for research, development, 
test, and evaluation. The increase 
of $2.1 billion to the budget request 
will help prevent the loss of scientific 
and technical expertise within 
our defense infrastructure. Moreover, 
this will help ensure that the U.S. 
maintains its technological lead in its 
defense capabilities. 

The Committee also funded several 
items that will ensure that New Mexico 
based defense installations and programs 
remain robust. I would like to 
briefly highlight some of the items 
that received funding in the appropriations 
bill. 

Directed energy weapons provide the 
potential of low cost per kill ratios 
sought for our missile defense capabilities. 
In the area of directed energy, $14 
million will go for the High Energy 
Laser Test Facility at White Sands, 
the Army’s premier facility for directed 
energy programs. There is an 
additional $15 million for the Tactical 
High Energy Laser program. This joint 
program with Israel is very important 
to proving the concept of using lasers 
to achieve defenses against short and 
medium range missiles. After significant 
cuts and changes to its development 
plan last year, the Airborne 
Laser program is fully funded at $309 
million. 

The Committee added $40 million to 
the Warfighter Information Network 
program. Based at Laguna Industries, 
this program manufactures mobile 
command and control headquarters for 
a digital Army. 

An additional $7.5 million was appropriated 
for modernization of testing 
equipment at White Sands Missile 
Range. Also, $6 million will be made 
available for much needed perimeter 
fencing to prevent further accidents 
from unexploded ordnances at the 
range. 

$10 million is included for the 
Scorpius Low Cost Launch program. A 
significant portion of the research and 
development for this program is based 
at Phillips, and testing of the engines 
and the rocket itself is conducted at 
New Mexico Tech and White Sands. 
This is an important program both because 
of the implications to our national 
security that arise from exorbitant 
launch costs and due to potential 
cost savings to taxpayers by lower 
costs for getting payloads into orbit for 

U.S. defense programs. 
Several other Phillips based programs 
also received additional support, 
including: $5 million for further research 
and development on radio frequency 
weapons, $25 million for military 
spaceplane efforts, $5 million for 
advanced countermeasures using solid 
state laser technologies. 

At my and other member’s request, 
an additional $10 million of funding 
will be made available for research and 
development of new technologies to 
counter chemical and biological 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6687 

threats. $4 million in support was included 
for the blast mitigation research 
of both military and nonmilitary 
explosives at New Mexico 
Tech. 

Lastly, $10 million in additional 
funding was added for the Theater Air 
Command and Control Simulation Facility 
(TACCSF) at Kirtland Air Force 
Base. This will help a great deal in 
making this facility the world class 
training facility necessary to maintain 
combat readiness of our Air Force in 
the coming years. 

I believe this bill demonstrates the 
balance required to best fund our 
armed forces under current fiscal constraints. 
Again, I am pleased by the 
hard work of my colleagues on this 
Committee and express, once again, my 
admiration for the hard work of Chairman 
STEVENS and Senator INOUYE in 
achieving an appropriate spending 
package for our military men and 
women. 

ASSEMBLED CHEMICAL WEAPONS ASSESSMENT 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
rise today to address the issue of 
Chemical Weapons Demilitarization. I 
do so in order to point out that the Department 
of Defense has consistently 
ignored Congressional directive and intent. 


In 1996, I offered and the Senate accepted 
an amendment which directed 
the Army to identify and demonstrate 
technologies other than baseline incineration 
which could be utilized in the 
destruction of America’s chemical 
weapons stockpile. This program, 
which came to be known as the Assembled 
Chemical Weapons Assessment, or 
ACWA, enjoyed tremendous inititial 
success. Through the involvement of 
the DoD, the Army, technology providers 
and citizens advocacy groups— 
disparate interests, indeed—agreement 
was reached on how the process should 
proceed as well as the criteria for success. 
It is also critical to point out that 
one area of consensus was that the 
timely destruction of the stockpiles remained 
a top priority. Nobody involved 
in this process advocates unnecessary 
delay in efforts to comply with the 
Chemical Weapons Convention 2007 
deadline. Certainly, I never viewed my 
efforts as anything other than a safeguard 
to ensure that once the destruction 
of the stockpile located in Kentucky 
began, only the safest method 
available was utilized. 

Unfortunately, this is where the good 
news ends. 

After rigorous evaluation and discussions, 
the decision was announced that 
six separate methods met the technological 
criteria necessary in order to be 
tested as alternatives to baseline incineration. 
These six were the only proposals 
of the almost 20 originally submitted 
for consideration which were 
deemed capable of producing safer 
methods. Unfortunately the Army and 
the Department of Defense made the 
decision to move forward and evaluate 
only three of the qualified technologies, 
leaving three untested. Fur


ther, this decision was made not on the 
basis of what was technologically feasible, 
but solely on the basis on what 
was cost-efficient. Not in the interests 
of finding the safest manner available 
to destroy the weapons, but on satisfying 
the minimum requirements so 
that the incineration could continue 
regardless of the results of the testing. 

To help ease this budget difficulty, I 
offered and the Senate accepted, an 
amendment to the FY99 Department of 
Defense Appropriations Bill which gave 
the Secretary of Defense the Authority 
to reprogram up to $25 million in order 
to fully test each of the technologies 
which met the criteria for selection as 
potential alternatives to incineration. 
This provision was included in the final 
version of the Defense bill, and was 
eventually signed into law. 

Mr. President, despite this clear expression 
of Congressional intent, the 
Army, the Department and the Administration 
have consistently refused to 
allocate sufficient funds to complete 
the testing. As a result, the ACWA program 
is in danger of losing its credibility—
the very quality that led to its 
initial successes. If the testing of the 
three technologies does not produce a 
viable alternative to incineration, then 
the legitimate question will be posed, 
‘‘What about the additional proposals 
which were viewed to have merit as alternatives 
to incineration?’’ 

Not wishing to answer that question, 
I worked to encourage the administration 
to agree that further testing was 
cost effective and in the best interests 
of the country. Their responses, which 
I will submit for the RECORD, professed 
their strong support for the goals of 
the ACWA program, but claimed that 
the budget was simply too tight for the 
Department to reprogram funds for additional 
testing. 

With all due respect, that contention 
is simply false. The truth is that the 
Department of Defense and the Army 
made a decision years ago that they 
would eliminate chemical weapons 
using incineration and have resisted 
considering other options since that 
time. 

This year’s report, Senate Report 
105–53, states that ‘‘the Committee is 
concerned with the lack of oversight 
afforded the Chemical Demilitarization 
Program within the executive branch.’’ 

Further the Report states: 

In a review of the program’s funding, the 
Committee discovered that funds had systematically 
been obligated without being expended 
and in some instances funds were unobligated. 
Rather than facing a shortfall in 
funding, the program had over $200,000,000 of 
Operation and Maintenance funds unexpended 
at the end of fiscal year 1998. In light 
of the unobligated and unexpended balances 
available to the Department, the program 
growth in the budget request is not justified. 

Mr. President, this language is a 
stinging indictment of the Department’s 
mismanagement of the Chemical 
Demilitarization program. Further 
it demonstrates clearly that there is no 
truth to the assertion that there were 
not sufficient funds available to allow 

for the demonstration of all viable alternatives 
to baseline incineration. 

I intend to continue to press the 
Army to test all six technologies so 
that the citizens who live near our 
stockpiles may be assured that only 
the safest methods available are employed 
to destroy chemical weapons. 

I ask unanimous consent that the 
letters to which I referred be printed in 
the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the letters 
were ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, 

Washington, DC, December 22, 1998. 

Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL, 

U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR MCCONNELL: This responds 
to your interest in the Assembled Chemical 
Weapons Assessment (ACWA) Program. I regret 
any misunderstanding we may have had 
about responding to your concerns on this 
matter. 

As you know, Congress has directed the 
Department to demonstrate and evaluate at 
least two alternatives to baseline incineration 
for the disposal of assembled chemical 
munitions. The ACWA Program actually 
identified six technologies, exceeding the 
original requirement, but was able to fund 
only three—the three that were ranked as 
the best value to the U.S. Government. We 
would like to go further, but the entire 
amount appropriated for support of ACWA in 
the Fiscal year 1999 Defense Appropriations 
Act will be required to complete demonstration 
testing and conduct a non-government 
independent evaluation of cost and schedule 
with regard to implementing an alternative 
technology. 

The Act also provided authority to use up 
to an additional $25 million of the funds appropriated 
for the Chemical Demilitarization 
program in order to complete ACWA demonstrations. 
This language, however, addressed 
authority only; no additional funds 
were appropriated. While we will vigorously 
press for savings in the Chemical Demilitarization 
program, at this point, we are unable 
to exercise reprogramming authority 
without jeopardizing our ability to meet the 
Chemical Weapons Convention mandate of 
April 2007 for destruction of our chemical 
weapons stockpile. If, however, additional 
funding becomes available in the coming fiscal 
year to support the ACWA Program, we 
plan to expand the scope of demonstration 
testing beyond the three technologies already 
programmed. 

Successful disposal of the chemical munitions 
stockpile and compliance with the 
Chemical Weapons Convention are among 
our highest national security priorities. The 
ACWA Program is a critical component of 
this effort. I want to thank you for your support 
of this important program. Again, I regret 
any misunderstanding concerning my 
response to your interest in this matter. 

Sincerely, 

JOHN HAMRE. 

UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, 

Washington, DC, September 18, 1998. 

Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL, 

U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR MCCONNELL: This is in reply 
to your letter to Secretary Cohen regarding 
the Assembled Chemical Weapons Assessment 
(ACWA) program. In that letter you 
asked about the Department’s plans for testing 
of alternative technologies. 


S6688 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

As you may be aware, the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 
1997 mandated that we identify and demonstrate 
not less than two alternatives to 
the baseline incineration process for the demilitarization 
of assembled chemical munitions. 
In selecting three technologies to proceed 
to final demonstration testing we have 
exceeded that requirement. We recognize the 
intent of the Senate as evidenced in Sec. 8143 
of the Senate passed FY 1999 DoD Appropriation 
Bill. If additional funding becomes 
available in the coming fiscal year to support 
the ACWA program, we plan to reexamine 
the scope of demonstration testing.

A similar letter has been sent to your colleagues 
who joined you in writing to Secretary 
Cohen regarding this issue. 

Sincerely, 

WILLIAM J. LYNN. 

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 

Washington DC, March 22, 1999. 

Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL, 

U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR MCCONNELL: Thank you for 
your letter about the Assembled Chemical 
Weapons Assessment (ACWA) program. The 
President requested that I respond directly 
to your letter. The Administration shares 
your goals of safely disposing of our chemical 
weapons stockpile and has been supportive 
of your efforts to find environmentally 
sound alternatives to the baseline 
incineration system for destroying these 
chemical weapons.

As you know, the Omnibus Appropriations 
Act of 1997 created the ACWA program and 
provided $40 million ‘‘to identify and demonstrate 
not less than two alternatives to 
the baseline incineration process for the demilitarization 
of assembled chemical munitions.’’ 
In time, the ACWA program identified 
six alternatives. Due to limitations of 
funds, only three alternative technologies 
were selected for further development and 
testing, one more than required by the 1977 
Act. To fund the third alternative, funds had 
to be reprogrammed from the baseline Chemical 
Demilitarization program, which supports 
a safe and effective disposal process in 
order to fund research into an additional system 
that may or may not be selected at a future 
date for implementation. 

As you pointed out in your letter, the FY 
1999 Defense Appropriations Act provides authority 
to reprogram up to $25 million from 
the Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, 
Defense account to fund the demonstration 
of alternatives to baseline incineration. 
Unfortunately, the Act also reduced the 
President’s request for the account by $78 
million. This reduction will severely challenge 
the Army’s ability to successfully destroy 
this Nation’s chemical stockpile by 
April 29, 2007, as required by the Chemical 
Weapons Convention. As a result of the $78 
million reduction, to date we have been unable 
to identify available funds in the Chemical 
Demilitarization program to reprogram 
to ACWA for additional demonstration 
projects.

The Administration’s policy is to proceed 
as quickly as possible with the safe destruction 
of the Nation’s chemical stockpile, 
while at the same time seeking even safer 
and more effective methods. The National 
Academy of Sciences concluded in its 1994 
study that the baseline incineration system 
is a safe and effective disposal process for the 
stockpile. The Administration will continue 
to seek even safer methods. We look forward 
to working with you to that end. 

Sincerely, 

JACOB J. LEW, 

Director. 

THE GALLO RESEARCH CENTER AT THE 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN FRANCISCO 

Mrs. BOXER. Mr. President, I am 
pleased to see language in the Depart


ment of Defense Appropriations report 
which recommends $300 million for 
medical research and development efforts 
to be used for life-saving medical 
projects, including breast cancer and 
prostate cancer research. 

Of the $300 million, the Committee 
recommends that $50 million is to be 
made available for peer reviewed medical 
research grants and activities. 
Further, the Committee directs that 
the Secretary of Defense, in conjunction 
with the service of the Surgeons 
General, establish a process to select 
medical research projects of clear scientific 
merit and direct relevance to 
military health. One of the projects 
listed as having scientific merit and direct 
relevance to military health is 
that of alcohol abuse and prevention 
research. 

I believe that alcohol abuse and prevention 
efforts must be supported by 
Congress. We have all been witness to 
broken families, broken lives and lost 
opportunities attributed to alcoholism. 
To that end, I would like to share with 
my colleagues the promising research 
being conducted to combat alcoholism 
at the Gallo Center in San Francisco, 
California. 

The mission of the Gallo Center is to 
identify genes that control brain responses 
to alcohol and other addicting 
agents and then develop new drugs to 
treat addiction. It is the only alcoholism 
research program in the country 
that is based with a department of 
neurology. The Gallo Center is fully 
equipped for research in cellular, molecular, 
and behavioral neuroscience 
and also invertebrate and human genetics. 


I join my colleague, Senator FEINSTEIN, 
in her request for $11 million 
from the Medical Research activities 
budget in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations bill to support alcoholism 
research at the Gallo Center located 
at the University of California, 
San Francisco Medical School. I believe 
that the important work conducted 
at the Gallo Center qualifies 
under the medical research project directive 
as recommended by the Committee, 
and that it should be funded 
from the $50 million already made 
available for peer reviewed medical research 
grants and activities. 

The Department of Defense Health 
Program has appropriately identified 
alcoholism research as a priority area. 
I believe that providing $11 million 
from the Medical Research activities 
budget in the Department of Defense 
Appropriations bill for the Gallo Research 
Center at the University of California, 
San Francisco would prove to 
be a worthwhile investment in our efforts 
to learn more about alcoholism, 
it causes, and what we can do to fight 
it. 

Mr. LAUTENBERG. Mr. President, 
page 95 of the report accompanying S. 
1122 contains language that encourages 
the Army to include Rock Island Arsenal 
in all aspects of the development, 
design and production of the Lightweight 
155mm Towed Howitzer Program. 
This directive is problematic for 

many reasons. If followed, it would undermine 
industrial competition and 
conflict with the fair and competitive 
process that has occurred to date. It 
would preclude further competition for 
the 155mm Towed Howitzer and all future 
towed artillery programs. And the 
report language would potentially contradict 
several statutes, including the 
Army Industrial Facilities Act, the 
Working Capital Funds Act, and the 
Arsenal Act. 

The contract for this program has already 
been awarded on a competitive 
basis. Vickers Shipbuilding and Engineering 
LTD developed the original design 
and owns background intellectual 
property in the current Lightweight 
155mm system. Attempting now to direct 
the work to Rock Island would potentially 
detract from work done at 
Picatinny Arsenal in my home state of 
New Jersey, as well as potentially create 
all sorts of legal fights. While Rock 
Island should be encouraged to compete 
for a subcontract, all future 
awards should be made on a ‘‘bestvalue’’ 
basis. Any legislative micromanagement 
that compromises the 
competitive bidding process is inconsistent 
with legal and economic prudence. 
I urge such ill-advised acquisition 
guidance to be dropped when the 
Senate convenes with the House to 
conference this bill. 

MC GREGOR RANGE WITHDRAWAL 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, my 
amendment to the Defense Appropriations 
bill would renew the withdrawal 
of the McGregor Range for use by the 

U.S. Army. 
McGregor Range is one of six military 
parcels withdrawn from public domain 
in 1986. These parcels comprise 
nearly 30 percent of the Department of 
Defense’s 25 million acres. The lands 
will revert to the public domain in 2001 
unless Congress passes new legislation. 
This amendment is specific to the 
608,000 acres utilized by Fort Bliss and 
does not address any of the other renewals 
for other military installations. 
McGregor Range comprises nearly 
700,000 of Fort Bliss’s 1.12 million acres. 
The Fort Bliss garrison is adjacent to 
El Paso, Texas, but the McGregor 
Range is located entirely in New Mexico. 
Sections of McGregor are used for 
cattle grazing and other nonmilitary 
purposes such as hunting and recreation. 
The Bureau of Land Management 
manages the cattle-grazing program 
through close coordination with 
the Army. These cooperative efforts 
provide for efficient use of the lands as 
well as effective stewardship of the 
natural resources located there. 
Recent studies of this issue provides 
a succinct summary of the most relevant 
policy issues surrounding the renewal 
of withdrawal for military purposes. 
Mr. President, allow me to briefly 
list the major findings of this study: 
Fort Bliss has a critical role as a national 
center for air defense and 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6689 

McGregor Range is essential for fulfilling 
that role; 

McGregor Range is the only range in 
the United States capable of training 
America’s air and missile defense 
forces. Because all CONUS Patriot 
forces are stationed at Ft. Bliss they 
depend on McGregor for the training 
needed to ensure their full readiness 
prior to deployment. 

Successive BRAC rounds have reduced 
the capability of the DOD to support 
both current and future training 
and testing requirements with the 
available infrastructure. Range complexes 
such as McGregor and White 
Sands Missile Range are critical now 
and will become more critical in the 
future as weapons systems and doctrine 
evolve which allow greater standoff 
distances and mobility in the future. 
These capabilities are wasted if 
we fail to train our forces to the maximum 
extent of their capabilities. 

McGregor Range supports the U.S. 
Air Force in the training activities at 
Holloman Air Force Base. 

The combined space of McGregor 
Range and White Sands can be leveraged 
to accommodate the needs of a 
more modern Army. Currently, the 
range supports specialized test operations 
by White Sands Missile Range 
which require additional safety buffer 
zones to ensure public safety. 

Military training and testing requirements 
for McGregor Range are foreseen 
for at least the next 50 years based on 
weapons systems that are either currently 
fielded, such as Patriot, or are 
planned for fielding in the near future. 
Additionally, emerging doctrine and 
weapon systems part of the ArmyAfter-
Next will require large areas to 
fully train soldiers in the employment 
of these weapons systems. If the requirement 
is known for the next fifty 
years, then it is unclear why a shorter 
withdrawal period is reasonable. 

The BLM’s 1986 Wilderness Study 
made a ‘‘No Wilderness’’ recommendation 
regarding the Culp Canyon WSA. 
This recommendation was ‘‘based on 
the low-quality wilderness value of the 
WSA and the potential conflicts with 
associated military use of the area.’’ 
Without this portion of the range, the 
Army’s ability to conduct Patriot and 
related air and missile defense training 
will be reduced by approximately one-
third. 

There is strong regional support for 
this renewal. 176 public comments expressed 
support for the Army’s preferred 
alternative. An additional 26 expressed 
support for one of the other alternatives. 


The Army’s proposal will continue 
historic non-military uses of the range 
which include livestock grazing and 
hunting for 50 years. 

The Army has already met its obligations 
with respect to performing an Environmental 
Impact Statement, holding 
public hearings, and submission of 
request for renewal to the Administration. 


In sum, all of the legal requirements 
set forth by Congress have been met. 

Congressional action is now required to 
ensure that the Army retains its ability 
to test, simulate, and train for missions 
at Fort Bliss. Allowing the 
Army’s continued access to these lands 
is critical to adequate training and 
readiness now and in the future. 

One of the fundamental duties of 
Congress is the maintenance of the national 
defense. Nothing is more fundamental 
than the provision of training 
ranges, such as McGregor, in maintaining 
a trained and prepared military. 

Mr. BINGAMAN. Mr. President, I do 
not object to my colleague’s amendment 
to renew the public land withdrawal 
for the McGregor Range in New 
Mexico, however, I believe the preferable 
course of action is to follow the 
process the Senate agreed to just last 
month, and allow the Defense and Interior 
Departments the opportunity to 
jointly develop a legislative proposal. 

The McGregor Range in southern 
New Mexico was one of several military 
ranges that was last withdrawn for 
military purposes in 1986 under Public 
Law 99–606. The withdrawal period for 
McGregor and the other ranges is for 15 
years, and does not expire until November, 
2001. 

Last month, language was included 
in the Committee-reported version of 

S. 1059, the DOD Authorization bill, 
that would have extended public land 
withdrawals at four of the six military 
installations covered by Public Law 99– 
606: the Barry M. Goldwater Air Force 
Range in Arizona, the McGregor Range 
in New Mexico, and Fort Wainwright 
and Fort Greely in Alaska. During the 
consideration of the bill on the Senate 
floor, I offered an amendment which 
replaced the withdrawal language with 
a ‘‘sense of the Senate’’ statement urging 
the Administration to submit legislative 
proposals for these four military 
withdrawals by July 1. I understand 
that both the Defense and Interior Departments 
are currently working on 
such a legislative proposal and that we 
still anticipate being able to incorporate 
legislative language in the conference 
report for the DOD Authorization 
bill. 
With respect to the proposed amendment 
for the McGregor Range, I want 
to be clear that I recognize the critical 
role the range serves for our national 
defense training needs and I support 
their continued use for these purposes. 
In my opinion, however, I think it 
makes much more sense, and will result 
in less controversy in the long run, 
if we allow the normal process for the 
renewal of the public land withdrawals 
to be completed. In short, this means 
allowing the Interior Department the 
opportunity to review the Army’s environmental 
impact statement, which I 
understand has only just been completed, 
and that following that review, 
the Administration has the opportunity 
to submit its legislative proposal 
for our consideration. 

The McGregor withdrawal encompasses 
approximately 608,000 acres of 
land in New Mexico. The renewal of the 

withdrawal and future uses of the 
range are of interest not only to the 
Army, but also to area residents and 
other public land users. Although the 
amendment is not clear, I am concerned 
that it materially changes some 
of the withdrawal terms from the 1986 
Act. 

For example, the 1986 Act authorized 
a withdrawal period of 15 years. This 
amendment provides for a 50-year withdrawal. 
I understand that the military 
desires a longer withdrawal period than 
the current 15 years, and I am not opposed 
to considering a longer term. But 
meaningful periodic reviews and environmental 
analyses serve an important 
purpose. They provide local communities 
with an opportunity to raise 
issues about the way these lands are 
managed, and they allow us to consider 
new land management issues which 
may not have been present when the 
original withdrawals were made. I 
think it is a mistake to significantly 
change this policy without at least the 
opportunity for public hearings. 

Another aspect of the amendment 
that seems to be a significant departure 
from past management practices 
is a requirement that the Secretary of 
the Army manage the withdrawn lands. 
Under current law, the lands are managed 
by the Bureau of Land Management 
for a variety of multiple use purposes, 
subject to the limitations of the 
military uses. For example, the 1986 
Act authorizes the Secretary of the Interior 
to manage the lands in a manner 
permitting the continuation of grazing, 
the protection of wildlife and wildlife 
habitat, the control of predators, recreation, 
and the suppression of brush 
fires. 

This amendment now provides for 
management by the Army, under the 
terms of a new agreement to be developed 
between the Army and the Interior 
Department, which is to provide 
for the proper management and protection 
of natural and cultural resources. 
It may very well be that such an agreement 
will adequately provide for other 
non-military uses and protect sensitive 
natural and cultural resources. However, 
there is no requirement that the 
lands be managed under existing law, 
including the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act. The amendment also 
appears to leave very important land 
management questions unanswered. 
For example, the BLM currently manages 
the Culp Canyon Wilderness Study 
Area within the McGregor Range, as 
well as an ‘‘Area of Critical Environmental 
Concern.’’ Under this amendment, 
is the Army required to manage 
those areas to the same degree of protection 
as required of the Secretary of 
the Interior? Again, at the very least, I 
think it is important that all interested 
parties should be heard on these 
issues before we decide how to proceed. 

Mr. President, I would like to conclude 
by again urging the Administration 
to expeditiously complete its legislative 
proposal by the end of this 
month. Although I would prefer to hear 


S6690 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

the Administration’s proposal, I am 
committed to seeing that the 
McGregor range renewal is enacted this 
year. If, however, a timely proposal is 
submitted by the Administration, I 
hope that we will be able to include appropriate 
legislative language to renew 
the withdrawal for McGregor and the 
other affected ranges as part of the 
conference report for the DOD Authorization 
bill. 

Mr. TORRICELLI. Mr. President, I 
rise today in strong support of the FY 
2000 appropriations bill. This legislation 
demonstrates a strong commitment 
to America’s defense and to our 
ability to meet future military challenges. 
I especially thank and acknowledge 
the efforts of the distinguished 
chairman of the Appropriations Committee 
and the Defense Subcommittee, 
Senator STEVENS, the distinguished 
ranking member of the Appropriations 
Committee, Senator BYRD, and the 
ranking member of the Defense Subcommittee, 
Senator INOUYE, for their 
work and support of this legislation. 

I am particularly pleased that the 
committee included $1 million for exciting 
new technology designed to 
make landmine detection safer and 
more effective. This technology, known 
as nonlinear technique for landmine 
detection, has been developed by engineers 
at the Davidson Laboratory of 
the Stevens Institute in my home 
State of New Jersey. This new method 
for detection of mines and other buried 
man-made objects has been devised in 
such a way as to differentiate between 
rocks, other solids and actual land-
mines through acoustics. This technology 
will increase our ability to 
meet our international obligations and 
dramatically improve the safety and 
security of our armed forces. 

I also express my support for the 
committee’s inclusion of an additional 
$121 million for the production of 11 
new Black Hawk helicopters. A coalition 
of eight companies in my state 
manufacture critical components for 
the Black Hawk, which is the Army’s 
premier tactical transport helicopter. 
First produced in 1977, it is used for 
combat assault, combat re-supply, battlefield 
command and control, electronic 
warfare and medical evacuation. 
Currently, the Black Hawk is providing 
critical support functions for our 
armed services in Kosovo. This funding 
will ensure that our military has the 
ability to continue its current operations 
and sustain readiness for future 
dangers. 

I am also extremely pleased that this 
legislation represents a significant increase 
in our commitment to the Defense 
Health Program. The inclusion of 
$175 million for the breast cancer program, 
and the $75 million for the prostate 
cancer research programs, has special 
significance for the constituents I 
represent. New Jersey’s breast cancer 
incidence rate is among the highest in 
the Nation; and, more than 1,400 of the 
6,900 New Jersey men diagnosed with 
prostate cancer die each year. I am 

confident that these funding initiatives 
will bring us much closer to finding answers 
for the men and women of New 
Jersey and nationwide, who suffer from 
these devastating diseases. 

Additionally, the pay raise of almost 
5 percent for all members of the military 
included in this bill deals with serious 
concerns I have had regarding 
quality of life and morale of our soldiers. 
By addressing the inequities between 
military pay and civilian wages, 
this pay raise will go a long way toward 
reaching our goals of retaining 
highly trained personnel and assist in 
our ability to achieve recruiting goals. 

Finally, while I am supportive of 
these important components of this 
legislation, I am extremely concerned 
with the committee’s recommendation 
that the Army and the Marine Corps 
develop a plan to include the Rock Island 
Arsenal in all aspects of howitzer 
development, design, and production 
for the Lightweight 155mm. 

Currently, critical research and development 
functions for the howitzer 
take place under the U.S. Army Tank-
automotive and Armaments Command, 
Armament Research, Development and 
Engineering Center at Picatinny Arsenal, 
NJ. The howitzer, as well as other 
important military systems, require 
sophisticated software which may only 
be fielded by Picatinny Arsenal. If the 
committee’s proposal is implemented, I 
fear that Rock Island Arsenal will ultimately 
assume important research and 
development responsibilities for the 
howitzer for which they have never before 
played a role and may be unqualified 
to preform. I encourage the committee 
to strongly consider these concerns 
which have similarly been expressed 
by the Army and Marine Corps. 

Mr. President, I again thank Chairman 
STEVENS, Ranking Member BYRD, 
and Ranking Member INOUYE for their 
commitment and attention to these 
important issues. 

Mr. FEINGOLD. Mr. President, I rise 
today to voice my strong opposition to 
the fiscal year 2000 Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act. 

Mr. President, it is almost painful to 
witness the way in which this Senate is 
abdicating its responsibility to scrutinize 
the Department of Defense. During 
debate on the fiscal year 2000 DoD authorization 
bill, we had exactly two 
amendments that called a multi-billion 
dollars weapons system into question. 
On this appropriations bill, we had exactly 
two amendments worthy of extensive 
debate. Two amendments, Mr. 
President. Here we have a defense policy 
that perpetuates a Cold War mentality 
into the 21st century, and the 
Senate has no questions. 

Mr. President, on the heels of an authorization 
bill that exemplifies the 
Pentagon’s utter failure to adapt its 
priorities to the post-Cold War era, the 
American taxpayer is left holding the 
bag paying for the mess. There are a 
number of theories that attempt to explain 
the difficulties faced by the 
armed services. There is a dearth of 

thoughtful solutions. The general consensus 
is that if we pour enough money 
into the Defense Department, the problems 
will go away. Unfortunately, effective 
problem-solving doesn’t work 
that way. 

The DoD has a weapons modernization 
strategy that makes it impossible 
to buy enough new weapons to replace 
all the old weapons on a timely basis, 
even though forces are much smaller 
than they were during the Cold War 
and modernization budgets are projected 
to return to Cold War levels. 
Consequently, the ratio of old weapons 
to new weapons in our active inventories 
will grow to unprecedented levels 
over the next decade. 

Subsequently, that modernization 
strategy is driving up the operating 
budgets needed to maintain adequate 
readiness, even though the size of our 
forces is now smaller than it was during 
the Cold War. Each new generation 
of high complexity weapons costs much 
more to operate than its predecessor, 
and the low rate of replacement forces 
the longer retention and use of older 
weapons. Thus, as weapons get older, 
they become more expensive to operate, 
maintain, and supply. 

Couple this with an accounting system 
that has failed each and every 
GAO audit since enactment of the 
Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, 
and you have a poorly managed, misguided 
strategy inviting disaster. 

Instead of thoughtfully addressing 
these shortcomings, Mr. President, we 
proceed to spend the American taxpayers’ 
money as we have in the past. 
No change. We continue to promote 
bigger and more expensive weapons 
systems at the expense of our men and 
women in uniform. No matter how 
much money we throw at this problem, 
we won’t find a solution if we stay on 
this track. 

For the past year, Mr. President, 
we’ve heard the call to address our 
military’s readiness crisis from virtually 
all quarters. We were told that 
foremost among the readiness shortfalls 
were operations and maintenance 
as well as pay and allowances accounts. 

Just last year, there was a virtual 
consensus that the armed services were 
facing a readiness crisis. Last September, 
the Joint Chiefs testified that 
there was a dangerous readiness shortfall. 
General Henry Shelton, chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs, claimed that 
‘‘without relief, we will see a continuation 
of the downward trends in 
readiness . . . and shortfalls in critical 
skills.’’ Army Chief of Staff General 
Dennis Reimer stated that the military 
faces a ‘‘hollow force’’ without increased 
readiness spending. Chief of 
Naval Operations Admiral Jay Johnson 
asserted that the Navy has a $6 billion 
readiness deficit. So it went for all the 
services. 

To address the readiness shortfall, 
Mr. President, the Congress passed an 
emergency supplemental appropriations 
bill. The bill was well-intentioned 
in its support for the efforts of our men 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6691 

and women in uniform. Unfortunately, 
something happened on the way to the 
front lines. The bill spent close to $9 
billion, but just $1 billion of it went to 
address the readiness shortfall. 

We added $1 billion for ballistic missile 
defense. The Ballistic Missile Defense 
Organization still hasn’t spent all 
that money, yet we’ve added another 
$3.5 billion for the BMDO in this bill. 
Last year’s supplemental also added 
billions to what has become an expected 
emergency, that being our operations 
in Bosnia. That other unexpected 
emergency, the year 2000, received 
a billion dollars. And so it went. 
What happened to readiness? 

One provision in this bill casts a pall 
over the readiness needs of our service 
members and highlights, in microcosm, 
the Defense Department’s misguided 
priorities. This appropriations bill will 
spend upwards of $40 million in the 
next fiscal year, and perhaps as much 
as half a billion dollars over the next 
ten years on luxury jets for four-star 
generals. Am I missing something or is 
this absurd? We actually have more 
than 11,000 troops that qualify for food 
stamps and DoD can justify spending 
tens of millions of dollars next year for 
luxury jets. How can this be? 

Mr. President, one concern goes to 
the heart of the entire debate on our 
national defense. The underlying question 
is this: Why should the Pentagon 
receive billions dollars more in funding 
when it has failed utterly to manage 
its budget? Throwing good money after 
bad isn’t tolerated at other departments 
and agencies. Why is it tolerated 
with DoD? 

Defense Week reported just yesterday 
that the Navy has lost track of almost 
$1 billion worth of ammunition, arms 
and explosives. Additionally, DoD has 
yet to pass an audit. A 1998 GAO audit 
couldn’t match more than $22 billion in 
DoD expenditures with obligations; it 
could not find over $9 billion in inventory; 
and it documented millions in 
overpayments to contractors. GAO 
concluded that ‘‘no major part of DoD 
has been able to pass the test of an 
independent audit.’’ 

Mr. President, this bill also has some 
painful implications for other federal 
programs. Essentially, we are spending 
tax dollars on a wasteful and misguided 
defense strategy while domestic programs 
face steep spending cuts in the 
upcoming fiscal year. 

The bill exceeds the Pentagon’s request 
by $1.4 billion. It spends $1.4 billion 
more than the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
believe is sufficient to meet our national 
defense needs. And that additional 
money is coming out of vital domestic 
programs that were already facing 
spending cuts. 

Mr. President, I cannot vote to increase 
the defense budget by tens of 
billions of dollars, including tens of 
millions for corporate jets, while the 
budgets for veterans health care, education, 
agriculture and other programs 
are facing deep cuts. Supporting the 
Defense Department’s misguided 

spending priorities is not synonymous 

with supporting the military. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, I 
strongly support S. 1122, the Defense 
appropriations bill for FY 2000. As 
scored with adjustments, the pending 
bill provides $264.9 billion in total 
budget authority and $176.9 billion in 
new outlays for the Department of Defense 
and related activities. When adjusted 
for outlays from prior years and 
other actions, the bill totals $263.9 billion 
in BA and $254.6 billion in outlays. 

There are some major elements to 
this bill that are important for the 
Senate for review. 

The bill is consistent with the Bipartisan 
Balanced Budget Agreement and 
the discretionary spending cap. In fact, 
in both budget authority and outlays 
the bill is below the amount that the 
Congressional Budget Resolution for 
fiscal year 2000 would contemplate for 
the Defense Subcommittee’s allocation. 
This is in recognition of the fact 
that readiness items originally planned 
for fiscal year 2000 were accelerated 
into fiscal year 1999 in the 1999 Emergency 
Kosovo Supplemental, which the 
President has signed into law. 

As a result, for budget authority, this 
bill is $3.1 billion below the allocation 
originally contemplated for it; for outlays 
it is $2.2 billion below. Because of 
this situation, the allocation approved 
by the Senate Appropriations Committee 
for defense has been reduced 
and held for subsequent reallocation. 

In addition, this year the defense 
budget is once again confronted with a 
serious mismatch between the DOD/ 
OMB and the CBO estimates of the outlays 
needed to execute the programs in 
the budget request. CBO’s estimate of 
outlays was $10.5 billion higher than 
OMB and DOD’s estimate. 

Because the President’s proposed 
budget was over the discretionary cap 
by such a larch amount, compensating 
for the OMB and DOD undercount of 
outlays would require very large reductions 
in manpower, procurement, or 
readiness, or all three. Cuts like that 
are simply not acceptable, especially in 
view of the conflict in the Balkans. To 
enable this bill to be considered on a 
basis commensurate with the President’s 
request, an outlay adjustment of 
that size is included in the scoring of 
this bill. 

The chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee has assured me that this 
action reduces the 2000 outlays shortage 
to manageable dimensions and 
avoids the negative effect on readiness 
or modernization that would otherwise 
be necessary. 

I strongly support this bill, and I 
urge its adoption. I want to compliment 
the chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee on his very skillful 
handling of this important legislation 
and for his statesmanlike approach to 
some serious and troubling issues in 
this year’s defense budget. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that a Senate Budget Committee 

table displaying the budget impact of 
this bill be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the table 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

S. 1122, DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS, 2000 SPENDING 
COMPARISONS—SENATE-REPORTED BILL 
[Fiscal year 2000, in millions of dollars] 

General 
purpose Crime Mandatory 
Total 
Senate-reported bill: 
Budget authority .......................... 
Outlays ......................................... 
Senate 302(b) allocation: 
Budget authority .......................... 
Outlays ......................................... 
1999 level: 
263,722 
254,409 
263,722 
254,409 
.......... 
.......... 
.......... 
.......... 
209 
209 
209 
209 
263,931 
254,618 
263,931 
254,618 
Budget authority .......................... 
Outlays ......................................... 
President’s request: 
Budget authority .......................... 
Outlays ......................................... 
House-passed bill: 
Budget authority .......................... 
Outlays ......................................... 
SENATE-REPORTED BILL COMPARED 
250,330 .......... 197 
248,310 .......... 197 
264,896 .......... 209 
258,610 .......... 209 
............... .......... .......... 
............... .......... .......... 
250,527 
248,507 
265,105 
258,819 
............... 
............... 
TO: 
Senate 302(b) allocation: 
Budget authority .......................... 
Outlays ......................................... 
1999 level: 
............... .......... .......... 
............... .......... .......... 
............... 
............... 
Budget authority .......................... 
Outlays ......................................... 
President’s request: 
Budget authority .......................... 
Outlays ......................................... 
House-passed bill: 
Budget authority .......................... 
Outlays ......................................... 
13,392 
6,099 
(1,174) 
(4,201) 
263,722 
254,409 
.......... 12 
.......... 12 
.......... .......... 
.......... .......... 
.......... 209 
.......... 209 
13,404 
6,111 
(1,174) 
(4,201) 
263,931 
254,618 

Note.—Details may not add to totals due to rounding. Totals adjusted for 
consistency with scorekeeping conventions. 

Mr. BYRD. Mr. President, I commend 
the able managers of this bill, Senator 
STEVENS and Senator INOUYE, for producing 
a balanced and comprehensive 
bill that addresses some of the most 
pressing needs of the U.S. military. 

Together with the emergency supplemental 
spending bill that Congress 
sent to the President last month, and 
the Defense authorization bill that the 
Senate passed prior to Memorial Day, 
this Defense appropriations bill marks 
a major commitment to our men and 
women in uniform by funding a wide 
array of vital defense programs. In acting 
quickly and decisively on these 
three bills, the Senate has sent a 
strong message of support to the military, 
particularly to those forces currently 
engaged in the air war over 
Yugoslavia. That support is richly deserved. 
Once again, America’s military 
forces have demonstrated their superior 
skills and leadership in the Balkan 
conflict. We are indebted to them for 
their service and dedication to their 
country. 

This appropriations bill represents a 
strong effort on the part of the managers 
to balance the very real needs of 
the Defense Department against the 
pressing needs of other domestic programs 
in the budget. This is a tough 
year for the appropriators. We are 
working under very tight budget caps 
to meet a whole host of escalating infrastructure 
needs—both physical and 
human—in this nation. Senator STEVENS 
was able to trim slightly more 
than $3 billion from defense spending 
to allocate to other programs without 
damaging the integrity of this bill. 
Even so, it will be difficult to pass all 
13 appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 


S6692 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

2000 within the constraints of the current 
budget caps. I do not know what 
the resolution to this problem will be, 
but I commend Senator STEVENS for 
the steps he has taken so far, and I 
look forward to working with him on 
the remaining appropriations bills. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, inadvertently, 
at my request, the Senate 
adopted the Domenici amendment 
twice. I ask unanimous consent that it 
be in order to vitiate the adoption of 
amendment No. 604. It is a duplicate of 
amendment No. 577. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. The bill is ready to be 
advanced to third reading. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill 
will be read for the third time. 

The bill (S. 1122) was read the third 
time. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I once 
again thank all Members of the Senate 
for their cooperation with us in handling 
this very controversial bill. I 
thank my constant companion and 
good friend, the cochairman of our Defense 
Subcommittee. I yield to him for 
any comment he might might make before 
I ask for the vote. 

Mr. INOUYE. I think you have once 
again established a new record. 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill 
having been read the third time, the 
question is, Shall the bill pass? 

The yeas and nays have been ordered. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The assistant legislative clerk called 
the roll. 

Mr. NICKLES. I announce that the 
Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO), and 
the Senator from Arizona (Mr. 
MCCAIN), are necessarily absent. 

Mr. REID. I announce that the Senator 
from Delaware (Mr. BIDEN), is absent 
due to a death in the family. 

The result was announced—yeas 93, 
nays 4, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 158 Leg.] 

YEAS—93 
Abraham Dodd Johnson 
Akaka Domenici Kennedy 
Allard Dorgan Kerrey 
Ashcroft Durbin Kerry 
Baucus Edwards Kyl 
Bayh Enzi Landrieu 
Bennett Feinstein Lautenberg 
Bingaman Fitzgerald Leahy 
Bond Frist Levin 
Breaux Gorton Lieberman 
Brownback Graham Lincoln 
Bryan Gramm Lott 
Bunning Grams Lugar 
Burns Grassley Mack 
Byrd Gregg McConnell 
Campbell Hagel Mikulski 
Chafee Harkin Moynihan 
Cleland Hatch Murkowski 
Cochran Helms Murray 
Collins Hollings Nickles 
Conrad Hutchinson Reed 
Coverdell Hutchison Reid 
Craig Inhofe Robb 
Daschle Inouye Roberts 
DeWine Jeffords Rockefeller 

Roth Smith (NH) Thompson 
Santorum Smith (OR) Thurmond 
Sarbanes Snowe Torricelli 
Schumer Specter Voinovich 
Sessions Stevens Warner 
Shelby Thomas Wyden 

NAYS—4 

Boxer Kohl 
Feingold Wellstone 

NOT VOTING—3 

Biden Crapo McCain 

The bill (S. 1122), as amended, was 
passed. 

(The bill will be printed in a future 
edition of the RECORD.) 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I congratulate 
the bill managers. The Senator 
from Alaska and the Senator from Hawaii 
always do a magnificent job. This 
is not a world record for them, but it 
certainly is a very fine accomplishment. 
I am very pleased that we have 
passed this Department of Defense appropriations 
bill in such good order. I 
congratulate the chairman for his leadership. 


Mr. STEVENS. Once again, I thank 
all Members of the Senate and staff for 
handling this defense appropriations 
bill. There is a war going on. We 
thought it essential we act as expeditiously 
as possible. We thought it was 
necessary for us to defend the Senate’s 
position to the fullest extent possible. 
That unanimous consent request is already 
in place. 

Parliamentary inquiry: Is there anything 
else I need to do in order to handle 
it according to the prior agreement? 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Not at 
this time. 

f 


UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
AGREEMENT—S. 96 

Mr. LOTT. I ask unanimous consent 
that the cloture vote scheduled to 
occur with respect to S. 96, the Y2K liability 
bill, on Wednesday, be vitiated, 
and following the conclusion of the defense 
appropriations bill the Senate resume 
S. 96. I further ask that following 
the reporting of the bill by the clerk, 
all pending floor amendments and motions 
be withdrawn, and Senator 
MCCAIN be immediately recognized to 
modify the pending committee substitute 
with the text of S. 1138 and all 
remaining amendments in order to S. 
96 be relevant to the Y2K issue. 

Finally, I ask consent that there be 
12 first-degree amendments in order for 
each side of the aisle, with relevant 
second-degree amendments, and one 
additional first-degree amendment in 
order for each leader under the same 
terms as outlined above. 

This has been discussed with the 
Democratic leader and cleared on both 
sides of the aisle. I thank the Senator 
from Oregon, Mr. WYDEN, for his help 
on this very important issue. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. DASCHLE. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the following 
list be printed in the RECORD with re


spect to the Y2K agreement and first-
degree amendments on the Democratic 
side: 

Mr. Hollings, 3 amendments; 
Mr. Kerry (MA), 1 amendment; 
Mrs. Boxer, 1 amendment; 
Mrs. Feinstein, 1 amendment; 
Mr. Feingold, 1 amendment; 
Mr. Graham, 1 amendment; 
Mr. Leahy, 1 amendment; 
Mr. Dodd, 1 amendment; 
Mr. Edwards, 2 amendments; 
Mr. Daschle, 1 amendment. 

f 


MORNING BUSINESS 
Mr. STEVENS. I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate now proceed to a 
period of morning business with Senators 
being permitted to speak therein 
for up to 10 minutes. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT COLO


NEL JEFF SEVERS, UNITED 

STATES AIR FORCE 

Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I would 
like to recognize the professional dedication, 
vision, and public service of 
Lieutenant Colonel Jeff Severs who is 
leaving the Air Force Legislative Liaison 
Office for assignment as the program 
manager for the Wind Corrected 
Munitions Dispenser Program at Eglin 
Air Force Base, Florida. It is a privilege 
for me to recognize the many outstanding 
achievements he has provided 
for the Senate, the Air Force, and our 
great Nation. 

Lieutenant Colonel Severs has served 
our country with distinction for nearly 
14 years. After graduating from the 
University of Georgia in 1985, he embarked 
on his Air Force Career with a 
training assignment at Keesler Air 
Force Base, Mississippi. He subsequently 
completed tours of duty at 
McClellan Air Force Base, California; 
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio; 
Los Angeles Air Force Base, California; 
and back again to Wright-Patterson 
Air Force Base. In each of his Air 
Force assignments, Lieutenant Colonel 
Severs’ performance has been outstanding. 


Lieutenant Colonel Severs began his 
tour on Capitol Hill as a legislative fellow 
assigned to the office of my esteemed 
colleague from Oklahoma, Senator 
JIM INHOFE. During this assignment, 
he worked on the fiscal year 1998 
Defense authorization bill. After his assignment 
with Senator INHOFE, Lieutenant 
Colonel Severs was reassigned 
to the Air Force Office of Legislative 
Liaison in the Pentagon. 

Initially, he was responsible for acquisition 
and logistics issues and was 
responsible for preparing the Secretary 
of the Air Force and Chief of Staff of 
the Air Force for posture testimony. 
He was then selected to be the Executive 
Officer to the Director of Air 
Force Legislative Liaison followed 
shortly thereafter by his reassignment 
as Deputy Chief of the Air Force Senate 
Liaison Office. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6693 

Lieutenant Colonel Severs has earned 
the respect and trust of many of my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle. 
His professional abilities and expertise 
enabled him to foster excellent working 
relationships that have served the 
Air Force and the Senate exceptionally 
well. As a liaison officer in the Senate, 
Lieutenant Colonel Severs has provided 
members and staff with informative 
and timely support regarding Air Force 
plans, programs, and constituent casework. 
His efforts have contributed 
greatly to maintaining the best 
trained, best equipped, and best prepared 
Air Force in the world. 

Mr. President, Jeff Severs, his wife, 
Gay, and children, Hugh and Brooke, 
have made many sacrifices during his 
14-year Air Force career. He continues 
to serve with a dedication and enthusiasm 
seen only in our Nation’s best 
and brightest. He is a great credit to 
the Air Force and the country, and his 
efforts on behalf of members and staff 
of the Senate will be greatly missed. As 
he now departs for new challenges at 
Eglin Air Force Base, I call upon my 
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to 
recognize his service to the Senate and 
wish him well in his new assignment. 

THE VERY BAD DEBT BOXSCORE 
Mr. HELMS. Mr. President, at the 
close of business yesterday, Monday, 
June 7, 1999, the federal debt stood at 
$5,606,738,885,838.87 (Five trillion, six 
hundred six billion, seven hundred thirty-
eight million, eight hundred eighty-
five thousand, eight hundred thirty-
eight dollars and eighty-seven cents). 
Five years ago, June 7, 1994, the federal 
debt stood at $4,606,572,000,000 
(Four trillion, six hundred six billion, 
five hundred seventy-two million). 
Ten years ago, June 7, 1989, the federal 
debt stood at $2,795,983,000,000 (Two 
trillion, seven hundred ninety-five billion, 
nine hundred eighty-three million). 
Fifteen years ago, June 7, 1984, the 
federal debt stood at $1,519,266,000,000 
(One trillion, five hundred nineteen billion, 
two hundred sixty-six million). 
Twenty-five years ago, June 7, 1974, 
the federal debt stood at $471,794,000,000 
(Four hundred seventy-one billion, 
seven hundred ninety-four million) 
which reflects a debt increase of more 
than $5 trillion—$5,134,944,885,838.87 
(Five trillion, one hundred thirty-four 
billion, nine hundred forty-four million, 
eight hundred eighty-five thousand, 
eight hundred thirty-eight dollars 
and eighty-seven cents) during the 
past 25 years. 

S. 744 

Mr. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, 
today I rise to speak briefly on a bill 
reported out of the Senate Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources on 
May 19, 1999. S. 744 provides for the 
continuation of higher education 
through the conveyance of certain 
lands in the State of Alaska to the University 
of Alaska, and for other purposes. 


The purpose of S. 744 is to provide 
Alaska’s federal land grant college, the 
University of Alaska, with a federal 
land grant of at least 250,000 acres. S. 
744 would also transfer to the federal 
government 29 inholdings currently 
owned by the University within conservation 
system units in Alaska. 

When this bill was passed out of Committee 
it was done so with an amendment 
that clarified the lands the University 
was to relinquish under Section 
3 of the bill. Those lands are listed in a 
document entitled ‘‘The University of 
Alaska’s Inholding and Reconveyance 
Document’’ and dated May 17, 1999. 

I ask unanimous consent a copy of 
this document be printed in today’s 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

THE UNIVERSITY OF ALASKA’S INHOLDING RECONVEYANCE DOCUMENT, MAY 17, 1999 

Region Area UA ID Number Booked value Acres Federal land type 

South Central ............................................................................. Alaska Peninsula ................... AP.IH.001 ............................... $15,000 ................................. 8 AK Peninsula & Maritime National Wildlife Refuge. 
South Central ............................................................................. Alaska Peninsula ................... AP.UL.001 .............................. 36,000 ................................... 360 AK Peninsula & Maritime National Wildlife Refuge. 
South Central ............................................................................. Alaska Peninsula ................... AP.UL.002 .............................. 16,000 ................................... 8 AK Peninsula & Maritime National Wildlife Refuge. 
South Central ............................................................................. Alaska Peninsula ................... AP.WB.001 ............................. 373,200 ................................. 622 AK Peninsula & Maritime National Wildlife Refuge. 
South Central ............................................................................. Alaska Peninsula ................... AP.WB.002 ............................. 5,600 ..................................... 56 AK Peninsula & Maritime National Wildlife Refuge. 
South Central ............................................................................. Nuka Island ........................... HM.NK.001 ............................. 76,500 ................................... 23 Kenai Fjords National Park. 
South Central ............................................................................. Nuka Island ........................... HM.NK.002 ............................. 150,000 ................................. 24 Kenai Fjords National Park. 
Southeast ................................................................................... Brady Glacier ........................ JU.BG.0001 ............................ 15,000,000 ............................ 400 Glacier Bay National Park. 
South Central ............................................................................. Jack Bay ................................ GU.JB.0001 ............................ 600,000 ................................. 942 Chugach National Forest. 
Southeast ................................................................................... Cape Bingham ...................... JU.CB.0001 ............................ 1,650,000 .............................. 835 Tongass National Forest. 
South Central ............................................................................. Copper Basin ........................ CB.CC.001 ............................. 36,400 ................................... 108 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Blackburn Subd ..................... WR.BB.001 ............................. 25,000 ................................... 5 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Blackburn Subd ..................... WR.BB.002 ............................. 85,000 ................................... 17 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Blackburn Subd ..................... WR.BB.003 ............................. 10,000 ................................... 2 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Blackburn Subd ..................... WR.BB.004 ............................. 170,000 ................................. 34 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. McCarthy Creek Subdivison .. WR.MC.001–094 .................... 2,015,775 .............................. 867 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. McCarthy ............................... WR.MY.003 ............................ 614,466 ................................. 1,058 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. McCarthy ............................... WR.MY.004 ............................ 192,000 ................................. 320 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. McCarthy ............................... WR.MY.005 ............................ 1,344,000 .............................. 2,240 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. McCarthy ............................... WR.MY.006 ............................ 384,000 ................................. 640 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. McCarthy ............................... WR.MY.007 ............................ 240,000 ................................. 400 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. McCarthy ............................... WR.MY.008 ............................ 223,200 ................................. 372 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. McCarthy ............................... WR.MY.009 ............................ 240,000 ................................. 400 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Strelna ................................... WR.SN.001 ............................. 240,000 ................................. 400 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Strelna ................................... WR.SN.002 ............................. 871,200 ................................. 1,452 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Strelna ................................... WR.SN.004 ............................. 254,400 ................................. 424 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Wrangell Glaciers .................. WR.WG.001 ............................ 800 ........................................ 20 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Wrangell Glaciers .................. WR.WG.002 ............................ 5,439 ..................................... 136 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Wrangell Glaciers .................. WR.WG.003 ............................ 100 ........................................ 103 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Wrangell Glaciers .................. WR.WG.004 ............................ 100 ........................................ 82 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 
South Central ............................................................................. Orange Hill ............................ WR.OII.001 ............................. 225,000 ................................. 1,600 Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve. 

Totals ..................................... 25,189,130 ............................ 13,552 

SUMMARY 

Federal conservation system unit Values Acres 
AK Peninsula & Maritime National Wildlife Refuge 
.................................................................... 
Chugach National Forest ...................................... 
Glacier Bay National Park .................................... 
Kenai Fjords National Park ................................... 
Tongass National Forest ....................................... 
Wrangell St. Elias National Park & Perserve ....... 
Total ......................................................... 
$445,800 
600,000 
15,000,000 
226,500 
1,690,000 
7,226,880 
25,189,189 
1,054 
942 
400 
47 
835 
10,680 
13,958 

f 


WOMEN’S HEALTH 

Mr. CAMPBELL. Mr. President, I 
take this opportunity today to call my 
colleagues’ attention to the importance 
of women’s health care issues. I 

came to know the importance of women’s 
health early in life. Some of you 
may know that my mother suffered 
from tuberculosis. Back in those days, 
patients with TB had to be isolated, so 
my mother was living in a sanatorium. 
I could not see her in person, only 
through the windows. 

In the past, women’s health did not 
receive the attention it deserves. I believe 
it is time to change that. If we 
are to eliminate the diseases that especially 
afflict women today, we will 
need real dedication to the task of developing 
new treatments and prevention 
techniques. 

And because women make many of 
the health care decisions for families, 
their decisions touch the health of 
many people—children, spouses, elderly 
parents and relatives. In this great 
country of ours, where we emphasize 
personal responsibility, good health 
care decisions are fundamental to quality 
health. 

As medical science advances into new 
territory, expanded choices will give 
women unprecedented opportunities to 
live better and longer lives, and to affect 
the quality of health care in our 
country. Women will be called upon to 
take charge of their own health as well 


S6694 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

as to demand medical excellence for 
their families. Only with the help of 
such informed decision makers will we 
be able to develop policies which assure 
all Americans access to affordable, 
quality health care. 

In an effort to highlight women’s 
health care and to make women aware 
of the health care choices that are 
available to them, I recently co-hosted 
a forum, Health Care: What Every 
Woman Should Know, with our former 
colleague in the Senate, Hank Brown, 
now President of the University of 
Northern Colorado. The conference featured 
a number of panelists who discussed 
the latest research and treatment 
of various kinds of cancer as well 
as depression and eating disorders. 
Legislative initiatives and solutions 
were also part of the forum agenda. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that a copy of the forum agenda 
and an article from the Greeley Tribune 
newspaper highlighting remarks of 
the keynote speaker Assistant Surgeon 
General Susan Blumenthal be printed 
in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

HEALTH CARE: WHAT EVERY WOMAN SHOULD 
KNOW 

Sponsored by Senator Ben Nighthorse Camp


bell and the University of Northern Colo


rado) 

U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, June 3, 1999. 

DEAR FRIENDS: Thank you for attending today’s 
forum, Health Care: What Every 
Woman Should Know. I am honored to co-
host this event with the University of Northern 
Colorado, and I hope today’s forum provides 
you with knowledge to ensure a 
healthier life for you and your families. 

I have always worked to ensure access to 
affordable, high quality health care. Women’s 
health has historically received little 
attention and it is time that we correct that. 
Because women are the primary care givers 
and make most of the health care decisions 
for families, it is important to make women 
aware of the advances that are taking place 
in the areas of research, detection, treatment 
and prevention. 

Personal health choices are fundamental 
to quality health care. Today’s forum will 
highlight approaches that can lead to early 
intervention, less invasive and less expensive 
treatment and cost-saving strategies. 

I sincerely hope you will use what you 
learn today to make positive health care 
choices. 

Sincerely, 

BEN NIGHTHORSE CAMPBELL, 

U.S. Senator. 
AGENDA 

8:30 a.m.—Registration Confirmation: Coffee, 
fruit, bagels. 
9:00 a.m.—Welcome: UNC President Hank 
Brown and Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell. 
9:15 a.m.—Panel I: Confronting the ‘‘C’’ 
Word—Moderator: Kim Christiansen, Channel 
9 News Anchor. 
Saving Your Skin: Skin Cancer—Jim Martin, 
PhD, GNP; 
The Capricious Cancer: Breast Cancer—Alison 
Merrill, RN, MS; 
The Silent Cancer: Ovarian Cancer—Susan 
Carter, MD; 
Survival and Beyond: Cancer Rehabilitation—
Susan Carter, MD. 

10:20 a.m.—Break. 
10:35 a.m.—Panel II: Mind and Body Connections—
Moderator: Adele Arakawa, Channel 
9 News Anchor— 
Your Mind and Moods: Dealing with Depression—
Maria deMontigny Korb, RN, PhD; 
The Fear of Being Fat: Eating Disorders— 
Judy Stauter Huse, RD, MS; 
How to Change with the Change of Life— 
Meredith Mayer, RN, MS, FNP. 

11:35 a.m.—Getting the Best Care: How You 
Can Be An Advocate (Legislative Initiatives 
and Solutions)—Raissa Geary, MA, Professional 
Staff, U.S. Senate Health, Education, 
Labor and Pensions Committee. 
Noon—Lunch: Guest Speaker: Susan 
Blumenthal, MD, MPA, Assistant Surgeon 
General—‘‘Critical Public Health Issues for 
Women in the 21st Century’’. 

1:00 p.m.—Closing Remarks: Senator Ben 
Nighthorse Campbell. 
UNIVERSITY OF NORTHERN COLORADO, 

Greeley, CO, June 1999. 

GREETINGS: It is my pleasure to extend 
warm greetings and welcome you to this 
forum on Health Care: What Every Woman 
Should Know. The University is proud to cosponsor 
this event with Senator Ben 
Nighthorse Campbell and the College of 
Health and Human Sciences. The College is 
dedicated to improving the human condition 
through its educational programs and fosters 
a desire of ‘‘giving back’’ to the community. 

This is a special occasion for the University 
of Northern Colorado and a sign of our 
commitment to be an educational partner 
with other community. I would like to acknowledge 
the North Colorado Medical Center, 
Inc. and the Western Plains Health Network 
who serve as partners in this important 
forum. We hope to expand our partnerships 
with other institutions and communities to 
truly reflect our University mission in 
teaching, research, and service throughout 
the State of Colorado. 

The forum is designed to help you: recognize 
the warning signs and be aware of factors 
that affect your well-being; take responsibility 
for making wise decisions about your 
treatment and recovery; and, how to be an 
active, well-informed partner in health care. 
Your attitude, knowledge and involvement 
in the health care partnership can influence 
the progress of treatment and rehabilitation. 
This forum can help you make a difference. 

We hope you will find this forum a fine resource 
for the knowledge necessary to dispel 
old myths, quiet new anxieties, and provide 
information that all women need about their 
health care. 

Sincerely, 

HANK BROWN, 

President. 

MODERATORS 

Adele Arakawa is an anchor for Channel 9 
News, the Gannett-owned NBC affiliate. She 
attended Tennessee Tech University and the 
University of Tennessee and has been in 
broadcasting since the age of 16. She won 
best-anchor in 1997 for coverage of the Oklahoma 
City Bombing Trial and has received a 
total of 7 Emmy nominations. 

Kim Christiansen is an anchor and reporter 
for Channel 9 News, the Gannett-owned NBC 
affiliate. She received a degree in Journalism 
from the University of Colorado in 
Boulder. Kim is devoted to the fight against 
breast cancer and serves as the spokesperson 
for the Buddy Check 9 program at 9 News, 
which was nominated for a national community 
service Emmy Award. She received 
three heartland region Emmy awards for 
news writing and outstanding general news. 

SPEAKERS 

Susan J. Blumenthal, MD, MPA is a national 
expert in women’s health and mental 
illness. Dr. Blumenthal serves as U.S. Assist


ant Surgeon General, Rear Admiral, and 
Senior Science Advisor in the Department of 
Health and Human Services. She is also a 
Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at Georgetown 
School of Medicine and Tufts University 
Medical Center. For 12 years prior to her 
appointment as Assistant Surgeon General, 
she directed major national research programs 
at the National Institutes of Health. 
Dr. Blumenthal writes a monthly health column 
for Elle magazine. 

Raissa Geary is a professional staff member 
for the U.S. Senate Health, Education, 
Labor and Pensions Committee. She received 
a BA from the University of Connecticut and 
holds a Master’s Degree in Comparative Politics 
from American University. Ms. Geary 
develops and drafts health legislation and 
agency directives and advises the committee 
on all health issues. Her work during the 
106th Congress includes Managed Care Reform 
and Medical Records Confidentiality. 

PANELISTS 
Susan Carter is a gynecologic surgeon, specializing 
in women’s health issues. She received 
a BA from the University of Texas, 
Austin and an MD from the University of 
Texas Medical Branch in Galveston. Dr. 
Carter is Director of the Regional Breast 
Center of North Colorado and Medical Director 
of the Rocky Mountain Cancer Rehabilitation 
Institute. 
Jan Martin has worked with the University 
of Northern Colorado School of Nursing for 
over 14 years. She received a BS in nursing 
from Northwestern Louisiana University; an 
MS in nursing and GNP from the University 
of Colorado Health Sciences Center; and a 
PhD in Higher Education Administration 
from the University of Denver. 
Alison S. Merrill teaches nursing at the 
University of Northern Colorado and is a 
Clinical Nurse Specialist in Oncology. She 
received a BS in Nursing from the University 
of Rhode Island and an MS in Nursing from 
the University of Michigan. 
Meredith Mayer is a nurse practitioner and 
faculty member at the North Colorado Family 
Medicine Residency Training program in 
Greeley, CO. She received a BS in psychology 
at the University of Colorado in Boulder and 
an MS in Nursing at Pace University in 
Briarcliff Manor, NY. 
Judy Stauter Huse is a Health Education 
and Nutrition Consultant, specializing in 
wellness and eating disorders. She received 
her BS and MS from Iowa State University 
and has taught nutrition at the North Colorado 
Medical center and the University of 
Northern Colorado. 
Maria deMontigny Korb is on faculty at 
the University of Northern Colorado Department 
of Nursing. She studied for a Master’s 
Degree and PhD in Transcultural Nursing at 
the University of Utah and has worked and 
taught in the clinical area of psychiatric 
nursing. 

WOMEN’S HEALTH GETS MORE ATTENTION— 

ASSISTANT SURGEON GENERAL SPEAKS ON 

ADVANCES 

(By Adam Silverman) 
Although mammograms are responsible for 
saving the lives of thousands of women every 
year, the technology is 40 years old and still 
misses crucial early warning signs of breast 
cancer. 
That was the challenge facing Susan 
Blumenthal, assistant surgeon general of the 
United States. Rather than waiting for new 
technology to be developed, she called the 
CIA. Together with NASA and the CIA, 
Blumenthal used spy-satellite technology to 
improve the success of mammograms. 
‘‘Some of the same imaging technology 
used to find tanks camouflaged behind trees 
can now be used to find cancer cells,’’ she 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6695 

said. Blumenthal was in Greeley on Thursday 
to deliver the keynote address at a conference 
about women’s health. 

The conference, held at the University of 
Northern Colorado, featured a variety of 
panelists who discussed everything from anorexia 
to breast cancer to political action. 

Blumenthal delivered a ‘‘report card’’ on 
women’s health in the country today: The 
biggest problem facing women isn’t any one 
disease, but instead is a lack of focus on 
women’s health. 

‘‘We must address these issues if we want 
to safeguard women’s health,’’ she said. 

The problem stems from the fact that 
women’s health issues also are political 
issues, said Raissa Geary, a member of the 

U.S. Senate’s Health, Education, Labor and 
Pensions Committee. 
‘‘This is more politically charged than almost 
anything we do,’’ she said. ‘‘We’re 
treated as a political issue when it comes to 
health care. We have wonderful, pure approaches 
to women’s health care policy, but 
it’s not in a vacuum.’’ 

Although women’s health is not being discussed 
as often as most women would like, 
awareness of health problems facing women 
has increased in the past century, 
Blumenthal said. 

For many years, serious health problems 
such as heart disease and lung cancer were 
thought only to occur in men. But through 
increasing research in women’s health 
issues, Blumenthal said, concerns such as 
these are being discussed. 

Also, it’s important to include women and 
minorities in all research projects relating 
to health issues that affect women as well as 
men, Blumenthal said. Programs that don’t 
include women will lose their federal funding. 


Marianne Dinges attended the conference 
Thursday and said the experience was valuable. 
She said she was impressed with the 
quality of the speakers and the topics they 
were scheduled to discuss. 

‘‘It appeared we were going to see a full 
gamut of issues and their political relevance,’’ 
she said. ‘‘A lot of us are involved 
in women’s issues and hear a lot about this, 
but we all got new information.’’ 

The conference was sponsored by UNC and 

U.S. Sen. Ben Nighthorse Campbell, R-Colo. 
Campbell said his staff pitched the idea to 
UNC after receiving many calls from women 
about health issues. 
‘‘It came from the community activists 
who wanted me to do it,’’ he said. 

The issues addressed at the conference 
need to be at the forefront of public debate, 
Campbell said. 

He said he will take the information back 
to Washington, D.C., and enter it into the 
Congressional Record. He also wants to start 
a series of forums like the one Thursday to 
further address the issues. 

‘‘We just touched the surface of women’s 
health,’’ he said. ‘‘The time to endure is 
passed. It’s time to fight back.’’ 

HEALTHY LIVING 

Susan Blumenthal, assistant U.S. surgeon 
general, gave these tips for healthy lives: 

Find a doctor who respects you. 

Know your family health history; many 
diseases are genetic and run in families. 

If you smoke, stop. If you don’t, never do. 
It’s the No. 1 preventable cause of health 
problems among women. 

Exercise or do some other sort of physical 
activity at least 30 minutes every day. This 
could be as simple as riding a bike or walking 
up stairs rather than using the elevator. 

Eat smart. 

Get annual physical exams, and make sure 
to include routine women’s health tests such 
as pap smears. 

Know your health care plan and make sure 
to read the fine print. 

Mr. CAMPBELL. Mr. President, information 
we received at the forum 
will be helpful in my work on the Appropriations 
Committee as we consider 
funding priorities in the women’s 
health area. 

I thank the Chair and yield the floor. 

f 


MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 

Messages from the President of the 
United States were communicated to 
the Senate by Mr. Williams, one of his 
secretaries. 

EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED 

As in executive session the Presiding 
Officer laid before the Senate messages 
from the President of the United 
States submitting sundry nominations 
which were referred to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


(The nominations received today are 
printed at the end of the Senate proceedings.) 


f 


MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE 

At 4:00 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House has passed the following 
bills, in which it requests the 
concurrence of the Senate: 

H.R. 1259. An act to amend the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 to protect Social 
Security surpluses through strengthened 
budgetary enforcement mechanisms. 
H.R. 1915. An act to provide grants to the 
States to improve the reporting of unidentified 
and missing persons. 
The message also announced that the 
House agrees to the amendment of the 
Senate to the bill (H.R. 435) to make 
miscellaneous and technical changes to 
various trade laws, and for other purposes. 


The message further announced that 
pursuant to section 334(b)(1) of Public 
Law 105–220 and the order of the House 
of Thursday, May 27, 1999, and upon the 
recommendation of the Minority Leader, 
the Speaker appoints the following 
member on the part of the House to the 
Twenty-First Century Workforce Commission: 
Mr. David L. Stewart of St. 
Louis, Missouri. 

The message also announced that 
pursuant to the provisions of 22 U.S.C. 
276d, the Speaker appoints the following 
Members of the House to the 
Canada-United States Interparliamentary 
Group, in addition to Mr. HOUGHTON 
of New York, Chairman, appointed 
on February 11, 1999: Mr. GILMAN of 
New York, Vice Chairman, Mr. OBERSTAR 
of Minnesota, Mr. SHAW of Florida, 
Mr. LIPINSKI of Illinois, Ms. 
SLAUGHTER of New York, Mr. UPTON of 
Michigan, Mr. STEARNS of Florida, Mr. 
PETERSON of Minnesota, Ms. DANNER of 
Missouri, Mr. MANZULLO of Illinois, and 
Mr. ENGLISH of Pennsylvania. 

MEASURE REFERRED 

The following bill was read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent 
and referred as indicated: 

H.R. 1915. An act to provide grants to the 
States to improve the reporting of unidentified 
and missing persons; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
f 


EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
which were referred as indicated: 


EC–3384. A communication from the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled 
‘‘Eliminating Racial and Ethnic Disparities 
in Health’’; to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3385. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Amendment of Class E Airspace; Thomson, 
GA: Docket No. 99–ASO–45–17 (5–17)’’ 
(RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0176), received May 17, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3386. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Standard Instrument Approach Procedures; 
Miscellaneous Amendments (22), Amdt. No. 
1931/5–21 (5–24)’’ (RIN2120–AA65) (1999–0026), 
received May 24, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3387. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Standard Instrument Approach Procedures; 
Miscellaneous Amendments (65), Amdt. No. 
1930/5–21 (5–24)’’ (RIN2120–AA65) (1999–0025), 
received May 24, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3388. A communication from the Special 
Assistant to the Chief, Mass Media Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘1998 Biennial Regulatory Review-
Streamlining of Radio Technical Rules 
in Parts 73 and 74 of the Commission’s Rules-
First Report and Order’’ [MM Docket No. 98– 
93), (RIN3060–AG81), (FCC 99–55), received 
May 12, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3389. A communication from the Special 
Assistant to the Chief, Mass Media Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Amendment of Section 
73.202(b), Table of Allotments, FM Broadcast 
Stations. [Meyersdale, Pennsylvania; 
Richwood, West Virginia; Newell, Iowa; Superior, 
Wyoming; LaCenter, Kentucky; 
Lovell, Wyoming; Royal City, Washington)’’ 
[MM Docket Nos. 98–28; 98–33, 98–71; 98–109; 
98–114; 98–116; 98–150), received May 12, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation 

EC–3390. A communication from the Special 
Assistant to the Chief, Mass Media Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Memorandum Opinion and 
Order—Implementation of Section 309(j) of 
the Communications Act’’ [MM Docket No. 


S6696 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

97–234, CG Docket No. 92–52 and Gen Docket 
No. 90–264), received May 13, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation 

EC–3391. A communication from the Special 
Assistant to the Chief, Mass Media Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Amendment of Section 
72.202(b), Table of Allotments, FM Broadcast 
Stations (East Brewton, Alabama and 
Navarre, Florida)’’ [MM Docket No. 97–233, 
received May 13, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation 

EC–3392. A communication from the Special 
Assistant to the Chief, Mass Media Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Amendment of Section 
72.202(b), Table of Allotments, FM Broadcast 
Stations (Ely and Carlin, NV)’’ [MM Docket 
No. 98–185), received May 13, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation 

EC–3393. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Rules of Practice, Procedure, 
and Evidence for Administrative Proceedings 
of the Coast Guard (USCG–1998– 
3472)’’ (RIN2115–AF59), received May 24, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–3394. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, TX (CGD–08–99– 
034)’’ (RIN2115–AE479)(1999–0011), received 
May 17, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3395. A communication from the Senior 
Regulations Analyst, U.S. Coast Guard, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Regatta Regulations; SLR: Cape Fear 
River, Wilmington, North Carolina (CGD–05– 
98–106)’’ (RIN2115–AE46)(1999–0010), received 
April 19, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3396. A communication from the Attorney, 
Office of the Chief Counsel, Federal 
Aviation Administration, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Alternative 
Means of Compliance for the Pilot-In-
Command; Night Takeoff and Landing; Recent 
Flight Experience Requirements; Final 
Rule’’ (RIN2120–AG77), received May 3, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–3397. A communication from the Attorney, 
Research and Special Programs Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Hazardous Materials: Revision 
to Regulations Governing Transportation 
and Unloading of Liquified Compressed 
Gas Service’’ (RIN2137–AD07), received 
May 24, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3398. A communication from the Deputy 
Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, 
National Marine Fisheries Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Regulations Governing the Taking of Marine 
Mammals by Alaskan Natives; Marking 
and Reporting of Beluga Whales Harvested in 
Cook Inlet’’ (RIN0648–AM57), received May 
24, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3399. A communication from the Assistant 
Administrator for Weather Service, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra


tion, Department of Commerce, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘American Meteorological Society’s 
Industry/Government Scholarship and Fellowship 
Program’’ (RIN0648–ZA61), received 
May 14, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3400. A communication from the Deputy 
Director, National Institute of Standards 
and Technology, Department of Commerce, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Notice of Availability 
of Funds for Cooperative Agreements 
to Provide Fellowships for Undergraduate, 
Graduate, and Post-Graduate Students’’ 
(RIN0693–ZA29), received May 12, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3401. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, National 
Marine Fisheries Service, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Closure of the 
Gulf of Alaska to Directed Fishing for 
Groundfish by Vessels Using Hook-and-Line 
Gear’’, received May 19, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3402. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, National 
Marine Fisheries Service, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fisheries of the 
Northeastern United States—Announcement 
That the 1999 Summer Flounder Commercial 
Quota Has Been Harvested for Maine’’, received 
April 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3403. A communication from the Chairman, 
Federal Maritime Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Licensing, Financial Responsibility 
Requirements, and General Duties for 
Ocean Transportation Intermediaries’’ 
(Docket No. 98–28), received April 29, 1999; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3404. A communication from the Chairman, 
Federal Maritime Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Carrier Automated Tariff Systems’’ 
(FMC Docket No. 98–29), received 
April 30, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3405. A communication from the Legal 
Advisor, Cable Services Bureau, Federal 
Communications Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Order on Reconsideration: In the Matter of 
Section 304 of the Telecommunications Act 
of 1996; Commercial Availability of Navigational 
Devices’’ (CS Docket No. 97–80; FCC 
99–95), received May 20, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3406. A communication from the Program 
Support Analyst, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Airworthiness Directives; S.N. CENTAIR 
101 Series Gliders; Docket No. 98–CE–50–AD’’ 
(RIN2120–AA64), received May 3, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3407. A communication from the Program 
Support Analyst, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Airworthiness Directives; Request for Comments: 
Eurocopter France Model SA341G and 
SA342J Helicopters; Docket No. 99 SW 03– 
AD’’ (RIN2120–AA64), received May 17, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–3408. A communication from the Chairman, 
United States International Trade 

Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of the Office of Inspector General 
for the period October 1, 1998 through March 

31. 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 
EC–3409. A communication from the Administrator, 
U.S. Small Business Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
annual report for fiscal year 1998; to the 
Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–3410. A communication from the Acting 
Director, United States Information Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
the Office of Inspector General for the period 
October 1, 1998 through March 31, 1999; to the 
Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–3411. A communication from the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the HHS section of 
the Office of Inspector General’s semiannual 
report for the period October 1, 1998 through 
March 31, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3412. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Government Ethics, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Amendments to the Office of Government 
Ethics Freedom of Information Act 
Regulations’’ (RIN3209–AA22), received May 
20, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3413. A communication from the Director, 
Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the actuarial reports on the Judicial Officers’ 
Retirement Fund, the Judicial Survivors’ 
Annuities System, and the Court of 
Federal Claims Judges’ Retirement System 
for the plan year ending September 30, 1996; 
to the Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–3414. A communication from the Auditor 
of the District of Columbia, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled 
‘‘Audit of Advisory Neighborhood Commission 
5A for the Period October 1, 1995 
through September 30, 1998’’; to the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–3415. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a certification of a proposed 
Manufacturing and Technical Assistance 
Agreement for the Netherlands and 
Germany; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3416. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to the employment of 
Americans by the United Nations during calendar 
year 1998; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3417. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a certification of a proposed 
manufacturing license for the United 
Kingdom; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3418. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting, the report of 
a retirement; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–3419. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the Reserve Forces Policy Board annual 
report for fiscal year 1998; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–3420. A communication from the Alternate 
OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, 
Department of Defense, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Implementation 
of Wildfire Suppression Aircraft 
Transfer Act of 1996 (Public Law 104– 
307)’’ (RIN0790–AG68), received May 18, 1999; 
to the Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–3421. A communication from the Director, 
Defense Procurement, Department of 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6697 

Defense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Work Stoppage Report’’ 
(DFARS Case 99–D003), received May 
27, 1999; to the Committee on Armed Services. 


EC–3422. A communication from the Director, 
Defense Procurement, Department of 
Defense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Contracts Crossing 
Fiscal Years’’ (DFARS Case 99–D008), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–3423. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Bureau of Export Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Entity List: Addition of Entities Located 
in the People’s Republic of China; and 
Correction to Spelling of One Indian Entity 
Name’’ (RIN0694–AB60), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3424. A communication from the Legislative 
and Regulatory Activities Division, 
Comptroller of the Currency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Organization and Functions, Availability 
and Release of Information, Contracting 
Outreach Program’’, received May 27, 1999; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–3425. A communication from the Secretary, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Exemption of the Securities 
of the Kingdom of Sweden under the 
Securities Act of 1934 for Purposes of Trading 
Futures Contracts on Those Securities’’ 
(RIN3235–AH68), received May 27, 1999; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–3426. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Changes in 
Flood Elevation Determinations, 64 FR 26692, 
05/17/99’’, received May 26, 1999; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–3427. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Changes in 
Flood Elevation Determinations, 64 FR 26694, 
05/17/99’’, received May 26, 1999; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–3428. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Changes in 
Flood Elevation Determinations, 64 FR 26690, 
05/17/99 (FEMA Doc. #7284)’’, received May 26, 
1999; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3429. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Thrift Supervision, Department 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the annual Consumer Report for calendar 
year 1998; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3430. A communication from the Under 
Secretary, Rural Development, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Community 
Programs Guaranteed Loans’’ (RIN0575– 
AC17), received May 27, 1999; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–3431. A communication from the Congressional 
Review Coordinator, Regulatory 
Analysis and Development, Policy and Program 
Development, Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Asian Longhorned 
Beetle; Addition to Quarantined Areas’’ 
(APHIS Docket No. 99–033–1), received May 

27, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–3432. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Rev. Rul. 99–26, BLS–LIFO Department 
Store Indexes-April 1999’’ (Rev. Rul. 99–26), 
received May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–3433. A communication from the Secretary 
of Labor, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report entitled the ‘‘Self-Employment 
Assistance Program’’; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–3434. A communication from the Register 
of Copyrights, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report entitled ‘‘Copyright and Digital 
Distance Education’’; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 

EC–3435. A communication from the Commissioner, 
Bureau of Reclamation, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to the Willow Creek 
Dam, Sun River Project, Montana; to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–3436. A communication from the Secretary 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report entitled ‘‘Federal Government 
Energy Management and Conservation Programs’’ 
for fiscal year 1996; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–3437. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory 
Law, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable 
Energy, Department of Energy, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Alternative Fuel Transportation 
Program’’ (RIN1904–AA99) (10CFR Part 490), 
received May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–3438. A communication from the Executive 
Director, Advisory Council on Historic 
Preservation, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Protection of 
Historic Properties (36 CFR Part 800)’’ 
(RIN3010–AA04), received May 26, 1999; to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–3439. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Admimistration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: 
Polymers’’ (98F–0730), received May 27, 1999; 
to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3440. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Admimistration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: 
Polymers’’ (98F–0368), received May 27, 1999; 
to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3441. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Admimistration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: 
Polymers’’, received May 27, 1999; to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–3442. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: Adjuvants, 
Production Aids, and Sanitizers’’, 
received May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3443. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 

Staff, Food and Drug Admimistration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Conforming Regulations Regarding 
Removal of Section 507 of the Federal 
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; Confirmation 
of Effective Date’’, received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3444. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Regulations for in Vivo 
Radiopharmaceuticals Used for Diagnosis 
and Monitoring’’ (RIN0910–AB52), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3445. A communication from the Secretary 
of Education and the Secretary of 
Labor, transmitting, pursuant to law, two 
reports entitled ‘‘Implementation of the 
School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994’’ 
and ‘‘1998 State Profiles’’; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3446. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulations, Special 
Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department 
of Education, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘National 
Institute on Disability and Rehabilitative 
Research’’ (84.133), received May 26, 
1999; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3447. A communication from the Chairman, 
Federal Maritime Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled 
‘‘Final Annual Performance Plan for Fiscal 
Year 2000’’; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3448. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Establishment of Class E Airspace; Crocket, 
TX; Docket No. 99–ASW–03 [5/24 (5–27)]’’ 
(RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0184), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3449. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Airworthiness Directives: Eurocopter 
France Model AS 3321.2 Helicopters; Request 
for Comments; Project No. 98–SW–61 [5/26 (5– 
27)]’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0232), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3450. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Airworthiness Directives: Eurocopter 
France Model SA–365N, N1, N2, N3, ans SA– 
366G1 Helicopters; Request for Comments; 
Project No. 98–SW–47 [5/26 (5–27)]’’ (RIN2120– 
AA64) (1999–0231), received May 27, 1999; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3451. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Airworthiness Directives: Mooney Aircraft 
Corporation Model M20R Airplanes; Request 
for Comments; Docket No. 99–CE–14 [5/24 (5– 
27)]’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0230), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3452. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 


S6698 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

‘‘Airworthiness Directives: Boeing Model 737 
Series Airplanes; Docket No. 98–NM–383 [5/24 
(5–27)]’’ (RIN2120–AA64) (1999–0229), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3453. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Boeing Model 737–100, –200, –300, –400, and –500 
Series Airplanes; Docket No. 99–NM–68–AD; 
Amendment 39–11165; AD 99–10–12’’ (RIN2120– 
AA64), received May 13, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3454. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Boeing Model 737–100, –200, –300, –400, and –500 
Series Airplanes; Docket No. 99–NM–337–AD; 
Amendment 39–11132; AD 99–08–23’’ (RIN2120– 
AA64), received May 3, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3455. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Boeing Model 747 Series Airplanes Equipped 
With General Electric Model CF6-45 or -50 
Series Engines; or Pratt and Whitney Model 
JT9D-3, -7, or -70 Series Engines; and 747-E4B 
(Military) Airplanes; Docket No. 99-NM-49AD; 
Amendment 39-11144; AD 99-09-11’’ 
(RIN2120-AA64), received May 3, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3456. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
McDonnell Douglas Model MD-11 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99-NM-59-AD; Amendment 
39-11136; AD 99-09-04’’ (RIN2120-AA64), 
received May 3, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3457. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
McDonnell Douglas Model MD-11 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99-NM-44-AD; Amendment 
39-11135; AD 99-09-03’’ (RIN2120-AA64), 
received May 3, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3458. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
McDonnell Douglas Model MD-11 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99-NM-43-AD; Amendment 
39-11134; AD 99-09-02’’ (RIN2120-AA64), 
received May 3, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3459. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives; 
Request for Comments; Eurocopter France 
Model AS-350B, B1, B2, B3 BA, and D Helicopters 
and Model AS 355E, F, F1, F2, and N 
Helicopters; Docket No. 98-SW-44-AD;’’ 
(RIN2120-AA64), received May 3, 1999; to the 

Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3460. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Systems 
Model 369E, 369FF, 500N, and 600H Helicopters; 
Docket No. 99-SW-11-AD’’ (RIN2120AA64), 
received May 24, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3461. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Lockheed Model L-1011-385 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 98-NM-199-AD; Amendment 3911147; 
AD 99-09-14’’ (RIN2120-AA64), received 
May 3, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3462. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Empressa Brasileira de Aeronautica S.A. 
(EMBRAER) Model EMB-145 Series Airplanes; 
Docket No. 99-NM-104-AD; Amendment 
39-11172; AD 99-11-01’’ (RIN2120-AA64), 
received May 17, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3463. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Bombardier Model CL-600-2B19 (Regional Jet 
Series 100) and CL-600-2B16 (CL-601-3R and 
CL-604) Series Airplanes; Docket No. 99-NM99-
AD; Amendment 39-11170; AD 99-09-52’’ 
(RIN2120-AA64), received May 17, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3464. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Mitsubishi Model YS-11 Series Airplanes; 
DOT Docket No. 97-NM-92-AD; Amendment 
39-11169; AD 99-10-16’’ (RIN2120-AA64), received 
May 17, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3465. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Industrie Aeronautiche e Meccaniche Model 
Piaggio P-180 Airplanes; Docket No. 98-CE96-
AD’’ (RIN2120-AA64), received May 17, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–3466. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthiness Directives: 
Raytheon Aircraft Corporation Beech Models 
65-90, 65-A90, 65-A90-1, -2, -3, -4, B90, C90, 
C90A, E90, H90 and F90 Airplanes; Final Rule; 
Request for Comments; Docket No. 99-CE-18AD’’ 
(RIN2120-AA64), received May 24, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–3467. A communication from the Program 
Support Specialist, Aircraft Certification 
Service, Federal Aviation Adminis


tration, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Docket No. 97-ANE-58-AD, 
Amendment 39-11173; AD 99-11-02; Pratt and 
Whitney R-1340 Series Reciprocating Engines’’ 
(RIN2120-AA64), received May 17, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–3468. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of five rules entitled ‘‘Approval and 
Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Massachusetts and Rhode Island; 
Nitrogen Oxides Budget and Allowance Trading 
Program (FRL #6080-4)’’, ‘‘Approval and 
Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Rhode Island; Amendments to 
Air Pollution Control Regulation Number 9 
(FRL #6346-6)’’, ‘‘National Emission Standards 
for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Generic 
Maximum Achievable Control Technology 
(Generic MACT) (FRL #6346-9)’’, ‘‘OMB Approvals 
under the Paperwork Reduction Act; 
Technical Amendments (FRL #6056-6)’’ and 
‘‘Underground Storage Tank Program: Approved 
State Petroleum Program for Tennessee 
(FRL #6334-7), received May 20, 1999; 
to the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3469. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; Ohio; Designation 
of Areas for Air Quality Planning 
Purposes; Ohio (FRL #6337-5)’’, received May 
4, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3470. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; Texas; Revision 
to the State Implementation Plan (SIP) 
Addressing Sulfur Dioxide in Harris County 
(FRL #6349-9)’’, received May 26, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3471. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Group-Term Insurance; Uniform Premiums’’ 
(RIN1545-AN54) (TD 8821), received 
June 1, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–3472. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations Unit, Internal Revenue Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Secured Employee Benefits Settlement Initiative’’ 
(Revenue Procedure 99-26), received 
June 1, 1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–3473. A communication from the Commissioner 
of Social Security, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the 1999 annual report of 
the Supplemental Security Income Program; 
to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–3474. A communication from the Chair, 
Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled 
‘‘Selected Medicare Issues’’, dated June 
1999; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–3475. A communication from the Chairman, 
Federal Election Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the annual report 
for fiscal year 1998; to the Committee on 
Rules and Administration. 

EC–3476. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Department of Health and Human 
Services, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: 
Adjuvants, Production Aids, and Sanitizers; 
Correction’’ (92F–0285), received May 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6699 

27, 1999; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3477. A communication from the Director, 
Regulations Policy and Management 
Staff, Department of Health and Human 
Services, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Direct Food Substances 
Affirmed as Generally Recognized as 
Safe: Cellulase Enzyme Preparation Derived 
from Trichoderma Longibrachiatum for Use 
in Processing Food’’ (79G–0372), received May 
28, 1999; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3478. A communication from the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled 
‘‘Infertility and Sexually Transmitted Diseases’’, 
dated March 1999; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–3479. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Surface Mining, Department of 
the Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Pennsylvania 
Regulatory Program—Final Rule; Correction’’ 
(SPATS #PA–125–FOR), received June 
1, 1999; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

EC–3480. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory 
Law, Office of Energy Efficient and Renewable 
Energy, Department of Energy, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Alternative Fuel Transportation 
Program; Biodiesel Fuel Use Credit’’ 
(RIN1904–AB00) (10 CFR part 490), received 
June 1, 1999; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–3481. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Export Administration, 
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Addition of Macau to the Export Administration 
Regulations’’ (RIN0694–AB89), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3482. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘National Flood 
Insurance Program; Determining the WriteYour-
Own Expense Allowance 64 FR 27705, 05/ 
21/99’’ (RIN6067–AC92), received May 28, 1999; 
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–3483. A communication from the Under 
Secretary for Export Administration, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, a report 
relative to export controls imposed on 
the Portuguese Colony of Macau; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–3484. A communication from the President 
and Chairman, Export-Import Bank of 
the United States, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to a transaction involving 
U.S. exports to Russia; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–3485. A communication from the Chairman, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative 
to the authorization request for fiscal 
years 2000 and 2001; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3486. A communication from the Administrator, 
Agricultural Marketing Service, 
Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Revision of User Fees for 1999 Crop 
Cotton Classification Services to Growers— 
Final Rule’’ (Docket No. CN–99–001), received 
June 1, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–3487. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Difenoconazole 

Pesticide Tolerance (FRL #6081–5), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–3488. A communication from the Deputy 
Secretary of Defense, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to the renovation 
of the Pentagon Reservation; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–3489. A communication from the Director, 
Employment Service, Office of Personnel 
Management, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Reemployment 
Rights of Employees Performing 
Military Duty’’ (RIN3206–AG02), received 
May 28, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3490. A communication from the Director, 
Employment Service, Office of Personnel 
Management, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Statuatory Bar to Appointment of Persons 
Who Fail to Register Under Selective Service 
Law’’ (RIN3206–AI72), received May 28, 
1999; to the Committee on Governmental Affairs. 


EC–3491. A communication from the Director, 
Policy Directives and Instructions 
Branch, Immigration and Naturalization 
Service, Department of Justice, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Adjustment of Status; Continued Validity 
of Nonimmigrant Status, Unexpired 
Employment Authorization, and Travel Authorization 
for Certain Applicants Maintaining 
Nonimmigrant H or L Status’’ (RIN1115– 
AE96) (INS No. 1881–97), received June 1, 1999; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 

EC–3492. A communication from the Chairwoman, 
Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of the Office of Inspector General 
for the period October 1, 1998 to March 31, 
1999 and the Commission’s Management Report 
for the period October 1, 1998 to March 
31, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3493. A communication from the Secretary 
of Labor, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of the Office of Inspector 
General for the period October 1, 1998 to 
March 31, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3494. A communication from the Chairman 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of the Office of Inspector 
General for the period October 1, 1998 to 
March 31, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3495. A communication from the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of the Office of 
Inspector General for the period October 1, 
1998 to March 31, 1999; to the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–3496. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of the Office of Inspector 
General for the period October 1, 1998 to 
March 31, 1999; to the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–3497. A communication from the Executive 
Director, Committee for Purchase from 
People who are Blind or Severely Disabled, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Additions to the Procurement 
List’’, received May 28, 1999; to the 
Committee on Governmental Affairs. 

EC–3498. A communication from the Assistant 
Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of the texts and background 
statements of international agreements, 
other than treaties; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 

EC–3499. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 

law, a report relative to the Palestine Liberation 
Organization; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 

EC–3500. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to the employment of 
Americans by the United Nations; to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations. 

EC–3501. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to the payment of danger 
pay to civilian employees; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–3502. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation Plans; 
Nevada State Implementation Plan Revision, 
Clark County (FRL #6350–5)’’, received 
May 26, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3503. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of State Plans for Designated Facilities 
and Pollutants; South Dakota Control of 
Landfill Gas Emissions from Existing Municipal 
Solid Waste Landfills (FRL #6351–8)’’, received 
May 26, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3504. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Protection of Stratospheric 
Ozone; Incorporation of Montreal 
Protocol Adjustments for a 1999 Interim Reduction 
in Class I, Group VI Controlled Substances 
(FRL #6351–6)’’, received May 26, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–3505. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Clean Air Act Approval 
and Promulgation of New Source Review 
Provisions Implementation Plan for Nevada 
State Clark County Air Pollution Control 
Division (FRL #6336–5)’’, received May 4, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–3506. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Clean Air Act Approval in 
Part and Disapproval in Part, Section 1112(l), 
State of Alaska: Amendment and Clarification 
(FRL #6317–7)’’, received May 4, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3507. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘National Emission Standards 
for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: 
Group I Polymers and Resins and Group IV 
Polymers and Resins and Standards of Performance 
for Volatile Organic Compound 
(VOC) Emissions from the Polymer Manufacturing 
Industry (FRL #6338–3)’’, received 
May 4, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3508. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 


S6700 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Notice of Availability of 
Funds for Source Water Protection (FRL 
#6336–7)’’, received May 4, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–3509. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of State Implementation Plans; Minnesota 
(FRL #6339–5)’’, received May 12, 1999; 
to the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3510. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of two rules entitled ‘‘Amendment to Regulations 
Governing Equivalent Emission Limitations 
by Permit (FRL #6343–2)’’ and 
‘‘Withdrawal of Direct Final Amendment to 
Regulations Governing Equivalent Emission 
Limitations by Permit (FRL #6343–1)’’, received 
May 11, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3511. A communication from the Assistant 
Administrator for Fisheries, Office of 
Sustainable Fisheries, Department of Commerce, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Fisheries Off West 
Coast States and in the Western Pacific; Pacific 
Coast Groundfish Fisheries; 1999 ABC, 
OY, and Tribal and Nontribal Allocations for 
Pacific Whiting’’ (RIN0648–AM12), received 
May 18, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3512. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Sustainable Fisheries, National 
Marine Fisheries Service, Department of 
Commerce, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Reduction of 
Cod Landing Limit (under the Northeast 
Multispecies Fishery Management Plan)’’, 
received May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3513. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security Zone Regulations: 
Unity Electric Company Fireworks 
Display, Shinnecock Bay, Hampton Bays, NY 
(CGD01-99–038)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) (1999–0022), 
received May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3514. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security Zone Regulations: 
Fire Island Tourist Bureau Fireworks 
Display, Great South Bay, Cherry 
Grove, NY (CGD01–99–047)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) 
(1999–0023), received May 27, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3515. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security Zone Regulations: 
Chelsea Street Bridge Fender System 
Repair, Chelsea River, Chelsea, MA 
(CGD01–99–053)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) (1999–0024), 
received May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3516. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security Zone Regulations: 
San Pedro Bay, CA (COTP LA/LB 99– 
003)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) (1999–0025), received 

May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3517. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Anchorage Ground; Safety 
Zone; Speed Limit; Tongass Narrows and 
Ketchikan, AK (CGD17–99–002)’’ (RIN2115– 
AF81), received May 27, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3518. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Mandatory Ship Reporting 
System Off the Northeast and Southeast 
Coasts of the United States (USCG–1999– 
5525)’’ (RIN2115–AF82), received May 27, 1999; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–3519. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Regatta Regulations; SLR; 
Harvard-Yale Regatta, Thames River, New 
London, CT (CGD01–99–054)’’ (RIN2115–AE46) 
(1999–0015), received May 27, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3520. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Lake Ponchatrain, LA (CGD08–99–032)’’ 
(RIN2115–AE47) (1999–0012), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3521. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Massalina Bayou, FL (CGD08–99–033)’’ 
(RIN2115–AE47) (1999–0012), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3522. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Muskingum River, OH (CGD08–99–020)’’ 
(RIN2115–AE47) (1999–0017), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3523. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, Harvey Canal, 
LA (CGD08–99–029)’’ (RIN2115–AE47) (1999– 
0016), received May 27, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3524. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Falgout Canal, LA (CGD08–99–035)’’ (RIN2115– 
AE47) (1999–0015), received May 27, 1999; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3525. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
Lake Champlain, NY and VT (CGD01–98–032)’’ 
(RIN2115–AE47) (1999–0014), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3526. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 

Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security Zone Regulations: 
Groton Long Point Yacht Club Fireworks 
Display, Main Beach, Groton Point, 
CT (CGD01–99–039)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) (1999– 
0021), received May 24, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3527. A communication from the Secretary 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report entitled the ‘‘Sixteenth 
Annual Report of Accomplishments 
under the Airport Improvement Program’’ 
for fiscal year 1997; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3528. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Regatta Regulations; SLR; 
Hudson Valley Triathalon, Hudson River, 
Kingston, NY (CGD01–98–155)’’ (RIN2115– 
AE46) (1999–0016), received May 24, 1999; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3529. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Regatta Regulations; SLR; 
Fleet’s Albany Riverfest, Hudson River, NY 
(CGD01–98–163)’’ (RIN2115–AE46) (1999–0017), 
received May 24, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3530. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge Regulations; 
River Rouge (Short-Cut Canal), MI (CGD09– 
98–055)’’ (RIN2115–AE47) (1999–0013), received 
May 24, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3531. A communication from the Chief, 
Regulations and Administrative Law, U.S. 
Coast Guard, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security Zone Regulations; 
4th of July Celebration Fireworks 
Display; Great South Bay, Sayville, NY 
(CGD01–99–040)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) (1999–0020), 
received May 24, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3532. A communication from the Principal 
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Congressional 
Affairs, Department of Veterans 
Affairs, transmitting, a draft of proposed legislation 
entitled ‘‘Veterans’ Benefits Improvement 
Act of 1999’’; to the Committee on 
Veteran’s Affairs. 

EC–3533. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Department of Defense, transmitting, 
a draft of proposed legislation relative 
to support to civil authorities for combating 
terrorism; to the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

EC–3534. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Department of Defense, transmitting, 
a draft of proposed legislation entitled 
‘‘Economic Development Conveyances of 
Base Closure Property’’; to the Committee 
on Armed Services. 

EC–3535. A communication from the Deputy 
Assistant for Fish and Wildlife and 
Parks, Department of the Interior, transmitting, 
a draft of proposed legislation relative 
to National Discovery Trails; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–3536. A communication from the Attorney 
Advisor, National Highway Safety Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Fuel Economy Calculations’’ 
(RIN2127–AG95), received May 24, 1999; to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 

EC–3537. A communication from the Attorney 
Advisor, National Highway Safety Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6701 

transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘High-Theft Lines for Model 
Year 2000’’ (RIN2127–AH36), received May 24, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3538. A communication from the Attorney 
Advisor, National Highway Safety Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Pelvic Restraints’’ (RIN2127– 
AG48), received May 24, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3539. A communication from the Attorney 
Advisor, National Highway Safety Administration, 
Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Consumer Information on 
Tire Grading’’ (RIN2127–AG67), received May 
24, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3540. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Modification of Class D and Class E Airspace; 
Rochester, MN; Docket No. 99–AGL–13 
(5–25/5–27)’’ (RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0178), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3541. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Modification of Class D and Class E Airspace; 
Minot, ND; Docket No. 99–AGL–12 (5– 
25/5–27)’’ (RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0177), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3542. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Modification of Class D and Class E Airspace; 
Wilmington, OH; Docket No. 99–AGL– 
14 (5–25/5–27)’’ (RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0179), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3543. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Modification of Class E Airspace; Jackson, 
MI; Docket No. 99–AGL–15 (5–27/5–25)’’ 
(RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0180), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3544. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Modification of Class E Airspace; Muskegon, 
MI; Docket No. 99–AGL–16 (5–25/5–27)’’ 
(RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0181), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3545. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Modification of Class E Airspace; Chico, 
CA; Docket No. 99–AWP–98 (5–25/5–27)’’ 
(RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0182), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3546. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Revision of Class E Airspace; Pampa, TX, 
Direct Final Rule, Confirmation of Effective 

Date; Docket No. 98–ASW–57 (5–24/5–27)’’ 
(RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0185), received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3547. A communication from the Program 
Analyst, Office of the Chief Counsel, 
Federal Aviation Administration, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Establishment of Class D Airspace and 
Modification of Class E Airspace, Bozeman, 
MT; Correction; Docket No. 98–ANM–19 (5–24/ 
5–27)’’ (RIN2120–AA66) (1999–0183), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3548. A communication from the Special 
Assistant Chief, Mass Media Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Amendment of Section 73.202(b), 
Table of Allotments, FM Broadcast Stations 
(La Fayette, Georgia),’’ received May 27, 
1999; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3549. A communication from the General 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Disaster Assistance; 
Cost-Share Adjustment, 64 FR 19496, 04/ 
21/99’’ (RIN3067–AC72), received April 30, 1999; 
to the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3550. A communication from the Chief, 
Operations Division, Directorate of Civil 
Works, Corps of Engineers, Department of 
the Army, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final Rule Establishing 
an Administrative Appeal Process for 
the Regulatory Program of the Corps of Engineers’’ 
(RIN0710–AA41), received May 11, 
1999; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–3551. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory 
Law, Office of Environment, Safety and 
Health, Department of Energy, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Radiological Protection for DOE Activities’’ 
(DOE N 441.4), received May 27, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3552. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory 
Law, Office of Environment, Safety and 
Health, Department of Energy, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Startup and Restart of Nuclear Facilities’’ 
(DOE O 425.1A), received May 27, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3553. A communication from the Acting 
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory 
Law, Office of Environment, Safety and 
Health, Department of Energy, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Safeguards and Security Independent Oversight 
Program’’ (DOE O 470.2), received May 
27, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3554. A communication from the Senior 
Attorney, Federal Highway Administration, 
Department of Transportation, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Credit Assistance for Surface Transportation 
Projects’’ (RIN2125–AE49), received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3555. A communication from the Secretary 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the annual report for fiscal year 1997; to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


EC–3556. A communication from the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a draft of proposed legislation 
entitled ‘‘Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000’’; 
to the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3557. A communication from the Director, 
Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
transmitting, a draft of proposed legislation 
relative to a working capital fund for 
the Agency; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3558. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and 
Parks, Office of Law Enforcement, U.S. Fish 
and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Migratory Bird Hunting: 
Regulations Regulating Baiting And 
Baited Areas’’ (RIN1018–AD74), received May 
28, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3559. A communication from the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to abnormal 
occurrences for fiscal year 2000; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3560. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, a report entitled ‘‘Quality 
Assurance Project Plan for the PM2.5 Performance 
Evaluation Program’’; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–3561. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, a report entitled ‘‘Revised 
Policy for Amending Form R and Form A 
Submissions; Toxic Chemical Release Inventory 
Reporting: Community Right-to-
Know’’; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3562. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; California 
State Implementation Plan Revision: Kern 
County Air Pollution Control District, 
Mudoc County Air Pollution Control District, 
Mojave Desert Air Quality Management 
District, Northern Sonoma County Air 
Pollution Control District, San Joaquin Valley 
Unified Air Pollution Control District, 
Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control 
District and Siskiyou County Air Pollution 
Control District (FRL #6331–8)’’; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–3563. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘List of Regulated Substances 
and Thresholds for Accidental Release 
Prevention; Stay of Effectiveness for 
Flammable Hydrocarbon Fuels (FRL #6351– 
1)’’, received May 25, 1999; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–3564. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of three rules entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; Alabama 
(FRL #6352–5)’’, ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of State Plans for Designated Facilities 
and Pollutants: Florida (FRL #6352–7)’’ 
and ‘‘Grant Application Guidance to Improve 
Small Business Assistance (FRL #)’’, received 
May 27, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3565. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 


S6702 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

of three rules entitled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plan for South 
Coast Air Quality Management District 
(FRL #6335–3)’’, ‘‘Approval and Promulgation 
of State Plans for Designated Facilities and 
Pollutants: North Dakota; Control of Emissions 
from Existing Hazardous/Medical/Infectious 
Waste Incinerators (FRL #6340–6)’’ and 
‘‘Revisions to the Permits and Sulfur 
Dioxis=de Allowance System Regulations 
under Title IV of the Clean Air Act: Compliance 
Determination (FRL #6341–2)’’, received 
May 7, 1999; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3566. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety/Security 
Zone Regulations; Ellis Island Medals 
of Honor Fireworks, New York Harbor, Upper 
Bay (CGD01–99–034)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) (1999– 
0018), received May 10, 1999; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 


EC–3567. A communication from the Chief, 
Office of Regulations and Administrative 
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of 
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Drawbridge 
Regulations: Hutchinson River, NY 
(CGD01–99–031)’’ (RIN2115–AA97) (1999–0008), 
received May 10, 1999; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

EC–3568. A communication from the President, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the extension of the waiver, under 
the Trade Act of 1974, to the People’s Republic 
of China; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–3569. A communication from the President, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the extension of the waiver, under 
the Trade Act of 1974, to Vietnam; to the 
Committee on Finance. 

EC–3570. A communication from the President, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the extension of the waiver, under 
the Trade Act of 1974, to the Republic of 
Belarus; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–3571. A communication from the President, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the continuing humanitarian crisis 
in the Kosovo region; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

EC–3572. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Regional Haze Regulations’’ 
(FRL #6353–4), received June 1, 1999; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3573. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulatory Management and 
Information, Office of Policy, Planning and 
Evaluation, Environmental Protection Agency, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Guidelines Establishing 
Test Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants; 
Measurement of Mercury in Water 
(EPA Method 1631, Revision B); Final Rule’’ 
(FRL #6354–3), received June 1, 1999; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3574. A communication from the Administrator, 
National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report entitled ‘‘Progress on Super-
fund Implementation in Fiscal Year 1998’’; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

were referred or ordered to lie on the 
table as indicated: 
POM—138. A concurrent resolution adopted 
by the Legislature of the State of Hawaii relative 
to the temporary visa waiver program; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 4 
Whereas, the United States Congress 
passed the Immigration Control and Reform 
Act of 1986 that established a temporary visa 
waiver program to pave the way toward better 
international relations and increased visitor 
travel between the United States and 
certain participating foreign countries; and 
Whereas, the temporary visa waiver program 
expired in September, 1996, and has 
since been extended on a year-to-year basis, 
with the current extension expiring in September, 
1999; and 
Whereas, the visa waiver program allows 
persons with waivers to enter the United 
States for a period of up to ninety days without 
a visa; and 
Whereas, twenty-one countries were participating 
in the visa waiver program with 
the United States as of 1996, with more being 
added since then; and 
Whereas, the visa waiver program is critical 
to boosting the number of international 
arrivals in Hawaii, with an estimated eighty 
percent of all international visitors arriving 
at Honolulu International Airport being 
under the visa waiver program; and 
Whereas, the addition of Taiwan, South 
Korea, and China to the visa waiver program 
by the United States would further boost Hawaii’s 
economy because of the huge numbers 
of travelers to Hawaii from these countries; 
and 
Whereas, despite the success of the visa 
waiver program, the United States Congress 
has not made the program permanent, instead 
preferring to extend it on a year-toyear 
basis; now, therefore, 
BE IT RESOLVED by the House of Representatives 
of the Twentieth Legislature of 
the State of Hawaii, Regular Session of 1999, 
the Senate concurring, that the United 
States Congress is urged to: 

(1) Make the visa waiver program permanent; 
and 
(2) Add Taiwan, South Korea, and China to 
the visa waiver program; 

and 

Be it Further Resolved that members of Hawaii’s 
congressional delegation are urged to 
exert efforts to make the visa waiver program 
permanent and add Taiwan, South 
Korea, and China to the program; and 

Be it Further Resolved that certified copies 
of this Concurrent Resolution be transmitted 
to the Majority Leader of the United States 
Senate, the Speaker of the United States 
House of Representatives, and the members 
of Hawaii’s congressional delegation. 

POM–139. A concurrent resolution adopted 
by the Legislature of the State of Idaho relative 
to the threat of terrorism; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 

HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 28 

Be It Resolved by the Legislature of the State 
of Idaho: 

Whereas, the threat of terrorism in the 
United States is a real and complex phenomenon 
that can strike any community, 
state or geographic region of our nation; and 

Whereas, threats incorporating the use of 
nuclear, radiological, biological, chemical 
and cyber weapons or combination thereof, 
may be used against critical infrastructures 

ing, exercises, equipping and funding strategies 
for state and local response forces be included 
in any national strategy; and 

Whereas, the Legislature joins with the 
National Governors’ Association and the National 
Emergency Management Association 
to affirm its commitment to ensuring a coordinated 
response and recovery to major 
emergencies and disasters, including incidents 
of terrorism and the use of weapons of 
mass destruction; now, therefore, 

BE IT RESOLVED, by the members of the 
First Regular Session of the Fifty-fifth Idaho 
Legislature, the House of Representatives 
and the Senate concurring therein, that we 
recommend the following actions be taken to 
improve the nation’s preparedness, and to 
more effectively prepare for, respond to, and 
recover from consequences of terrorism at 
the state and local level that: 

(1) The White House and the Congress 
should consult and coordinate with the nation’s 
governors and their states to develop 
and implement a national strategy that initiates 
and sustains activities for domestic 
preparedness at the state and local level. One 
hundred percent federally funded state and 
local assistance, previously granted to the 
states for civil defense, should be provided to 
the states for preparedness activities for crisis 
and consequence management as the result 
of the increasing potential for acts of 
terrorism and use of weapons of mass destruction. 
(2) The federal government recognizes that 
the short and long-term consequences of domestic 
terrorism is among the responsibilities 
of state and local government supplemented 
by the resources of the federal government. 
Federal agencies that are tasked 
with providing assistance to state and local 
government must be required to recognize 
and use the state’s emergency management 
systems that have effectively responded to 
state and local emergencies and disasters for 
over fifty years. 
(3) The National Guard of each state and 
territory is a critical state resource during 
emergencies and disasters. As such, the role 
of the National Guard and the Department of 
Defense must be better defined in preparing 
for acts of terrorism. Furthermore, the National 
Guard must be funded, trained, 
equipped and well exercised if it is to have a 
viable role in the response and recovery to 
the use of weapons of mass destruction and 
terrorism. 
(4) The nation’s public health and medical 
system capabilities must be significantly improved 
and fully integrated into the evolving 
domestic preparedness program. As a health 
matter, specific attention must be placed on 
the nation’s food supply, both that which has 
been harvested, and that which is yet to be 
developed. 
(5) The government at all levels must ensure 
that the protection of civil liberties and 
states’ rights will remain the highest priority 
within the context of national security 
as the United States prepares for and addresses 
the consequences of terrorism. The 
White House and the Congress should specifically 
develop methods to eliminate unauthorized 
activity in the name of expedience 
and national security. 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the state 
of Idaho recognizes and supports the efforts 
of the U.S. Department of Justice to accomplish 
the much needed program coordination 
through the creation of the National Domestic 
Preparedness Office. 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the 
Clerk of the House of Representatives be, 

f 


and the nation’s food supply, of which the and she is hereby authorized and directed to 
state of Idaho is a major producer; and forward a copy of this Resolution to the U.S.

PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS 

Whereas, because terrorist incidents would Department of Justice, the President of theThe following petitions and memo-occur in local communities within the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Rep-
rials were laid before the Senate and states, it is imperative that planning, train-resentatives and the members of the Senate 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6703 

and the House of Representatives representing 
the State of Idaho in the Congress 
of the United States. 

POM–140. A concurrent resolution adopted 
by the General Assembly of the State of 
Iowa relative to Health Care Financing Administration 
rules; to the Committee on Finance. 


HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 24 
Whereas, rules recently promulgated by 
the Health Care Financing Administration 
(HCFA) of the United States Department of 
Health and Human Services requiring Outcome 
and Assessment Information Set 
(OASIS) assessment and follow-up reports for 
all patients of Medicare-certified home 
health agencies and health departments, 
whether or not the patient is a recipient of 
Medicare; and 
Whereas, the OASIS system requires an 18page 
initial assessment which must be completed 
by a registered nurse, and a 13-page 
follow-up assessment which is required to be 
completed every sixty days; and 
Whereas, the requirement for computer 
software necessary for preparation and 
transmission of the OASIS system assessments 
and reports is essentially an unfunded 
federal mandate; and 
Whereas, the HCFA requirement necessitates 
costly reporting for patients who receive 
services not paid through Medicare and 
the reporting is duplicative of existing assessment 
and reporting requirements; and 
Whereas, in the small-scale home health 
care organization environment in Iowa, it is 
not feasible to provide services through separate 
organizations based upon whether the 
patient is a recipient of Medicare; and 
Whereas, the HCFA rules would result in 
Medicare-certified organizations only providing 
services to recipients of Medicare, 
thereby reducing the availability of preventive 
home services to older Iowans who are 
not recipients of Medicare, increasing in-hospital 
admissions and Medicare costs, and increasing 
nursing home admissions and Medicaid 
costs; and 
Whereas, OASIS appears to be solely a research 
project of HCFA, totally unfunded by 
federal sources, and accomplished with loss 
of funds by reporting agencies and loss of 
services to older Iowans; now; therefore, 

Be It Resolved by the House of Representatives, 
the Senate concurring, that the Congress 
of the United States is encouraged to amend 
the OASIS system requirements to apply 
them only to patients who are recipients of 
Medicare and not to all patients of Medicare-
certified home health agencies; and 

Be It Further Resolved, That the Chief Clerk 
of the House is directed to provide a copy of 
this resolution to the President of the 
United States, to the Secretary of the United 
States Department of Health and Human 
Services, to the President of the United 
States Senate, to the Speaker of the United 
States House of Representatives, to the Minority 
Leaders of the United States Senate 
and House of Representatives, and to each 
member of Iowa’s congressional delegation. 

POM–141. A concurrent resolution adopted 
by the Legislature of the State of Kansas relative 
to Health Care Financing Administration 
rules; to the Committee on Finance. 

HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 5041 
Whereas, New rules made by HCFA require 
OASIS assessment and follow-up reports for 
all patients of Medicare-certified home 
health agencies and health departments 
whether or not the personal or attendant 
care for such patients is paid from Medicare, 
and 
Whereas, The new HCFA report requires an 
18-page initial assessment, which must be 

completed by a registered nurse, with a 13 
page follow-up assessment being required 
every 60 days; and 

Whereas, The requirement for computer 
software for the preparation and transmission 
of such assessments and follow-up 
reports is another unfunded mandate of the 
federal government; and 

Whereas, The HCFA requirement requires 
costly unfunded reporting of those who receive 
services which are not paid by Medicare—
which reporting duplicates existing assessment 
and reporting requirements of the 
Kansas Department on Aging; and 

Whereas, In the environment of the small, 
home health care services existing in Kansas, 
it is not feasible to create separate organizations 
to provide services for non-Medicare 
customers. The end result of the HCFA 
rules is that Medicare-certified agencies will 
no longer be able to provide in-home services 
to non-Medicare customers. Consequently, 
with lower levels of preventive home services 
being available to older Kansans there will 
be an increase in hospital admissions, thus 
increasing Medicare costs, and an increase in 
nursing home admissions, thus increasing 
Medicaid costs; and 

Whereas, OASIS appears to be solely a research 
project of HCFA, totally unfunded by 
federal sources, and accomplished with loss 
of funds by reporting agencies and loss of 
services for Kansas seniors: now; therefore, 

Be it resolved by the House of Representatives 
of the State of Kansas, the Senate concurring 
therein: That we memorialize the Congress of 
the United States to require the Health Care 
Financing Administration OASIS reporting 
and data reporting requirements to apply 
only to Medicare patients and not to all patients 
of Medicare-certified home health 
agencies; and 

Be it further resolved: That the Secretary of 
State be directed to provide an enrolled copy 
of this resolution to the President of the 
United States, Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, President of the United 
States Senate, Speaker of the United States 
House of Representatives, minority leaders 
of the United States Senate and the United 
States House of Representatives, and to each 
member of the Kansas Congressional delegation. 


POM–142. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Idaho relative to 
the estate and gift taxes; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

We, your Memorialists, the House of Representatives 
and the Senate of the State of 
Idaho assembled in the First Regular Session 
of the Fifty-fifth Idaho Legislature, do hereby 
respectfully represent that: 

Whereas, the estate and gift tax is the federal 
government’s least significant revenue 
source contributing approximately 1.1% of 
total federal revenue and in 1998 just 1.66% of 
adult deaths in the United States are expected 
to result in taxable estates; and 

Whereas, a rationale for the estate and gift 
tax is that only the very wealthy pay it, but 
in 1995, 54% of all estate tax revenue came 
from estates under five million dollars and 
estate taxes that year fell for those with estates 
over twenty million dollars; and 

Whereas, the reason for the preceding is 
that careful estate planning can virtually 
eliminate the tax, however many estate 
planning techniques are costly and require 
long lead-times to implement, making the 
burden of the estate tax often falling on 
those with recently acquired modest wealth 
such as farmers and small businesses; and 

Whereas, the tax can be devastating on 
small businesses and agricultural operations 
and protecting these ventures from estate 
taxes can be costly and drain resources that 
could be better used by the owners to upgrade 
and expand their operations; and 

Whereas, the estate and gift tax may be 
having unintended environmental consequences 
as America’s nonindustrial private 
forest owners (who own 58% of America’s forest 
land) face the untimely timber harvest 
and disruption of established forest management 
programs because of the federal estate 
tax and this is counterproductive to society’s 
goals of sustainable forestry and environmental 
quality and the tax may also have 
the unintended consequence of forcing a decedent’s 
estate to subdivide or sell all or portions 
of the family land, that otherwise 
might be managed in a sustainable manner, 
in order to meet the estate tax obligation; 
and 

Whereas, Canada, Australia and Israel have 
repealed their estate taxes with three policy 
reasons given that more people were becoming 
subject to the tax, the relative tiny portion 
of revenue raised and arguments by 
economists that the tax is counterproductive; 
and 

Whereas, the inheritance tax is applied to 
property and goods that have already been 
taxed and some economists have indicated 
that the gross domestic product over the 
next seven years would be $80 billion higher 
if the estate and gift tax were repealed; now; 
therefore, 

Be it resolved by the members of the First 
Regular Session of the Fifty-fifth Idaho Legislature, 
the House of Representatives and 
the Senate concurring therein, that we respectfully 
request that members of Congress 
take a serious look at repealing the estate 
and gift tax or, at the very least, to increasing 
the exemption substantially. 

Be it further resolved, That the Chief Clerk 
of the House of Representatives be, and she 
is hereby authorized and directed to forward 
a copy of this Memorial to the President of 
the Senate and the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives of Congress, and the congress 
delegation representing the State of 
Idaho in the Congress of the United States. 

POM–143. A resolution adopted by the 
House of the Legislature of the State of Hawaii 
relative to tobacco settlement funds; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

HOUSE RESOLUTION NO. 2 
Whereas, on November 23, 1998, representatives 
from forty-six states signed a settlement 
agreement with the five largest tobacco 
manufacturers, which settled lawsuits 
seeking to recoup the states’ costs of treating 
smokers; and 
Whereas, the Attorneys General Master 
Tobacco Settlement Agreement culminated 
legal action that began in 1994 when states 
began filing lawsuits against the tobacco industry; 
and 
Whereas, currently, the respective states 
are in the process of finalizing the terms of 
the Master Tobacco Settlement Agreement 
and are making initial fiscal determinations 
relative to the most responsible ways and 
means to utilize the settlement funds; and 
Whereas, under the terms of the agreement, 
tobacco manufacturers will pay 
$206,000,000,000 over the next twenty-five 
years to the respective states in up-front and 
annual payments; and 
Whereas, under the terms of the Master 
Tobacco Settlement Agreement, Hawaii is 
projected to receive $1,179,165,923.07 through 
the year 2025; and 
Whereas, because many state lawsuits 
sought to recover Medicaid funds spent to 
treat illnesses caused by tobacco use, the 

U.S. Health Care Financing Administration 
contends that it is authorized and obligated 
under the Social Security Act, to collect its 
share of any tobacco settlement funds that 
are attributable to Medicaid; and 
Whereas, the Master Tobacco Settlement 
Agreement does not address the Medicaid 


S6704 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

recoupment issue, and thus, the Social Security 
Act must be amended to resolve the 
recoupment issue so that the moneys from 
the settlement remain with the respective 
states; and 

Whereas, in addition to the recoupment 
issue, there is also considerable interest in 
earmarking state tobacco settlement fund 
expenditures at both the state and national 
levels; and 

Whereas, as the final approval of the Master 
Tobacco Settlement Agreement nears, it 
is imperative that the states retain their 
rightful full share of the tobacco settlement 
funds; now, therefore, be it 

Resolved by the House of Representatives of 
the Twentieth Legislature of the State of Hawaii, 
Regular Session of 1999, That the U.S. 
Congress is urged to enact legislation that 
amends the Social Security Act to prohibit 
the federal government from receiving any 
share of the funds awarded in the tobacco 
settlement that was reached in 1998 between 
the states and the tobacco industry; and be 
it further Resolved that the respective state 
legislatures retain complete autonomy over 
the appropriation and expenditure of their 
respective tobacco settlement funds; and be 
it further Resolved that the U.S. Congress oppose 
any efforts by the federal government 
to earmark or impose any other restrictions 
on the respective states’ use of the state tobacco 
settlement funds; and be it further Resolved 
that certified copies of this Resolution 
be transmitted to the President of the 
United States, the President of the U.S. Senate, 
the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
and the members of Hawaii’s 
Congressional Delegation. 

POM–144. A resolution adopted by the 
Council of the City of Rockwood, Michigan 
relative to imported trash; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

POM–145. A resolution adopted by the 
House of the Legislature of the State of 
Vermont relative to the United Nations Convention 
on Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination 
Against Women; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

Whereas, the Convention on the Elimination 
of All Forms of Discrimination 
Against Women was adopted by the United 
Nations General Assembly on December 15, 
1979, and 

Whereas, it became an international treaty 
on September 3, 1981, and by October 1986, 154 
countries had consented to be bound by the 
Convention’s provisions, and 

Whereas, the Convention provides a comprehensive 
framework for challenging various 
forces that have created and sustained 
gender-based discrimination against one-half 
of the world’s population, and 

Whereas, the Convention banning discrimination 
against women guarantees women’s 
rights across many fields, including employment, 
education, voting, nationality, marriage 
and divorce, health care and equality 
before the law, and 

Whereas, the state of Vermont shares the 
goals of the Convention, namely affirming 
faith in fundamental human rights, in the 
dignity and worth of all human beings and in 
the equal rights of women, and 

Whereas, the state of Vermont has a history 
of supporting efforts to end gender-
based employment discrimination and, in 
1972, ratified the Equal Rights Amendment 
to the United States Constitution, and 

Whereas, although women have made 
major gains throughout the 20th century in 
the struggle for equality in social, business, 
political, legal, health, educational and 
other fields, there remains much yet to be 
accomplished, and 

Whereas, the state of Vermont recognizes 
the fact that other countries still engage in 

practices of gender apartheid—many African 
countries practice female genital mutilation; 
Afghanistan’s Taliban militia does not permit 
women to work, go to school or even 
leave the confines of their homes unless accompanied 
by a close male relative, and are 
prohibited from going to most hospitals or 
seeking care from male doctors, which leads 
to women and girls dying from easily treatable 
diseases; and sex tourism (the trafficking 
of women and girls) is practiced in 
Asia and is supported by organizations in the 
United States, and 

Whereas, the state of Vermont recognizes 
the greatly increased interdependence of the 
people of the world in this age of the global 
village and global telecommunications, and 

Whereas, the state of Vermont enacted a 
joint resolution urging the United States 
Congress to ratify the United Nations Convention 
on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Discrimination Against Women, which has 
not been ratified to date by the United 
States Congress, and 

Whereas, the United States is one of only 
22 countries that have not ratified the Convention, 
now therefore be it 

Resolved by the House of Representatives, 
That the Vermont House of Representatives 
urges the United States Congress to consider 
ratifying the United Nations Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination 
Against Women, and be it further 

Resolved, That the Clerk of the House be directed 
to send a copy of this resolution to 
President Bill Clinton, Vice President Al 
Gore, U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine 
Albright, U.S. Senator Jesse Helms, Chair of 
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
and to each member of the Vermont Congressional 
Delegation. 

POM–146. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Idaho relative to 
a national veterans cemetery in Idaho; to 
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. 

Whereas, Idaho is the only state in the nation 
without either a national veterans cemetery 
or a state veterans cemetery; and 

Whereas, the majority of the states without 
a national cemetery are located in the 
Northwest; and 

Whereas, only one of the six states bordering 
Idaho has a national cemetery; and 

Whereas, Idaho is centrally located for a 
regional cemetery in the Northwest; and 

Whereas, it is fitting and proper that a 
grateful nation should provide a burial site 
within a reasonable distance from the homes 
of those Idahoans and others residing in the 
northwestern states who honorably served 
their country in a time of emergency. 

Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the members 
of the First Regular Session of the Fifty-
fifth Idaho Legislature, the House of Representatives 
and the Senate concurring therein, That 
we respectfully and urgently request members 
of Idaho’s congressional delegation to 
support funding for a national veterans cemetery 
in Idaho to serve veterans in the northwestern 
states, and be it further 

Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the House 
of Representatives be, and she is hereby authorized 
and directed to forward a copy of 
this Memorial to the President of the Senate 
and the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
of Congress, and the congressional delegation 
representing the State of Idaho in the 
Congress of the United States. 

POM–147. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Minnesota relative 
to the Superior National Forest; to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


HOUSE RESOLUTION NO. 3 
Whereas, pursuant to the Organic, Enabling, 
and other acts relating to the estab


lishment of the state of Minnesota, land 
commonly referred to as school trust land 
has been granted to the state of Minnesota 
for public school and other purposes and has 
been constitutionally accepted and dedicated 
by the citizens of the state for such purposes 
by applying these lands to the production of 
income for the state’s permanent school 
fund, all as described in detail in Minnesota 
Statutes, section 1.0451, subdivision 2; and 

Whereas, pursuant to the federal Enabling 
Act authorizing the establishment of the 
state of Minnesota, on an equal footing with 
the original 13 states, and the Constitution 
of Minnesota, by which the citizens of Minnesota 
accepted the terms and conditions of 
the Enabling Act, the ownership of navigable 
waters and their beds was transferred to the 
state of Minnesota, all as described in detail 
in Minnesota Statutes, section 1.0451, subdivision 
1; and 

Whereas, approximately 100,000 acres of 
state-owned land (mostly school grant land) 
and approximately 172,000 acres of state-
owned waters, or a total of over 272,000 state-
owned acres, make up one-quarter of the 
1,078,000 acres that are included within that 
portion of the Superior National Forest that 
has been designated by Congress as the 
Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness; 
and 

Whereas, the extraordinary nature of the 
land and waters located in this wilderness 
area has been described by the 8th U.S. Circuit 
Court of Appeals as follows in its decision 
in State of Minnesota by Alexander v. 
Block, 449 F. Supp. 1223 (D. Minn. 1980), 660 
F.2d 1240 (8th Cir. 1981), Cert. denied 431 U.S. 
939 (1982): 

‘‘The Boundary Waters Canoe Area is the 
largest wilderness area east of the Rocky 
Mountains and the second largest in our wilderness 
system. It is our Nation’s only lake-
land canoe wilderness—a network of more 
than 1,000 lakes linked by hundreds of miles 
of streams and short portages which served 
as the highway of fur traders who followed 
water routes pioneered by Sioux and Chippewa 
Indians. Despite extensive logging, the 
BWCA still contains 540,000 acres of virgin 
forests, by far the largest such area in the 
eastern United States. 

‘‘This last remnant of the old ‘northwoods’ 
is remarkable not only for its lakes and virgin 
forests, but also for its wildlife. * * * 
[M]any western wilderness areas lack such 
complete food chains. This natural ecosystem 
is a valuable educational and scientific 
resource; it has been the focal point 
of important research in wildlife behavior, 
forest ecology, nutrient cycles, lake systems, 
and vegetation history.’’; and 

Whereas, within this wilderness that contains 
a network of more than 1,000 lakes 
linked by hundreds of miles of streams and 
short portages and a land surface that is 
crowned with a forest which includes 540,000 
acres of virgin or ‘‘old growth’’ timber that 
hosts unique plant and animal ecosystems 
such as that of the timber wolf, the state of 
Minnesota’s school grant and other lands are 
scattered in a checkerboard fashion across 
the entire area, a consequence of the fact 
that the lands were granted almost entirely 
in Sections 16 and 36 in most townships in 
what now is designated as a federal wilderness; 
and 

Whereas, as a consequence of decisions by 
the federal courts in the above cited case of 
State of Minnesota by Alexander v. Block, 
where the state unsuccessfully challenged 
the unilateral action by Congress of extending 
federal jurisdiction from federally owned 
land to state-owned water, the state’s free 
exercise of authority over its state-owned 
lands and waters was severely diminished; 
and 

Whereas, in the 18 years since the federal 
courts upheld this congressional extension of 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6705 

federal authority over state water, the only 
revenue earned on school and other state 
grant lands from wilderness users has been 
derived from a token campground reservation 
fee that is reappropriated for necessary 
campground maintenance and therefore adds 
nothing to the permanent school fund, the 
fund constitutionally established to support 
public schools of the state out of income derived 
from school and other grant land sale 
and natural resource management revenues; 
and 

Whereas, continuance of state land ownership 
within the Boundary Waters Canoe Area 
Wilderness not only defeats the purpose for 
which the state school grant lands were 
granted and dedicated, it also unnecessarily 
handicaps federal management duties relating 
to the wilderness area; and 

Whereas, the Minnesota Constitution, article 
XI, sections 8 and 10, provide that school 
and other grant lands may be sold only at 
public auction or exchanged; and 

Whereas, consolidation of federal land 
ownership within the Boundary Waters 
Canoe Area Wilderness through an exchange 
of Superior National Forest land that is located 
outside the wilderness area for state 
land that is located within the wilderness 
area will mutually benefit both the federal 
and state governments by simplifying federal 
wilderness area management activities 
through efficiencies arising from single land 
ownership and by enabling the state to properly 
manage its school trust lands for the 
purposes for which these lands were granted 
and dedicated, as was first contemplated for 
these lands by the Minnesota legislature in 
the enactment of Laws 1917, chapter 448, 
which created the Minnesota state forests in 
the counties of Cook, Lake, and St. Louis, 
the first state forests established in Minnesota; 
and 

Whereas, there appears, preliminarily, to 
be sufficient acreage of federal land that is 
located within the exterior boundaries of the 
Superior National Forest, exclusive of lands 
in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, 
to exchange for the high value state-
owned school grant and other land 
inholdings located within the wilderness 
area; now, therefore, be it Resolved, By the 
Legislature of the State of Minnesota that 
Congress is requested to speedily enact laws 
that would expedite the exchange of federally 
owned land located within the Superior 
National Forest that lies outside of the 
Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness for 
land owned by the state of Minnesota located 
within the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, 
and Be it Further Resolved, That in 
its deliberations concerning this request, 
Congress is requested to be especially cognizant 
that the legal title of the state of 
Minnesota to its school and other grant 
lands located within this wilderness area has 
been preserved, relatively unaltered, since 
being separated by grant from the federal 
public domain at statehood, and that the 
state of Minnesota’s checkerboard land ownership 
pattern gives these lands a unique 
value because the lands are an integral part 
of what the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals 
recognized in State of Minnesota by Alexander 
v. Block as ‘‘. . . our Nation’s only 
lakeland canoe wilderness—a network of 
more than 1,000 lakes linked by hundreds of 
miles of streams and short portages which 
served as the highway of fur traders . . .’’ 
and which ‘‘. . . still contains 540,000 acres of 
virgin [old growth] forests, by far the largest 
such area in the eastern United States.’’ And 
be it further Resolved, That Congress also be 
cognizant that the Minnesota Constitution, 
article XI, section 10, relating to the exchange 
of school grant and other state lands, 
requires the state to reserve mineral and 
water power rights in lands transferred by 

the state and, in addition, that Minnesota 
has never leased any state-owned minerals 
located on lands within the area that is federally 
designated as the Boundary Waters 
Canoe Area Wilderness, and further, that 
since 1976, under Minnesota Statutes, section 
84.523, state law prohibits, except when needed 
in a national emergency declared by Congress, 
the exploration and mining of state-
owned minerals and the harvesting of state-
owned peat, and Be it further 

Resolved, That while the state of Minnesota 
is cognizant of the fact that Congress may 
authorize the federal government to acquire 
state-owned school grant and other lands by 
eminent domain proceedings brought in federal 
courts, a procedure which entails congressional 
appropriation of the substantial 
amount of money necessary to pay Minnesota 
the market value of these lands as approved 
by the federal courts, the state hereby 
affirms that the mutual best interests of 
both the federal and state governments are 
best served by land exchange as a solution to 
the long-standing problem of intermingled 
land ownership within the Superior National 
Forest, and Be it further 

Resolved, That the Secretary of State of 
the State of Minnesota is directed to prepare 
copies of this memorial and transmit them 
to the President of the United States, the 
President and the Secretary of the United 
States Senate, the Speaker and the Clerk of 
the United States House of Representatives, 
the chair of the Senate Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources, the chair of the 
House Committee on Resources, and to each 
of Minnesota’s Senators and Representatives 
in Congress for the purpose of assisting those 
members in the discharge of duties imposed 
by Minnesota Statutes, section 1.0451, especially 
those duties set forth in subdivision 3 
relating to land exchange. 

POM–148. A petition from a citizen of the 

U.S. Virgin Islands relative to a shoppers 
visa; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 
POM–149. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Montana relative 
to full funding of payments in lieu of taxes 
on federal land in Montana; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

JOINT RESOLUTION 
Whereas, the stability of Montana’s economy 
has historically been dependent on use 
of our abundant natural resources; and 
Whereas, the natural resource harvest has 
contributed billions of dollars to Montana’s 
economy by providing employment opportunities 
to members of our communities and 
by supporting our business communities; and 
Whereas, revenue from industries related 
to natural resource harvest has produced 
taxes for the support of local and state governments; 
and 
Whereas, the federal government has long 
recognized the importance of supporting 
local governments in counties where the 
United States controls management of public 
lands by reimbursing state and local governments 
by payments in lieu of taxes 
(PILT); and 
Whereas, a variety of federal legislation, 
such as the Forest Reserve Act of 1890 sought 
to make equitable distribution to counties 
and to the education system of 25% of net 
proceeds derived by the sale of resources harvested 
on federal land; and 
Whereas, the federal government is now reducing 
the volume of timber cut in relation 
to the allowable sale quotas (ASQ), redistributing 
funds historically contained in the 25% 
fund (outfitter fees), reducing its commitment 
to full funding of PILT, which was reduced 
from 100% in 1994 to 53% in 1998, and 
redefining its commitment to states and 

counties (a decoupling effort to overturn the 
1890 Forest Reserve Act); and 

Whereas, this effort has and will cause irreparable 
financial harm to state and local 
governments, our natural resource industries, 
and employment opportunities for 
Montanans. 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the State of Montana: That the 
legislature of the State of Montana petition 
the U.S. Congress to ensure a full commitment 
by the federal government to full funding 
of PILT, a commitment toward the proper 
harvest of the natural resource base by 
way of already adopted ASQ, and a renewal 
of its compact with states and local governments 
to contribute the federal government’s 
fair share in taxes on land present in 
Montana but retained by the federal government, 
and 

Resolved, That the Secretary of State send 
copies of this resolution to the President of 
the United States, the Secretary of State of 
the United States, the President of the 
United States Senate, the Speaker of the 
United States House of Representatives, the 
Western Governors’ Association, and the 
Montana Congressional Delegation. 

POM–150. A resolution adopted by the 
Council of the City of Midland, Texas relative 
to incentives for the oil and gas industry; 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

POM–151. A resolution adopted by the 
Council of the City of Midland, Texas relative 
to incentives for the oil and gas industry; 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

POM–152. A resolution adopted by the Legislature 
of the State of Montana relative to 
water resource policies and issues; to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. 


JOINT RESOLUTION 
Whereas, the western states of the United 
States are critically dependent upon present 
and future water resources for their quality 
of life and economic base; and 
Whereas, the western states are geographically, 
hydrologically, and economically diverse 
and distinct from each other and from 
the eastern states; and 
Whereas, the western states have developed 
a customized system of water allocation 
under the prior appropriation doctrine 
in response to the arid conditions of the region; 
and 
Whereas, water resources in many of the 
major interstate river basins in the West are 
apportioned and administered through interstate 
and other compacts or court decrees 
between two or more states; and 
Whereas, there has been a long-standing 
policy of federal deference to the states in 
the areas of water resources administration, 
management, allocation, and protection; and 
Whereas, the western states have extensive 
experience in managing water resources, 
both surface and ground water supplies, and 
recognize the importance of protecting their 
water resources for present and future beneficial 
uses; and 
Whereas, all western states have a system 
of law for allocation of water rights, and 
there is broad consensus within the federal 
system that states should continue to have 
the exclusive responsibility to create and administer 
water rights; and 
Whereas, state water law provides for public 
participation and is based upon the allocation, 
transfer, and protection of water resources 
in the public interest; and 
Whereas, the number of federal agencies 
involved in some aspect of water policy or 
management continues to increase, adding 
duplication, confusion, and conflicting missions 
to the historic state systems; and 


S6706 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

Whereas, the U.S. Congress often considers 
legislation related to water resources management, 
some of which contains elements 
that could increase the federal role in water 
administration and conflict with the state’s 
responsibility for water programs; now 

Resolved by the Senate and the House of Representatives 
of the State of Montana, That 
Montana’s Congressional Delegation be respectfully 
requested to advocate to the appropriate 
federal agencies that any new or 
revised federal legislation or policy should: 

(1) Recognize that water resources administration, 
management, allocation, and protection 
are primarily the responsibility of 
the states and that federal policy should be 
supportive of this role of the western states; 
(2) provides flexibility for states to continue 
to develop and refine water resource 
programs appropriate for their own circumstances, 
taking into consideration items 
such as hydrology, existing water rights, potential 
development of the area, interstate 
and other compact obligations, and the public 
interest; 
(3) require all federal agencies to conduct 
their activities in accordance with, and in 
support of, state water resource programs 
and state water law; and 
(4) recognize and cooperate with the states’ 
prerogative and ability to manage, administer, 
and develop their water resources; be it 
Further Resolved, That the Secretary of 
State send copies of this resolution to the 
President of the United States, the Vice 
President of the United States, the President 
Pro Tempore of the Senate of the U.S. Congress, 
the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
of the U.S. Congress, and the Montana 
Congressional Delegation. 

POM–153. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Idaho relative to 
the Federal Land and Water Conservation 
Fund; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

Whereas, the Federal Land and Water Conservation 
Fund was created in 1965 to provide 
matching funds to encourage and assist local 
and state government in urban and rural 
areas to develop parks and to ensure accessibility 
to local outdoor recreation resources; 
and 

Whereas, the state of Idaho has invested 
more than $32 million in Federal Land and 
Water Conservation funds, which were 
matched by local and state funds, donated 
labor and materials, and community force 
accounts, to produce eighty percent of Idaho’s 
local recreation facilities and nearly all 
of our state parks; and 

Whereas, the Federal Land and Water Conservation 
Fund was the primary source of 
funding for Idaho’s greenbelts, exercise 
trails, neighborhood parks, swimming facilities, 
state parks, multipurpose sports fields, 
boating facilities, golf courses, camping 
areas, equestrian arenas, fishing accesses, 
zoo facilities, amphitheaters and scenic 
areas; and 

Whereas, since 1980, Idaho’s allocation of 
Federal Land and Water Conservation Funds 
for grants has diminished from $1.9 million 
to its total elimination in 1995; and 

Whereas, the elimination of Federal Land 
and Water Conservation Fund allocations 
has adversely affected Idaho’s outdoor recreation 
infrastructure, greatly reduced the 
ability of Idaho’s cities and counties to meet 
the needs of our rapidly increasing populations, 
and created a backlog of upgrades, 
renovations and repairs to outdoor recreation 
facilities exceed $270 million; and 

Whereas, outdoor recreation provides important 
economic, social, personal and resources 
benefits to the citizens of Idaho; and 

Whereas, it has been determined that four 
out of every five Americans utilize local and 

state government recreation and park services; 
and 

Whereas, outdoor recreation reduces crime 
by providing positive alternatives and experiences 
for Idaho’s citizens; and 

Whereas, the United States Congress is 
currently considering various bills and 
amendments concerning stateside funding 
for the Federal Land and Water Conservation 
Fund generated from Outer Continental 
Shelf oil royalties; Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved by the members of the First Regular 
Sessions of the Fifty-fifth Idaho Legislature, the 
House of Representatives and the Senate concurring 
therein, That the Congress of the 
United States is urged to pass legislation reallocating 
funding to the states from the 
Federal Land and Water Conservation Fund, 
be it 

Further Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of 
the House of Representatives be, and she is 
hereby authorized and directed to forward a 
copy of this Memorial to the President of the 
Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
of Congress, and the congressional 
delegation representing the State of 
Idaho in the Congress of the United States 
and the Honorable Dirk Kempthorne, Governor 
of the State of Idaho. 

POM–154. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Idaho relative to 
the stabilization of payments of the United 
States Forest Service; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources. 

HOUSE JOINT MEMORIAL NO. 4 
Whereas, under the provisions of the Forest 
Service law of May 23, 1908, 35 Stat. 259, 
260, 267 and as subsequently amended by the 
National Forest Managemenbt Act and the 
Federal Land Policy Management Act, the 
United States Forest Service pays to counties 
through the state treasurer twenty-five 
percent of gross revenues from timber sales, 
grazing permits and leases, recreation fees, 
power line rights-of-way, special use permits 
and other programs; and 
Whereas, the payments are made to states 
from each national forest, then are apportioned 
to counties according to the proportion 
of acreage of each national forest in 
each county; and 
Whereas, counties have few sources of revenue 
and rely on these payments to maintain 
their public roads and their public schools; 
and 
Whereas, the Forest Service payments 
have become unpredictable due to market 
fluctuations and the volatility of the public 
debate on timber harvests on national forests, 
and generally have declined because of 
reduced timber harvest on national forests; 
and 
Whereas, demands on counties to provide 
good public roads and public schools have increased 
due to increases in resident population 
and tourism; and 
Whereas, stabilizing payments required by 
the 1908 Forest Service law is essential for 
responsible fiscal planning by the counties; 
now, therefore, be it 

Resolved by the members of the First Regular 
Session of the Fifty-fifth Idaho Legislature, the 
House of Representatives and the Senate concurring 
therein, That we strongly support stabilization 
of payments of the United States 
Forest Service to county governments 
through the state treasurer and urge our 
congressional delegation representing the 
state of Idaho in the Congress of the United 
States to support legislation that will stabilize 
payments made by the United States 
Forest Service to the counties of the state of 
Idaho; be it 

Further resolved, That the Chief Clerk of 
the House of Representatives be, and she is 
hereby authorized and directed to forward a 

copy of this Memorial to the President of the 
Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
of Congress, and the congressional 
delegation representing the state of 
Idaho in the Congress of the United States. 

POM–155. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Idaho relative to 
the stabilization of payments of the United 
States Forest Service; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources. 

HOUSE JOINT MEMORIAL NO. 5 
Whereas, under the provisions of the Forest 
Service law of May 23, 1908, 35 Stat. 259, 
260, 267 and as subsequently amended by the 
National Forest Management Act and the 
Federal Land Policy Management Act, the 
United States Forest Service pays to counties 
through the State Treasurer twenty-five 
percent of gross revenues from timber sales, 
grazing permits and leases, recreation fees, 
power line rights-of-way, special use permits 
and other programs; and 
Whereas, the payments are made to states 
from each national forest, then are apportioned 
to counties according to the proportion 
of acreage of each national forest in 
each county; and 
Whereas, the law mandates that these 
funds be used for public roads and public 
schools; and 
Whereas, counties with large amounts of 
federal lands have few sources of revenue and 
rely on these payments to maintain their 
public roads and their public schools; and 
Whereas, the Forest Service payments 
have become unpredictable due to forest 
planning processes over the past ten years 
that have reduced timber harvests on national 
forests; and 
Whereas, demands on counties to provide 
necessary services such as good public roads, 
public schools, sanitation services, and 
search and rescue have increased; and 
Whereas, stabilizing payments required by 
the 1908 Forest Service law is essential for 
responsible fiscal planning by the counties; 
now, therefore, be it 

Resolved by the members of the First Regular 
Session of the Fifty-fifth Idaho Legislature, the 
House of Representatives and the Senate concurring 
therein, That we strongly support stabilization 
of payments of the United States 
Forest Service to county governments 
through the State Treasurer and urge our 
congressional delegation representing the 
state of Idaho in the Congress of the United 
States to support legislation that will stabilize 
payments made by the United States 
Forest Service to the counties of the state of 
Idaho by increasing the annual timber harvest 
from federal lands within the state of 
Idaho to the allowable sales quantity levels 
outlined in the current forest plans and by 
increasing to fifty percent the amount of federal 
funds returned to the counties from the 
sale of federal timber under the provisions of 
the Forest Service law of May 23, 1908, 35 
Stat. 259, 260, 267 and as subsequently amended 
by the National Forest Management Act 
and the Federal Land Policy Management 
Act; be it 

Further resolved, That the Chief Clerk of 
the House of Representatives be, and she is 
hereby authorized and directed to forward a 
copy of this Memorial to the President of the 
United States, the President of the Senate 
and the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
of Congress, and the congressional delegation 
representing the state of Idaho in the 
Congress of the United States. 

POM–156. A joint resolution adopted by the 
General Assembly of the Commonwealth of 
Virginia relative to the Appalachian Development 
Highway System; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6707 

SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 523 

Whereas, the construction of the Coalfields 
Expressway is anticipated to begin in 1999; 
and 

Whereas, the estimated cost of completing 
the Coalfields Expressway is $1.5 billion; and 

Whereas, through federal taxes on motor 
fuels and special fuels, motorists in the Commonwealth 
of Virginia contribute significantly 
to the federal Highway Trust Fund; 
and 

Whereas, the Appalachian Development 
Highway System was created by the United 
States Congress for the purpose of stimulating 
the economic development of the entire 
Appalachian Region and is now funded 
directly through the federal Highway Trust 
Fund; and 

Whereas, a recently completed study of the 
Appalachian Development Highway System 
concluded that, upon its completion, this 
system will provide the region through 
which it passes with 42,000 new jobs, 84,000 
new residents, $2.9 billion in new wages, and 
$6.9 billion in value added business; and 

Whereas, the Coalfields Expressway, when 
completed, will traverse a portion of the 
Commonwealth of Virginia characterized by 
chronic unemployment and pockets of intractable 
poverty; and 

Whereas, the Coalfields Expressway is not 
presently a portion of the Appalachian Development 
Highway System, but receives its 
federal funding through special congressional 
appropriations made in unpredictable 
amounts at irregular intervals; and 

Whereas, federal funding of the Coalfields 
Expressway to date consists of only two appropriations: 
one of $50 million in 1991 and 
another of $22.7 million in 1998; and 

Whereas, inclusion of the Coalfields Expressway 
into the Appalachian Development 
Highway System would allow it to be funded 
more fully and more reliably; now, therefore, 
be it 

Resolved by the Senate, the House of Delegates 
concurring, That the Congress of the 
United States be urged to include the Coalfields 
Expressway in the Appalachian Development 
Highway System; and, be it 

Resolved Further, That the Clerk of the 
Senate transmit copies of this resolution to 
the President of the United States Senate, 
the Speaker of the United States House of 
Representatives, and the members of the 
Virginia Congressional Delegation in order 
that they may be apprised of the sense of the 
Virginia General Assembly in this matter. 

POM–157. A resolution adopted by the 
Council of the City of Inkster, Michigan relative 
to state and local land use zoning authority; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 

POM–158. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Nevada relative 
to the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigration 
Responsibility Act of 1996; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 

SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 19 
Whereas, The economy of the State of Nevada 
is dependent upon tourism; and 
Whereas, Canada and Mexico rank No. 1 
and No. 7, respectively, among Nevada’s 
sources of international tourism, sending 
more than 1.5 million Canadian visitors and 
more than 104,000 Mexican visitors to this 
state per year; and 
Whereas, Visitors from Canada and Mexico 
comprise a major economic contribution to 
the State of Nevada; and 
Whereas, the United States has entered 
into international trade agreements with its 
neighbors, Canada and Mexico, to foster, encourage 
and stimulate the exchange of goods 
and products for mutual economic gain; and 
Whereas, The United States does not currently 
require departing tourists returning 

to Canada and Mexico to be stopped and 
identified at border crossings; and 

Whereas, Section 100 of the Illegal Immigration 
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility 
Act of 1996 requires that a new entry-
exit control system be implemented to track 
all foreign visitors entering and leaving the 
United States but does not provide any law 
enforcement benefits; and 

Whereas, The Illegal Immigration Reform 
and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 
would impose new border inspection requirements 
for the gathering of data at entry and 
departure points for vehicular traffic from 
Canada and Mexico where none currently 
exist; and 

Whereas, The new border entry-exit system 
does not provide for any enhancement of provisions 
for apprehending or removing illegal 
immigrants, drug traffickers, terrorists or 
other criminals and would not curtail illegal 
immigration at the borders; and 

Whereas, No inspection stations or other 
facilities for departing foreign travelers have 
been constructed; and 

Whereas, This system would be implemented 
at enormous expense to the taxpayers 
of the United States with no tangible 
benefits; and 

Whereas, Congress has held hearings at 
various sites along the Canadian border to 
consider exempting that country from the 
provisions of the Act, but no such hearings 
have been held or are scheduled in the Mexican 
border states; and 

Whereas, Mexican and Canadian tourists 
who enter the United States for business and 
recreational travel are not immigrants; and 

Whereas, These nonimmigrant Mexican 
and Canadian business and leisure travelers 
who will already be required to present travel 
documents to enter the United States, 
would be subjected to inspections and queries 
upon departure that would cause travel 
delays and inconveniences to those tourists; 
and 

Whereas, Such delays and inconveniences 
would discourage tourism in the United 
States by Mexican and Canadian citizens, 
delay commerce and create an economic 
downturn; and 

Whereas, The borders with Canada and 
Mexico should be kept reasonably free of 
governmental over-involvement in order to 
encourage tourism, trade and legitimate economic 
activity that benefit all three countries; 
and 

Whereas, The National Governors’ Association 
at its meeting in Washington in February 
1998 determined that the entry-exit 
control system may have ‘‘unintended negative 
consequences on international trade, 
tourism and the economy’’; and 

Whereas, The National Governors’ Association 
urged suspension of implementing the 
entry-exit control system until Congress and 
the President can ensure that any such system 
will not disrupt tourism, trade or other 
legitimate traffic entering the United 
States; and 

Whereas, Congress passed legislation in October 
1998 delaying imposition of the implementation 
of the provisions of Section 110 
until March 31, 2001, but allowing the exit 
system to take effect at the airports of international 
entry in the United States; now, 
therefore, be it 

Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of 
the State of Nevada, Jointly, That Congress 
is hereby urged permanently to mitigate the 
consequences of the provisions of Section 110 
of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant 
Responsibility Act of 1996; and be it 
further 

Resolved, That Congress is encouraged to 
keep the borders between the United States 
and Canada and Mexico reasonably free of 
governmental over-involvement and to im


pose no new restrictions until infrastructure 
is available that can collect data and detect 
illegal and unwanted immigration without 
disrupting legitimate tourist travel; and be 
it further 

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate 
prepare and transmit a copy of this resolution 
to the Vice President of the United 
States as the presiding officer of the Senate, 
the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
and each member of the Nevada Congressional 
Delegation; and be it further 

Resolved, That this resolution becomes effective 
upon passage and approval. 

POM–159. A resolution adopted by the Senate 
of the State of Michigan relative to prayer 
in public schools; to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 

SENATE RESOLUTION NO. 55 
Whereas, The 48th Annual National Day of 
Prayer was observed on May 6, 1999, and the 
United States of America was founded by 
men and women with varied religious beliefs 
and ideals; and 
Whereas, The First Amendment to the 
United States Constitution states that ‘‘Congress 
shall make no law respecting an establishment 
of religion or prohibiting the free 
exercise thereof . . .,’’ which means that the 
government is prohibited from establishing a 
state religion. However, no barriers shall be 
erected against the practice of any religion; 
and 
Whereas, The establishment clause of the 
First Amendment was not drafted to protect 
Americans from religion, rather, its purpose 
was clearly to protect Americans from governmental 
mandates with respect to religion; 
and 
Whereas, The Michigan Legislature strongly 
believes that reaffirming a right to voluntary, 
individual, unorganized, and non-
mandated prayer in public schools is an important 
element of religious choice guaranteed 
by the Constitution, and will reaffirm 
those religious rights and beliefs upon which 
the nation was founded; now, therefore, be it 
Resolved by the Senate, That the members 
of this legislative body memorialize the Congress 
of the United States to strongly support 
voluntary, individual, unorganized, and 
non-mandatory prayer in the public schools 
of this nation; and be it further 
Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be 
transmitted to the President of the United 
States Senate, the Speaker of the United 
States House of Representatives, and the 
members of the Michigan congressional delegation. 


POM–160. A resolution adopted by the St. 
Francis Assisi Parish of Houston, Texas relative 
to capital punishment; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 

POM–161. A resolution adopted by the Episcopal 
Diocese of Washington, D.C. relative to 
hate crimes; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 


POM–162. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Washington relative 
to the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund; to the Committee on Appropriations. 

HOUSE JOINT MEMORIAL 4012 
To the Honorable William J. Clinton, 
President of the United States, and to the 
President of the Senate and the Speaker of 
the House of Representatives, and to the 
Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States, in Congress assembled: 
We, your Memorialists, the Senate and 
House of Representatives of the State of 
Washington, in legislative session assembled, 
respectfully represent and petition as follows: 
Whereas, Washington state contains a rich 
diversity of forests, rivers, seacoasts, grasslands, 
deserts, and other habitats, and an 


S6708 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

equally diverse population of fish and wildlife, 
all of which require by law some level of 
protection and responsible management by 
federal, state, and local agencies; and 

Whereas, Washington state also contains a 
large number and variety of outstanding recreational 
facilities and opportunities, including 
three national parks, a national volcanic 
monument, one hundred twenty-five state 
parks, and many local parks, trails, water 
access areas, swimming pools, and sports 
fields; and 

Whereas, Outdoor recreation and wildlife 
enjoyment are important elements of the 
Northwest way of life. A large majority of 
Washington’s residents and visitors actively 
pursue and enjoy a range of outdoor recreation 
activities, from active sports such as 
soccer, softball, swimming, and bicycling, to 
outdoor and wildlife-related pursuits such as 
hiking, camping, canoeing, and wildlife observation; 
and 

Whereas, Outdoor recreation and wildlife 
enjoyment are also important elements of 
Washington’s economy. For example, a 1996 
survey conducted by the United States fish 
and wildlife service showed that annual wildlife-
related recreation expenditures exceeded 
one hundred billion dollars, almost three billion 
dollars spent in Washington state. Wildlife 
viewing alone accounts for more than 
twenty-one thousand jobs in Washington 
state; and 

Whereas, Washington’s population is one of 
the fastest-growing in the United States, 
with an even faster-growing public demand 
for wildlife conservation, wildlife-related 
recreation, and outdoor recreation facilities; 
and 

Whereas, the federal Land and Water Conservation 
Fund (LWCF) was created in 1965 
to preserve, develop, and assure that all 
Americans have access to quality outdoor 
recreation. In the thirty years since its creation, 
LWCF has funded the acquisition of 
almost seven million acres of parkland, 
water resources, wildlife habitat open space, 
and the development of more than thirty-
seven thousand state, municipal, and local 
parks and recreation projects. In recent 
years, LWCF funding for federal projects has 
been reduced by more than half and funding 
for state projects has been entirely eliminated; 
and 

Whereas, Washington and other states lack 
adequate, dedicated funding for fish and 
wildlife protection and management, especially 
for those species which are not hunted 
and fished and which are not listed as threatened 
or endangered. In 1980, Congress passed 
the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act (P.L. 
96–366) which was intended to address the 
protection and management of nonhunted 
wildlife species, but the act was never funded, 
leaving the entire responsibility to the 
states; 

Now, therefore, Your Memorialists respectfully 
pray that Congress pass legislation to 
restore and revitalize federal funding for the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund. Lands 
shall be open for public use and enjoyment. 
We pray that Congress create a new dedicated 
fund for state-level fish and wildlife 
management, which would be administered 
by the United States fish and wildlife service; 
be it 

Resolved, That copies of this Memorial be 
immediately transmitted to the Honorable 
William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States, the President of the United States 
Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
and each member of Congress 
from the State of Washington. 

POM–163. A resolution adopted by the 
Board of County Commissioners of Cuyahoga 
County, Ohio relative to the Ryan White 
Care Act; to the Committee on Appropriations. 


POM–164. A concurrent resolution adopted 
by the Legislature of the State of Hawaii relative 
to the Social Security Act; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 219 
Whereas, the State of Alaska received an 
increase in its Federal Medical Assistance 
Percentage (FMAP) from 50 percent to 59.8 
percent in consideration of the high cost of 
living in Alaska by an amendment to the Social 
Security Act; and 
Whereas, United States Senator Daniel K. 
Akaka, United States Senator Daniel K. 
Inouye, United States Representative Neil 
Abercrombie, and United States Representative 
Patsy T. Mink have recently introduced 
federal legislation to amend the Social Security 
Act to increase Hawaii’s FMAP in consideration 
of Hawaii’s high cost of living; 
and 
Whereas, federal financial participation for 
the medicaid program is based on the FMAP 
which is calculated according to a formula 
based on per capita income in the individual 
state in relation to the per capita income of 
the United States; and 
Whereas, the FMAP is calculated as the 
quotient of the per capita income of the 
United States, times a multiplier, the state 
income is determined as a designated portion 
of the national income as determined at the 
United States Department of Commerce, Bureau 
of Economic Analysis (BEA) and the per 
capita income of Hawaii is an amount that is 
derived at the BEA as a portion of national 
income statistics; and 
Whereas, because of its island location and 
other factors, the cost of living in Hawaii 
greatly exceeds the cost of living in the 
mainland states, so that per capita income is 
a poor measure of its relative ability to bear 
the cost of medical services; and 
Whereas, a study conducted by the 
Taubman Center for State and Local Government 
at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy 
School of Government and the Office of 
United States Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, 
established that if per capita income 
is measured in real terms, considering cost 
of living factors, Hawaii ranked 47th at 
$19,755 compared to the national average 
$24,231 and Alaska is ranked 34th with a real 
per capita income level of $21,592; and 
Whereas, the Harvard/Moynihan study 
cites Hawaii with one of the highest poverty 
rates in the nation—Hawaii ranks eighth in 
the country with a poverty rate of 16.9 percent 
as compared to the national average of 

14.7 percent—and on a per capita basis state 
revenues and expenditures are far higher in 
Hawaii, as well as Alaska, than in the other 
48 mainland states, but Alaska’s 10.6 percent 
poverty rate is lower than the national average, 
placing it 39th in the country; and 
Whereas, Hawaii has not participated in 
the economic rebound that has benefited 
most of the rest of the nation in the past several 
years, in part because of its heavy dependence 
on international tourism and 
trade, and Hawaii continues to suffer from 
the drop in value in the Japanese yen, its unemployment 
rate is above the national average, 
and its tax revenues have fallen short of 
estimates; and 

Whereas, based on Hawaii’s current medicaid 
spending level of approximately $700 
million, each percentage point increase in its 
FMAP rate would provide approximately $7 
million annually in additional federal funds; 
and 

Whereas, the State of Hawaii is seeking to 
have its medicaid program funded in dollars 
equal to its tax contributions based on its 
higher per capita income and one that recognizes 
its true costs, as was done for Alaska; 
now, therefore, be it 

Resolved by the House of Representatives of 
the Twentieth Legislature of the State of Ha


waii, Regular Session of 1999 (the Senate concurring), 
That this body hereby urges the 
United States Congress, the President of the 
United States, and the United States Secretary 
of Health and Human Services to support 
United States Senator Daniel K. Akaka, 
United States Senator Daniel K. Inouye, 
United States Representative Neil Abercrombie, 
and United States Representative 
Patsy T. Mink’s federal legislation to amend 
the Social Security Act to increase Hawaii’s 
FMAP in consideration of our high cost of 
living; and be it further 

Resolved That certified copies of the Concurrent 
Resolution be transmitted to the 
members of the United States Congress, the 
President of the United States, and the Secretary 
of the United States Department of 
Health and Human Services. 

POM–165. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Vermont relative 
to Social Security; to the Committee on Finance. 


JOINT HOUSE RESOLUTION 113 
Whereas, the purpose of Social Security is 
to provide a strong, simple and efficient 
form of basic insurance against the adversities 
of old age, disability and dependency, 
and 
Whereas, for 60 years Social Security has 
provided a stable platform of retirement, disability 
and survivor annuity benefits to protect 
working Americans and their dependents, 
and 
Whereas, the costs to administer Social Security 
are less than one percent of the benefits 
delivered, and 
Whereas, the American and world economies 
continue to encounter periods of high 
uncertainty and volatility that make it as 
important as ever to preserve a basic and 
continuing safety net of protections guaranteed 
by our society’s largest guarantor of 
risk, the federal government, and 
Whereas, Social Security affords protections 
to rich and poor alike and no citizen, 
no matter how well-off today, can foretell tomorrow’s 
adversities, and 
Whereas, average life expectancies are increasing 
and people are commonly living 
into their 80’s and 90’s, making it more important 
than ever that each of us be fully 
protected by defined retirement benefits, and 
Whereas, medical scientists are continually 
developing new ways to maintain and 
enhance the lives of people with severe disabilities, 
thus making it more important 
that each of us to be protected against the 
risk of dependency, institutionalization and 
impoverishment, and 
Whereas, the lives of wage earners and 
their spouses are seldom coterminous; one 
often outlives the other by decades, making 
it crucial to preserve a secure base of protection 
for children and other family members 
dependent on a wage earner who may die or 
become disabled, and 
Whereas, Social Security, in current form, 
reinforces family cohesiveness and enhances 
the value of work in our society, and 
Whereas, Congress currently has proposals 
to shift a portion of Social Security contributions 
from insurance to personal investment 
accounts for each wage earner, and 
Whereas, Social Security, our largest and 
most fundamental insurance system, cannot 
fulfill its protective function if it is splintered 
into individualized stock accounts and 
must create and manage millions of small 
risk-bearing investments out of a stream of 
contributions intended as insurance, and 
Whereas, private accounts cannot be substituted 
for Social Security without eroding 
basic protections for working families, since 
such protections, to be strong, must be insulated 
from economic uncertainty and be 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6709 

backed by the entity best capable of spreading 
risk, the federal government, and 

Whereas, the diversion of contributions to 
private investment accounts would dramatically 
increase financial shortfalls to the Social 
Security trust fund and require major 
reductions in the defined benefits upon 
which millions of Americans depend, and 

Whereas, to administer 150 million separate 
investment accounts would require a 
larger bureaucracy, and the resulting expense 
and the cost of converting each account 
to an annuity upon retirement would 
consume much of the profit or exacerbate 
the loss realized by each participant, and 

Whereas, the question of whether part of 
the Social Security Trust Fund should be diversified 
into investments other than government 
bonds so that, while still invested 
collectively at low expense, returns may be 
increased, thus enhancing the capacity of 
the fund to meet its obligations to pay benefits 
while spreading the risk across the entire 
spectrum of Social Security participants, 
is entirely different from that of 
splintering its millions of accounts, and 

Whereas, creating an array of winners and 
losers would be contrary to the basic principles 
of insurance and risk distribution, 
thus defeating the purpose of this part of our 
retirement system, and 

Whereas, Congress amended the Internal 
Revenue Code to provide a full menu of provisions 
that enables working Americans and 
their employers to voluntarily contribute to 
tax-sheltered accounts that are open to the 
opportunities and exposed to the risks of investment 
markets, diverting Social Security 
contributions to private accounts duplicates 
existing programs, and 

Whereas, such recently created systems 
now cover half of American families, now 
therefore be it 

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives, 
That the General Assembly respectfully 
and strongly urges Congress not 
to enact laws that might tend to diminish or 
undermine a unified and stable Social Security 
system, and be it further 

Resolved, That laws to encourage workers 
and their employers to save or invest for retirement 
should supplement and not substitute 
for the basic benefits of Social Security 
insurance that are vital to American 
working families, and be it further 

Resolved, That the Secretary of State be directed 
to send a copy of this resolution to 
the President of the United States Senate, 
the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
of the United States and each member of the 
Vermont Congressional Delegation. 

POM–166. A resolution adopted by the 
Council of the City of Oak Ridge, Tennessee 
relative to the reindustrialization of the 
East Tennessee Technology Park; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

POM–167. A resolution adopted by the 
Council of the City of Cleveland Heights, 
Ohio relative to the United Nations Convention 
on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination 
Against Women; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 

POM–168. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Assembly of the State of Nevada relative to 
surface mining regulations; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

ASSEMBLY JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 19— 
Whereas, Mining is of critical importance 
to Nevada and its rural communities as a 
significant contributor to this state’s economy; 
and 
Whereas, The ‘‘Nevada model’’ of regulating 
the mineral industry is known and respected 
industrywide because it balances the 
global needs for natural resources with re


lated environmental concerns and the economic 
needs of private business, thereby resulting 
in an environmentally healthy state 
with a viable and responsible mineral industry 
that uses state-of-the-art technology; 
and 

Whereas, Surface mining regulations governing 
hardrock mining operations and mineral 
exploration activities on public lands 
are codified in Part 3809 of Title 43 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations and are commonly 
referred to as ‘‘3809 Regulations’’; and 

Whereas, The Bureau of Land Management 
initiated the revision of these regulations in 
January 1997; and 

Whereas, In response to concerns raised by 
the Western Governor’s Association and a 
group of 15 United States Senators, including 
Nevada Senators Harry Reid and Richard H. 
Bryan, Congress included language in the 
Omnibus Appropriations Act of 1998 to require 
a detailed, comprehensive study by the 
National Academy of Science of the environmental 
and reclamation requirements for 
mining on federal lands and the adequacy of 
those requirements to prevent undue degradation, 
and prohibited final revision to the 
3809 Regulations before September 30, 1999; 
and 

Whereas, Contrary to the requirements of 
the Omnibus Appropriations Act, the Secretary 
of the Interior is moving forward with 
revisions to the 3809 Regulations and to the 
Environmental Impact Statement; and 

Whereas, Under the Bureau of Land Management’s 
most recent revisions, every western 
state, including Nevada, may be faced 
with the choice of either expending substantial 
resources to revise its regulations to 
conform with the new requirements of the 
Bureau of Land Management or having the 
successful programs of the State of Nevada, 
which have been carefully tested and enforced 
over the years, simply cease to be operative 
on public lands, thereby imposing 
significantly detrimental impacts on the 
mineral industry and the State of Nevada; 
now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, by the Assembly and Senate of the 
State of Nevada, Jointly, That the members of 
the 70th session of the Nevada Legislature do 
hereby urge the Secretary of the Interior to 
comply with the intent of Congress as stated 
in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 1998 
which requires a study of the issue by the 
National Academy of Sciences and prohibits 
final revision of 43 C.F.R. Part 3809, the 3809 
Regulations, before September 30, 1999; and 
be it further 

Resolved, That the Nevada Legislature 
strongly supports Alternative 1, the ‘‘No Action’’ 
alternative, as described in the draft 
Environmental Impact Statement on Surface 
Management Regulations and Locatable 
Mineral Operations, to maintain the existing 
3809 Regulations without revision or modification; 
and be it further 

Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly 
prepare and transmit a copy of this 
resolution to the Vice President of the 
United States as the presiding officer of the 
Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
the Secretary of the Interior 
and each member of the Nevada Congressional 
Delegation; and be it further 

Resolved, That this resolution becomes effective 
upon passage and approval. 

POM–169. A resolution adopted by the Legislature 
of the State of Nebraska relative to 
the use of phosphide gas in grain storage; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

LEGISLATIVE RESOLUTION 43 
Whereas, Nebraska’s agricultural heritage 
and economy is dependent upon the harvest, 
storage, and transportation of grain; and 

Whereas, there are 357 grain elevators with 
663 million bushels of storage and 55,000 
farms with 1.02 billion bushels of storage in 
Nebraska; and 

Whereas, Nebraska grain elevators are valued 
neighbors to and located in close proximity 
to homes, schools, farms, and businesses 
in most of all Nebraska’s communities; 
and 

Whereas, Nebraska grain elevators, feed 
mills, processors, and growers are committed 
to protecting the health and safety of applicators 
and workers and to the well-being of 
the public; and 

Whereas, grain elevators are located in Nebraska 
communities near railroads and highways 
to facilitate the transportation of 
grain; and 

Whereas, Nebraska is a leader in the nation 
and in the world in grain production; 
and 

Whereas, Nebraska grain elevators, feed 
mills, processors, and growers are committed 
to producing an adequate, safe, and high 
quality food supply for domestic and world 
consumers; and 

Whereas, treaties and established trade relations 
may require pest-controlled grain before 
grain can be exported; and 

Whereas, insect pests in grain without fumigation 
treatment could create health 
risks and reduce the quality of the grain 
marketed from Nebraska; and 

Whereas, aluminum and magnesium 
phosphide gas are cost-effective fumigants 
used both by commercial elevators and farmers 
in the storage of grains in Nebraska; and 

Whereas, the federal Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) acknowledges few, if 
any, viable alternatives to the use of aluminum 
and magnesium phosphide gas exist 
for fumigation to control pests in stored 
grain; and 

Whereas, the current label restrictions for 
aluminum and magnesium phosphide gas 
provide for the safe and effective use of the 
product; and 

Whereas, the State of Nebraska practices 
rigorous enforcement of the label restrictions 
on fumigants, ensures adequate training 
of certified applicators, and conducts a 
fumigation and grain storage project to inspect 
the use of fumigants; and 

Whereas, restrictions in the use of fumigants 
in grain storage and transport should 
be based only on sound scientific reasoning, 
available technology, and analysis of risk 
level and avoid raising undue public alarm 
over unsubstantiated or inconsequential 
risk: Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved by the members of the ninety-sixty 
legislature of Nebraska, first session, That the 
Congress of the United States direct the federal 
Environmental Protection Agency to 
curtail implementation of new restrictions 
from its Reregistration Eligibility Decision 
(RED) on phosphide gas that would require a 
500-foot buffer zone and other restrictions 
that effectively preclude the use of aluminum 
or magnesium phosphide in most of 
Nebraska’s grain storage facilities and grain 
transportation; and be it further 

Resolved, That the Congress of the United 
States direct the federal Environmental Protection 
Agency to ensure that risk mitigation 
allowances for aluminum or magnesium 
phosphide are clearly demonstrated as necessary 
to protect human health, are based 
upon sound science and reliable information, 
are economically and operationally reasonable, 
and will permit the use of these products 
in accordance with the label. 

POM–170. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Colorado relative 
to a pay increase for Members of Congress; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 

SENATE JOINT MEMORIAL 99–005 
Whereas, The twenty-seventh amendment 
to the constitution of the United States, also 


S6710 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

known as ‘‘The Madison Amendment’’, pro-Washington, in legislative session assembled, and second time by unanimous con


vides that ‘‘No law, varying the compensation 
for the services of the Senators and Representatives, 
shall take effect until an election 
of Representatives shall have intervened.’’; 
and 

Whereas, The twenty-seventh amendment 
requires that an intervening election be held 
between the enactment of any congressional 
pay increase and its subsequent application 
to any member of Congress; and 

Whereas, The twenty-seventh amendment’s 
requirement for an intervening election is 
intended to allow voters in each state and 
congressional district to obtain direct information 
regarding salary increases prior to 
the reelection of incumbents or the election 
of others in their stead; and 

Whereas, Salary increases for members of 
Congress currently are regulated by ‘‘The 
Government Ethics Reform Act of 1989,’’ 
(‘‘The Act’’) pursuant to 2 U.S.C. sec. 31; and 

Whereas, The Act gives members of Congress 
an immediate one-time salary increase 
and, in subsequent years, an annual cost of 
living adjustment increase to salaries or 
pensions; and 

Whereas, Such annual cost of living adjustment 
is established in accordance with federal 
law and incorporated in an executive 
order of the President in December of each 
year to establish salary increases that are 
put into effect on January 1 of the next year; 
and 

Whereas, Through the automatic operation 
of the cost of living adjustment provisions, 
congressional salaries have been increased 
on the first day of January for several years; 
and 

Whereas, Without the action of legislation, 
each Congress effectively and automatically 
enacts for itself a cost of living adjustment 
salary increase in violation of the twenty-
seventh amendment; and 

Whereas, When each year’s cost of living 
adjustment increase is paid on the following 
January 1 to members of Congress, former 
members, or spouses of deceased members 
without the process of an intervening election, 
the twenty-seventh amendment is violated; 
now, therefore be it 

Resolved by the Senate of the Sixty-second 
General Assembly of the State of Colorado, (the 
House of Representatives concurring herein), 
That the General Assembly hereby expresses 
its opposition to automatic annual cost of 
living adjustment salary increases for members 
of Congress of the United States as violative 
of the twenty-seventh amendment to 
the United States Constitution and hereby 
memorializes the Congress to refrain from 
enacting any pay increase for members of 
Congress without an affirmative vote or that 
takes effect before the following Congress 
has been elected and fully sworn into office; 
and be it further 

Resolved, That copies of this Memorial be 
sent to the President of the United States, 
the President of the Senate and the Speaker 
of the House of Representatives of the Congress 
of the United States, and to each member 
of the Congressional delegation representing 
the state of Colorado. 

POM–171. A joint resolution adopted by the 
Legislature of the State of Washington relative 
to immigration laws, policies and practices; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 

HOUSE JOINT MEMORIAL 4015 
To the Honorable William J. Clinton, 
President of the United States, and to the 
President of the Senate and the Speaker of 
the House of Representatives, and to the 
Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States, in Congress assembled: 
We, your Memorialists, the Senate and 

respectfully represent and petition as follows: 


Whereas, The Anti-Terrorism and Effective 
Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA) and the 
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant 
Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA) represent 
the most dramatic changes in immigration 
law in more than 30 years; and 

Whereas, These acts mandate that the Immigration 
and Naturalization Service (INS) 
arrest, detain, and deport large segments of 
the United States immigrant population and 
the implementation of these laws has had 
far-reaching effects, including unnecessary 
financial burdens on the state’s legal, social, 
and welfare systems; and 

Whereas, The United States has long been 
known as a nation of immigrants, as a champion 
of human rights for all peoples, and as 
a country that holds justice and equality 
under the law among its highest ideals, especially 
equal justice under law; and 

Whereas, Immigrant detainees may have 
been legal permanent residents who have 
lived almost their entire lives in the United 
States, served in the United States military, 
have a United States citizen spouse, or have 
United States citizen children; and 

Whereas, Detainees, including women and 
children, are frequently in INS custody for 
periods longer than seventy-two hours and 
are especially vulnerable within the INS system; 
and 

Whereas, Families consisting of both legal 
and illegal family members are often divided 
causing not only emotional and psychological 
hardship when mothers are separated 
from their children, but also financial difficulties 
resulting in increased welfare rolls 
when primary wage earners are removed 
from their jobs; 

Now, therefore, Your Memorialists respectfully 
pray that the President, the Congress, 
and the appropriate agencies continue to 
look closely at current immigration law and 
INS policies and practices, and that necessary 
changes be made so that problems 
surrounding immigration may be resolved as 
soon as possible; and be it 

Resolved, That copies of this Memorial be 
immediately transmitted to the Honorable 
William J. Clinton, President of the United 
States, the President of the United States 
Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 
each member of Congress from 
the State of Washington, Doris Meissner, 
Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service, and Gary Locke, the Governor 
of the State of Washington. 

f 


REPORTS OF COMMITTEES 
The following reports of committees 
were submitted: 
By Mr. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute: 

S. 323. A bill to redesignate the Black Canyon 
of the Gunnison National Monument as 
a national park and establish the Gunnison 
Gorge National Conservation Area, and for 
other purposes (Rept. No. 106–69). 
By Mr. WARNER, from the Committee on 
Armed Services, without amendment: 

S. 1009. An original bill to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2000 for intelligence 
and intelligence-related activities of the 
United States Government, the Community 
Management Account, and the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability 
System, and for other purposes. 
f 


INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 
The following bills and joint resolu


sent, and referred as indicated: 
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN: 

S. 1188. A bill to provide grants to State 
educational agencies and local educational 
agencies for the provision of classroom-related 
technology training for elementary and 
secondary school teachers; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 
f 


STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mrs. FEINSTEIN: 

S. 1188. A bill to provide grants to 
State educational agencies and local 
educational agencies for the provision 
of classroom-related technology training 
for elementary and secondary 
school teachers; to the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 
TEACHER TECHNOLOGY TRAINING ACT 

Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, 
today I am introducing legislation to 
help teachers use technology in their 
teaching, the Teacher Technology 
Training Act of 1999. 

This bill has three major provisions: 

It authorizes $500 million for state 
education departments to award grants 
to local public school districts on the 
basis of need to train teachers in how 
to use technology in the classroom. 

It specifies that grants may be used 
to strengthen instruction and learning, 
provide professional development, and 
pay the costs of teacher training in 
using technology in the classroom. 

It requires the Secretary of Education 
to evaluate the technology 
training programs for teachers developed 
by school districts within three 
years. 

I am introducing this bill because 
teachers say they need to learn how to 
use computers and other technology in 
their teaching. In a 1998 survey conducted 
by the U.S. Department of Education, 
only 20 percent of teachers said 
they felt ‘‘well prepared’’ to integrate 
educational technology into instruction. 


Furthermore, the training that does 
exist for these teachers is inadequate. 
In the same Department of Education 
survey, among full-time, public school 
teachers, 78 percent said they had participated 
in professional development 
programs on using educational technology 
in their instruction, but only 23 
percent of those teachers said they felt 
‘‘well prepared’’ in this area. Of the 
teachers who report having received 
some training, 40 percent felt that it 
had improved their classroom teaching 
only ‘‘somewhat’’ or ‘‘not at all.’’ This 
is unacceptable. What we see now is 
that in many schools the students 
know more about how to use computers 
than the teachers do. In one 
Kentucky school profiled by Inside 
Technology Training magazine, the 
students run the school’s computer 
systems. The article quoted the school 
district’s technology coordinator as 
saying that the students had ‘‘long sur-

House of Representatives of the State of tions were introduced, read the first passed’’ what the teachers could do and 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6711 

reported that one student had recently 
trained twenty teachers on software 
for Web page construction (‘‘Fast 
Times at Kentucky High,’’ Inside Technology 
Training, June 1998). 

I see this problem in my own state. A 
report by the Los Angeles County Office 
of Education in 1996 found that in 
Los Angeles County, nearly half of the 
teachers had no experience with computers 
or had only limited familiarity 
with word processing software. According 
to a 1998 report by the California 
Teachers Association, teachers in California 
rank training in the use of new 
technology fourth among eighteen 
changes they believe could most improve 
public education. Forty-five percent 
of the teachers surveyed said more 
technology training would greatly improve 
conditions for teaching and 
learning (CTA for the Next Century, 
1998). 

It is crucial that we given students 
the opportunity to become familiar 
with technology in their classrooms because 
post-high school education and 
most good jobs require experience 
using computers. U.S. Commerce Secretary 
William M. Daley has said, ‘‘Opportunities 
are now dependent upon a 
person’s ability to use computers and 
engage in using the Internet’’ (CQ 
Weekly, ‘‘Digital Haves and Have 
Nots,’’ April 17, 1999). In my state, a 
1997 Rand report found that there is 
currently a shift in the state’s economy 
away from manufacturing and toward 
higher-skill service and technology 
industries, and employers are 
placing a higher premium on the computer 
skills necessary for these positions 
(Immigration in a Changing 
Economy, Rand, 1997). Students are 
better educated when their teachers 
are well trained. We cannot prepare 
students for the increasingly technological 
workplace without trained 
teachers. 

We have made great efforts to make 
technology available to students in 
their classrooms, and now we have a 
national student to computer ratio of 
10 to 1. Seventy-eight percent of our 
nation’s schools have Internet access. 
These are good first steps. 

But also essential is having teachers 
and students use all this technology in 
their day-to-day classroom activities 
when it can enhance learning. This will 
not happen until teachers are trained 
in how to include technology in their 
instruciton. 

One teacher expressed her frustration 
in an article in the National School 
Boards Association’s Electronic School 
magazine: 

Most teachers have no model to show them 
the advantages of hooking up to the projects 
available on the Internet. And shrinking 
school budgets don’t provide nearly enough 
money to train teachers in new or visionary 
techniques. Meanwhile, we can’t escape the 
magazine and newspaper articles touting the 
Information Superhighway and heralding 
new ways of responding to, using, and learning 
information in our society. Well, who 
most needs to learn to traverse this road 
successfully? Society future leaders—and 

their teachers (Electronic School, ‘‘Going 
Global,’’ February 1995). 
I agree. 

Our teachers are not prepared to use 
technology in their classrooms. Students 
need to learn to use modern technology 
and it can help them learn. If 
we are expecting teachers to use up-todate 
methods and tools, we must train 
them to do so. This bill will provide 
some of the funds needed to do that. 

By introducing this bill I am not suggesting 
that technology is a cure-all 
for the problems in our schools. Technology 
is one of many teaching and 
learning tools. It can bring some efficiencies 
to learning, for example, providing 
a new way to do math and spelling 
drills or keeping students engaged 
in learning while a teacher works with 
other students who need extra help. It 
can also be an important research tool 
by providing easy access to information 
that, without a computer, is not 
easily available. 

We expect a great deal from our 
teachers and students. We must give 
them the resources they need. This bill 
is one step. 

f 


ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 37 

At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 37, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to repeal the restriction 
on payment for certain hospital 
discharges to post-acute care imposed 
by section 4407 of the Balanced 
Budget Act of 1997. 
S. 216 

At the request of Mr. MOYNIHAN, the 
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
MACK) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
216, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to repeal the limitation 
on the use of foreign tax credits 
under the alternative minimum tax. 

S. 296 

At the request of Mr. FRIST, the 
name of the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. BUNNING) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 296, a bill to provide for continuation 
of the Federal research investment 
in a fiscally sustainable way, and 
for other purposes. 

S. 337 

At the request of Mr. HUTCHINSON, 
the name of the Senator from Kansas 
(Mr. BROWNBACK) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 337, a bill to preserve the 
balance of rights between employers, 
employees, and labor organizations 
which is fundamental to our system of 
collective bargaining while preserving 
the rights of workers to organize, or 
otherwise engage in concerted activities 
protected under the National 
Labor Relations Act. 

S. 345 

At the request of Mr. ALLARD, the 
name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. LIEBERMAN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 345, a bill to amend the 
Animal Welfare Act to remove the lim


itation that permits interstate movement 
of live birds, for the purpose of 
fighting, to States in which animal 
fighting is lawful. 

S. 348 

At the request of Ms. SNOWE, the 
name of the Senator from Rhode Island 
(Mr. CHAFEE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 348, a bill to authorize and facilitate 
a program to enhance training, research 
and development, energy conservation 
and efficiency, and consumer 
education in the oilheat industry for 
the benefit of oilheat consumers and 
the public, and for other purposes. 

S. 459 

At the request of Mr. BREAUX, the 
name of the Senator from New York 
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 459 a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase 
the State ceiling on private activity 
bonds. 

S. 512 

At the request of Mr. GORTON, the 
name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. ROTH) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 512, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act to provide for the 
expansion, intensification, and coordination 
of the activities of the Department 
of Health and Human Services 
with respect to research on autism. 
S. 541 

At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the 
name of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. DASCHLE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 541, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to 
make certain changes related to payments 
for graduate medical education 
under the medicare program. 

S. 590 

At the request of Mr. FEINGOLD, the 
name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. JEFFORDS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 590, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the 
percentage depletion allowance for certain 
hardrock mines, and for other purposes. 


S. 600 

At the request of Mr. WELLSTONE, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
SNOWE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
600, a bill to combat the crime of international 
trafficking and to protect the 
rights of victims. 

S. 625 

At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
CRAPO was added as a cosponsor of S. 
625, a bill to amend title 11, United 
States Code, and for other purposes. 

S. 632 

At the request of Mr. DEWINE the 
name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 632, a bill to provide assistance for 
poison prevention and to stabilize the 
funding of regional poison control centers. 
S. 642 

At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
COVERDELL) was added as a cosponsor 


S6712 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

of S. 642, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for 
Farm and Ranch Risk Management Accounts, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 659 
At the request of Mr. MOYNIHAN, the 
name of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. JOHNSON) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 659, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to require 
pension plans to provide adequate 
notice to individuals whose future benefit 
accruals are being significantly reduced, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 662 
At the request of Mr. CHAFEE, the 
name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. BAUCUS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 662, a bill to amend title XIX of 
the Social Security Act to provide 
medical assistance for certain women 
screened and found to have breast or 
cervical cancer under a federally funded 
screening program. 
S. 664 
At the request of Mr. CHAFEE, the 
name of the Senator from Nevada (Mr. 
BRYAN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
664, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide a credit 
against income tax to individuals who 
rehabilitate historic homes or who are 
the first purchasers of rehabilitated 
historic homes for use as a principal 
residence. 
S. 740 
At the request of Mr. CRAIG, the 
name of the Senator from South Carolina 
(Mr. THURMOND) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 740, a bill to amend the 
Federal Power Act to improve the hydroelectric 
licensing process by granting 
the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission statutory authority to 
better coordinate participation by 
other agencies and entities, and for 
other purposes. 
S. 751 
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr. 
ROBB) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
751, a bill to combat nursing home 
fraud and abuse, increase protections 
for victims of telemarketing fraud, enhance 
safeguards for pension plans and 
health care benefit programs, and enhance 
penalties for crimes against seniors, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 777 
At the request of Mr. FITZGERALD, 
the names of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. BURNS), the Senator from 
Alaska (Mr. STEVENS), the Senator 
from Minnesota (Mr. GRAMS), the Senator 
from Alabama (Mr. SESSIONS), and 
the Senator from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 777, a 
bill to require the Department of Agriculture 
to establish an electronic filing 
and retrieval system to enable the public 
to file all required paperwork electronically 
with the Department and to 
have access to public information on 
farm programs, quarterly trade, economic, 
and production reports, and 
other similar information. 

S. 784 

At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the names of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. ABRAHAM) and the Senator 
from Iowa (Mr. GRASSLEY) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 784, a bill to establish 
a demonstration project to study 
and provide coverage of routine patient 
care costs for medicare beneficiaries 
with cancer who are enrolled in an approved 
clinical trial program. 

S. 880 
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the 
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
ROBERTS) and the Senator from South 
Dakota (Mr. JOHNSON) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 880, a bill to amend the 
Clean Air Act to remove flammable 
fuels from the list of substances with 
respect to which reporting and other 
activities are required under the risk 
management plan program. 
S. 897 
At the request of Mr. BAUCUS, the 
names of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. 
MURKOWSKI) and the Senator from 
Washington (Mr. GORTON) were added 
as cosponsors of S.897, a bill to provide 
matching grants for the construction, 
renovation and repair of school facilities 
in areas affected by Federal Activities, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 951 
At the request of Mr. DOMENICI, the 
name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 951, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to establish 
a permanent tax incentive for research 
and development, and for other 
purposes. 
S. 1003 
At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. BOXER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1003, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide 
increased tax incentives for the 
purchase of alternative fuel and electric 
vehicle, and for other purposes. 
S. 1010 
At the request of Mr. JEFFORDS, the 
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
MACK) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1010, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to provide for a medical 
innovation tax credit for clinical 
testing research expenses attributable 
to academic medical centers and other 
qualified hospital research organizations. 
S. 1023 
At the request of Mr. MOYNIHAN, the 
names of the Senator from Maryland 
(Ms. MIKULSKI) and the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. SMITH) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1023, a bill to amend title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act to stabilize 
indirect graduate medical education 
payments. 
S. 1053 
At the request of Mr. BOND, the 
names of the Senator from Georgia 
(Mr. COVERDELL) and the Senator from 
Missouri (Mr. ASHCROFT) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 1053, a bill to amend 

the Clean Air Act to incorporate certain 
provisions of the transportation 
conformity regulations, as in effect on 
March 1, 1999. 

S. 1066 

At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the 
name of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 1066, a bill to amend the National 
Agricultural Research, Extension, and 
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 to encourage 
the use of and research into agricultural 
best practices to improve the 
environment, and for other purposes. 
S. 1067 

At the request of Mr. ROCKEFELLER, 
the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. JEFFORDS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1067, a bill to promote the 
adoption of children with special needs. 

S. 1074 

At the request of Mr. TORRICELLI, the 
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
BROWNBACK) and the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. WARNER) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1074, a bill to amend the 
Social Security Act to waive the 24month 
waiting period for medicare coverage 
of individuals with amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS), and to provide 
medicare coverage of drugs and 
biologicals used for the treatment of 
ALS or for the alleviation of symptoms 
relating to ALS. 

S. 1106 

At the request of Mr. TORRICELLI, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Ms. MIKULSKI) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1106, a bill to amend the Public 
Health Service Act and Employee 
Retirement Income Security Act of 
1974 to require that group and individual 
health insurance coverage and 
group health plans provide coverage for 
qualified individual for bone mass 
measurement (bone density testing) to 
prevent fractures associated with 
osteoporosis. 

S. 1110 

At the request of Mr. LOTT, the name 
of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. DEWINE) 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 1110, a 
bill to amend the Public Health Service 
Act to establish the National Institute 
of Biomedical Imaging and Engineering. 


S. 1128 

At the request of Mr. LOTT, his name 
was added as a cosponsor of S. 1128, a 
bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to repeal the Federal estate 
and gift taxes and the tax on gen-
eration-skipping transfers, to provide 
for a carryover basis at death, and to 
establish a partial capital gains exclusion 
for inherited assets. 

S 1148 

At the request of Mr. DASCHLE, the 
names of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. JOHNSON) and the Senator 
from Nebraska (Mr. HAGEL) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 1148, a bill to provide 
for the Yankton Sioux Tribe and 
the Santee Sioux Tribe of Nebraska 
certain benefits of the Missouri River 
Basin Pick-Sloan project, and for other 
purpose. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6713 

S. 1150 

At the request of Mr. HATCH, the 
names of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. LIEBERMAN) and the Senator from 
Maine (Ms. SNOWE) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1150, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to more 
accurately codify the depreciable life 
of semiconductor manufacturing equipment. 


S. 1177 
At the request of Mr. HARKIN, the 
name of the Senator from North Dakota 
(Mr. DORGAN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1177, a bill to amend the 
Food Security Act of 1985 to permit the 
harvesting of crops on land subject to 
conservation reserve contracts for recovery 
of biomass used in energy production. 
S. 1187 
At the request of Mr. DORGAN, the 
name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. HAGEL) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1187, a bill to require the Secretary 
of the Treasury to mint coins in 
commemoration of the bicentennial of 
the Lewis and Clark Expedition, and 
for other purposes. 

SENATE RESOLUTION 34 

At the request of Mr. TORRICELLI, the 
names of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. ROTH) and the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. COLLINS) were added as cosponsors 
of Senate Resolution 34, a resolution 
designating the week beginning April 
30, 1999, as ‘‘National Youth Fitness 
Week.’’ 

SENATE RESOLUTION 59 

At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
the names of the Senator from Maine 
(Ms. SNOWE), the Senator from Oklahoma 
(Mr. INHOFE), the Senator from 
Oregon (Mr. SMITH), the Senator from 
South Carolina (Mr. THURMOND), and 
the Senator from Nevada (Mr. BRYAN) 
were added as cosponsors of Senate 
Resolution 59, a resolution designating 
both July 2, 1999, and July 2, 2000, as 
‘‘National Literacy Day.’’ 

f 


AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED 

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2000 

BOXER (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 541 

Mrs. BOXER (for herself, Mr. HARKIN, 
Mr. WYDEN, and Mr. FEINGOLD) proposed 
an amendment to the bill (S. 
1122) making appropriations for the Department 
of Defense for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2000, and for 
other purposes; as follows: 

Strike section 8106, and insert the following: 


SEC. 8106. Not later than March 1, 2000, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress 
a report on the inventory and status of 
operational support aircraft, Commander-in-
Chief support aircraft, and command support 
aircraft of the Department of Defense. The 
report shall include a detailed discussion of 
the requirements for such aircraft, the fore


seeable future requirements for such aircraft, 
the cost of leasing such aircraft, commercial 
alternatives to use of such aircraft, 
the cost of maintaining the aircraft, the capability 
and appropriateness of the aircraft 
to fulfill mission requirements, and the relevancy 
of the missions of the aircraft to 
warfighting requirements. 

STEVENS AMENDMENT NO. 542 

Mr. STEVENS proposed an amendment 
to the bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 


In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

‘‘SEC. . In addition to any funds appropriated 
elsewhere in Title IV of this Act 
under the heading ‘‘Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Army’’, $9,000,000 is 
hereby appropriated only for the Army Test 
Ranges and Facilities program element.’’ 

STEVENS AMENDMENT NO. 543 

Mr. STEVENS proposed an amendment 
to the bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . Notwithstanding any other provision 
in this Act, the total amount appropriated 
in this Act for Title IV under the 
heading ‘‘Research, Development, Test, And 
Evaluation, Navy’’, is hereby reduced by 
$26,840,000 and the total amount appropriated 
in this Act for Title IV under the heading 
‘‘Research, Development, Test, And Evaluation, 
Defense-Wide’’, is hereby increased by 
$51,840,000 to reflect the transfer of the Joint 
Warfighting Experimentation program: provided, 
That none of the funds provided for 
the Joint Warfighting Experimentation Program 
may be obligated until the Vice Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff reports to 
the Congressional defense committees on the 
role and participation of all unified and specified 
commands in the JWEP. 

STEVENS AMENDMENT NO. 544 

Mr. STEVENS proposed an amendment 
to the bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 


In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

SEC. . In addition to the amounts appropriated 
or otherwise made available elsewhere 
in this Act for the Department of Defense, 
$23,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2000 is hereby appropriated to 
the Department of Defense: Provided, that 
the Secretary of Defense shall make a grant 
in the amount of $23,000,000 to the American 
Red Cross for Armed Forces Emergency 
Services. 

STEVENS AMENDMENT NO. 545 

Mr. STEVENS proposed an amendment 
to the bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 


At the appropriate place in the bill insert 
the following: 

SEC. . In addition to the funds available 
in Title III, $10,000,000 is hereby appropriated 
for U–2 cockpit modifications. 

f 


Y2K ACT 

DOMENICI AMENDMENT NO. 546 

(Ordered to lie on the table.) 

Mr. DOMENICI submitted an amendment 
intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill (S. 96) to regulate commerce 
between and among the several States 
by providing for the orderly resolution 
of disputes arising out of computer-
based problems related to processing 
data that includes a 2-digit expression 
of that year’s date; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. ll. WAIVER OF SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY FOR 
A Y2K ACTION. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Consent is given to join 
the United States as a necessary party defendant 
in a Y2K action. 
(b) JURISDICTION AND REVIEW.—The United 
States, when a party to any Y2K action— 
(1) shall be deemed to have waived any 
right to plead that it is not amenable thereto 
by reason of its sovereignty; 
(2) shall be subject to judgments, orders, 
and decrees of the court having jurisdiction; 
and 
(3) may obtain review thereof, in the same 
manner and to the same extent as a private 
individual under like circumstances. 
f 


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 

APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2000 

BIDEN (AND OTHERS) AMENDMENT 
NO. 547 

Mr. INOUYE (for Mr. BIDEN (for himself, 
Mr. SCHUMER, and Mr. EDWARDS)) 
proposed an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, AIR FORCE’’, 
$63,041,000 shall be available for C–5 aircraft 
modernization. 

GREGG AMENDMENT NO. 548 

Mr. GREGG proposed an amendment 
to the bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

SEC. lll. PROHIBITION ON USE OF REFUGEE 
RELIEF FUNDS FOR LONG-TERM REGIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT OR RECONSTRUCTION 
IN SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE. 


None of the funds made available in the 
1999 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations 
Act (Public Law 106–31) for emergency 
support of refugees and displaced persons and 
the local communities directly affected by 
the influx of refugees may be made available 
to implement a long-term, regional program 
of development or reconstruction in Southeastern 
Europe except pursuant to specific 
statutory authorization enacted on or after 
the date of enactment of this Act. 

BYRD AMENDMENTS NOS. 549–450 

Mr. BYRD proposed two amendments 
to the bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 549 
On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, 
DEFENSE-WIDE’’ for the Office of 
the Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary 
of Defense for Gulf War Illnesses, 
$10,000,000 shall be available for carrying out 


S6714 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

the first-year actions under the 5-year research 
plan outlined in the report entitled 
‘‘Department of Defense Strategy to Address 
Low-Level Exposures to Chemical Warfare 
Agents (CWAs)’’, dated May 1999, that was 
submitted to committees of Congress pursuant 
to section 247(d) of the Strom Thurmond 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1999 (Public Law 105–261; 112 Stat. 
1957). 

AMENDMENT NO. 550 
On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
III under the heading ‘‘OTHER PROCUREMENT, 
ARMY’’, $51,250,000 shall be available for the 
Information System Security Program, of 
which $10,000,000 shall be available for an immediate 
assessment of biometrics sensors 
and templates repository requirements and 
for combining and consolidating biometrics 
security technology and other information 
assurance technologies to accomplish a more 
focused and effective information assurance 
effort. 

NICKLES AMENDMENT NO. 551 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. NICKLES) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

None of the funds appropriated or otherwise 
made available by this or any other act 
may be made available for reconstruction activities 
in the Republic of Serbia (excluding 
the province of Kosovo) as long as Slobodan 
Milosevic remains the President of the Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). 


INHOFE AMENDMENT NO. 552 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. INHOFE) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

SEC. . The Department of the Army is directed 
to conduct a live fire, side-by-side 
operational test of the air-to-air Starstreak 
and air-to-air Stinger missiles from the AH– 
64D Longbow helicopter. The operational 
test is to be completed utilizing funds provided 
for in this bill in addition to funding 
provided for this purpose in the Fiscal Year 
1999 Defense Appropriations Act (P.L. 105– 
262): Provided, That notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Department is to 
ensure that the development, procurement 
or integration of any missile for use on the 
AH–64 or RAH–66 helicopters, as an air-to-air 
missile, is subject to a full and open competition 
which includes the conduct of a live-
fire, side-by-side test as an element of the 
source selection criteria: Provided further, 
That the Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition 
& Technology) will conduct an independent 
review of the need, and the merits of 
acquiring an air-to-air missile to provide 
self-protection for the AH–64 and RAH–66 
from the threat of hostile forces. The Secretary 
is to provide his findings in a report 
to the Defense Oversight Committees, no 
later than March 31, 2000. 

MACK AMENDMENTS NOS. 553–555 
Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. MACK) proposed 
three amendments to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 
AMENDMENT NO. 553 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOP


MENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION, AIR FORCE’’, 
up to $6,000,000 may be made available for 
the 3–D advanced track acquisition and imaging 
system. 

AMENDMENT NO. 554 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, NAVY’’, up to 
$3,000,000 may be made available for electronic 
propulsion systems. 

AMENDMENT NO. 555 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 
SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘Counter-Drug Activities, 
Defense’’, up to $5,000,000 may be made 
available for a ground processing station to 
support a tropical remote sensing radar. 

BURNS AMENDMENT NO. 556 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. BURNS) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

Insert at the appropriate place in the bill 
the following: 

‘‘SEC. . Of the funds made available under 
the heading ‘‘Research, Development, Test, 
and Evaluation, Army’’; up to $6,000,000 may 
be provided to the U.S. Army Construction 
Engineering Research Laboratory to continue 
research and development to reduce 
pollution associated with industrial manufacturing 
waste systems.’’ 

MCCONNELL AMENDMENT NO. 557 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. MCCONNELL) 
proposed an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in title II 
under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, 
NAVY’’, up to $13,000,000 may be available 
for depot overhaul of the MK-45 weapon 
system, and up to $19,000,000 may be available 
for depot overhaul of the Close In Weapon 
System. 

STEVENS AMENDMENT NO. 558 

Mr. STEVENS proposed an amendment 
to the bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 


At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in Title 
IV under the heading ‘‘Research, Development, 
Test, And Evaluation, Army’’, up to 
$1,500,000 may be available for prototyping 
and testing of a water distributor for the 
Pallet-Loading System Engineer Mission 
Module System. 

BENNETT AMENDMENT NO. 559 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. BENNETT) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill insert 
the following new general provisions: 

SEC. . Of the funds provided under Title 
IV of this Act under Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Air Force’, up to 
$1,000,000 may be made available only for alternative 
missile engine source development. 

HOLLINGS AMENDMENT NO. 560 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. HOLLINGS) 
proposed an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘Research, Development, 
Test, and Evaluation, Army’’, up to 
$3,000,000 may be made available for the National 
Defense Center for Environmental Excellence 
Pollution Prevention Initiative. 

REID AMENDMENT NO. 561 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. REID) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follow: 

In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

‘‘SEC. . Of the funds made available in 
Title IV of this Act under the heading ‘‘Research, 
Development, Test and Evaluation, 
Defense-Wide’’, up to $4,500,000 may be made 
available for a hot gas decontamination facility. 


LIEBERMAN AMENDMENT NO. 562 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. LIEBERMAN) 
proposed an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds made available under 
the heading ‘‘Defense Health Program’’, up 
to $2,000,000 may be made available to support 
the establishment of a DOD Center for 
Medical Informatics. 

REID AMENDMENT NO. 563 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. REID) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in Title 
III under the heading ‘‘PROCUREMENT, 
MARINE CORPS’’, up to $2,800,000 may be 
made available for the K-Band Test Obscuration 
Pairing System. 

KERREY AMENDMENT NO. 564 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. KERREY) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds made available under 
the heading ‘‘Research, Development, Test 
and Evaluation, Army’’, up to $2,000,000 may 
be made available to continue and expand 
on-going work in recombinant vaccine research 
against biological warfare agents. 

LAUTENBERG AMENDMENT NO. 565 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. LAUTENBERG) 
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) The purpose of this section is 
to provide means for the City of Bayonne, 
New Jersey, to furnish fire protection 
through the City’s municipal fire department 
for the tenants, including the Coast 
Guard, and property at Military Ocean Terminal, 
New Jersey, thereby enhancing the 
City’s capability for furnishing safety services 
that is a fundamental capability necessary 
for encouraging the economic development 
of Military Ocean Terminal. 

(b) The Secretary of the Army may, notwithstanding 
title II of the Federal Property 
and Administrative Services Act of 1949, convey 
without consideration to the Bayonne 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6715 

Local Redevelopment Authority, Bayonne, 
New Jersey, and to the City of Bayonne, New 
Jersey, jointly, all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the firefighting 
equipment described in subsection 
(c). 

(c) The equipment to be conveyed under 
subsection (b) is firefighting equipment at 
Military Ocean Terminal, Bayonne, New Jersey, 
as follows: 
(1) Pierce Dash 2000 Gpm Pumper, manufactured 
September 1995. 
(2) Pierce Arrow 100-foot Tower Ladder, 
manufactured February 1994. 
(3) Pierce HAZMAT truck, manufactured 
1993. 
(4) Ford E–350, manufactured 1992. 
(5) Ford E–302, manufactured 1990. 

(6) Bauer Compressor, Bauer–UN 12– 
E#5000psi, manufactured November 1989. 
(d) The conveyance and delivery of the 
property shall be at no cost to the United 
States. 
(e) The Secretary may require such additional 
terms and conditions in connection 
with the conveyance under this section as 
the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States. 
BIDEN AMENDMENT NO. 566 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. BIDEN) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, NAVY’’, up to 
$3,000,000 may be made available for basic research 
on advanced composite materials 
processing (specifically, resin transfer molding, 
vacuum-assisted resin transfer molding, 
and co-infusion resin transfer molding). 

DOMENICI AMENDMENTS NOS. 567– 
568 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. DOMENICI) 
proposed two amendments to the bill S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 567 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 
SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to 
$5,000,000 may be available for Information 
Warfare Vulnerability Analysis. 

AMENDMENT NO. 568 
At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 
SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, AIR FORCE’’, 
up to $7,500,000 may be made available for 
GEO High Resolution Space Object Imaging 
Program. 

WYDEN (AND SMITH) AMENDMENT 
NO. 569 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. WYDEN (for 
himself and Mr. SMITH of Oregon)) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to 
$4,000,000 may be available solely for research, 
development, test, and evaluation of 
elastin-based artificial tissues and dye targeted 
laser fusion techniques for healing internal 
injuries. 

STEVENS AMENDMENT NO. 570 

Mr. STEVENS proposed an amendment 
to the bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 


In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

SEC. . Of the funds made available in Title 
IV of this Act for the Defense Advanced Research 
Projects Agency under the heading 
‘‘Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, 
Defense-Wide’’, up to $20,000,000 may be 
made available for supersonic aircraft noise 
mitigation research and development efforts. 

LEAHY AMENDMENT NO. 571 
Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. LEAHY) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 
On line 22, page 97, insert the following: 

(d) REPORT.—Not more than 15 days after 
the exercise of any waiver under subsection 
(c), the Secretary of Defense shall submit a 
report to the congressional defense committees 
describing the extraordinary circumstances, 
the purpose and duration of the 
training program, the United States forces 
and the foreign security forces involved in 
the training program, and the information 
relating to human rights violations that necessitates 
the waiver. 
SHELBY AMENDMENT NO. 572 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. SHELBY) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . From within the funds provided for 
the Defense Acquisition University, up to 
$5,000,000 may be spent on a pilot program 
using state-of-the-art training technology 
that would train the acquisition workforce 
in a simulated government procurement environment. 


INOUYE AMENDMENT NO. 573 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. INOUYE) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill add the 
following: 

SEC. . During the current fiscal year, 
under regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
of Defense, the Center of Excellence 
for Disaster Management and Humanitarian 
Assistance may also pay, or authorize payment 
for, the expenses of providing or facilitating 
education and training for appropriate 
military and civilian personnel of foreign 
countries in disaster management and 
humanitarian assistance: Provided, That not 
later than April 1, 2001, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report regarding the 
training of foreign personnel conducted 
under this authority during the preceding 
fiscal year for which expenses were paid 
under the section: Provided further, That the 
report shall specify the countries in which 
the training was conducted, the type of 
training conducted, and the foreign personnel 
trained. 

HUTCHISON (AND GRAMM) 
AMENDMENT NO. 574 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mrs. HUTCHISON 
(for herself and Mr. GRAMM)) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of 
this section is to evaluate and demonstrate 
methods for more efficient operation of military 
installations through improved capital 
asset management and greater reliance on 
the public or private sector for less-costly 
base support services, where available. 

(b) AUTHORITY.—(1) The Secretary of the 
Air Force may carry out at Brooks Air Force 
Base, Texas, a demonstration project to be 
known as the ‘‘Base Efficiency Project’’ to 
improve mission effectiveness and reduce the 
cost of providing quality installation support 
at Brooks Air Force Base. 
(2) The Secretary shall carry out the 
Project in consultation with the Community 
to the extent the Secretary determines such 
consultation is necessary and appropriate. 
(3) The authority provided in this section 
is in addition to any other authority vested 
in or delegated to the Secretary, and the 
Secretary may exercise any authority or 
combination of authorities provided under 
this section or elsewhere to carry out the 
purposes of the Project. 
(c) EFFICIENT PRACTICES.—(1) The Secretary 
may convert services at or for the 
benefit of the Base from accomplishment by 
military personnel or by Department civilian 
employees (appropriated fund or non-appropriated 
fund), to services performed by 
contract or provided as consideration for the 
lease, sale, or other conveyance or transfer 
of property. 
(2) Notwithstanding section 2462 of title 10, 
United States Code, a contract for services 
may be awarded based on ‘‘best value’’ if the 
Secretary determines that the award will advance 
the purposes of a joint activity conducted 
under the Project and is in the best 
interest of the Department. 
(3) Notwithstanding that such services are 
generally funded by local and State taxes 
and provided without specific charge to the 
public at large, the Secretary may contract 
for public services at or for the benefit of the 
Base in exchange for such consideration, if 
any, the Secretary determines to be appropriate. 
(4)(A) The Secretary may conduct joint activities 
with the Community, the State, and 
any private parties or entities on or for the 
benefit of the Base. 

(B) Payments or reimbursements received 
from participants for their share of direct 
and indirect costs of joint activities, including 
the costs of providing, operating, and 
maintaining facilities, shall be in an amount 
and type determined to be adequate and appropriate 
by the Secretary. 
(C) Such payments or reimbursements received 
by the Department shall be deposited 
into the Project Fund. 
(d) LEASE AUTHORITY.—(1) The Secretary 
may lease real or personal property located 
on the Base to any lessee upon such terms 
and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate 
and in the interest of the United 
States, if the Secretary determines that the 
lease would facilitate the purposes of the 
Project. 
(2) Consideration for a lease under this subsection 
shall be determined in accordance 
with subsection (g). 
(3) A lease under this subsection— 
(A) may be for such period as the Secretary 
determines is necessary to accomplish the 
goals of the Project; and 
(B) may give the lessee the first right to 
purchase the property if the lease is terminated 
to allow the United States to sell the 
property under any other provision of law. 
(4)(A) The interest of a lessee of property 
leased under this subsection may be taxed by 
the State or the Community. 

(B) A lease under this subsection shall provide 
that, if and to the extent that the leased 
property is later made taxable by State governments 
or local governments under Federal 
law, the lease shall be renegotiated. 

S6716 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

(5) The Department may furnish a lessee 
with utilities, custodial services, and other 
base operation, maintenance, or support 
services, in exchange for such consideration, 
payment, or reimbursement as the Secretary 
determines appropriate. 
(6) All amounts received from leases under 
this subsection shall be deposited into the 
Project Fund. 
(7) A lease under this subsection shall not 
be subject to the following provisions of law: 
(A) Section 2667 of title 10, United States 
Code, other than subsection (b)(1) of that 
section. 
(B) Section 321 of the Act of June 30, 1932 
(40 U.S.C. 303b). 
(C) The Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et 
seq.). 
(e) PROPERTY DISPOSAL.—(1) The Secretary 
may sell or otherwise convey or transfer real 
and personal property located at the Base to 
the Community or to another public or private 
party during the Project, upon such 
terms and conditions as the Secretary considers 
appropriate for purposes of the 
Project. 
(2) Consideration for a sale or other conveyance 
or transfer or property under this 
subsection shall be determined in accordance 
with subsection (g). 
(3) The sale or other conveyance or transfer 
of property under this subsection shall 
not be subject to the following provisions of 
law: 
(A) Section 2693 of title 10, United States 
Code. 
(B) The Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et 
seq.) 
(4) Cash payments received as consideration 
for the sale or other conveyance or 
transfer of property under this subsection 
shall be deposited into the Project Fund. 
(f) LEASEBACK OF PROPERTY LEASED OR 
DISPOSED.—(1) The Secretary may lease, sell, 
or otherwise convey or transfer real property 
at the Base under subsections (b) and (e), as 
applicable, which will be retained for use by 
the Department or by another military department 
or other Federal agency, if the lessee, 
purchaser, or other grantee or transferee 
of the property agrees to enter into a leaseback 
to the Department in connection with 
the lease, sale, or other conveyance or transfer 
of one or more portions or all of the property 
leased, sold, or otherwise conveyed or 
transferred, as applicable. 
(2) A leaseback of real property under this 
subsection shall be an operating lease for no 
more than 20 years unless the Secretary of 
Defense determines that a longer term is appropriate. 
(3)(A) Consideration, if any, for real property 
leased under a leaseback entered into 
under this subsection shall be in such form 
and amount as the Secretary considers appropriate. 


(B) The Secretary may use funds in the 
Project Fund or other funds appropriated or 
otherwise available to the Department for 
use at the Base for payment of any such cash 
rent. 
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Department or other military department 
or other Federal agency using the 
real property leased under a leaseback entered 
into under this subsection may construct 
and erect facilities on or otherwise 
improve the leased property using funds appropriated 
or otherwise available to the Department 
or other military department or 
other Federal agency for such purpose. 
Funds available to the Department for such 
purpose include funds in the Project Fund. 
(g) CONSIDERATION.—(1) The Secretary shall 
determine the nature, value, and adequacy of 
consideration required or offered in exchange 
for a lease, sale, or other conveyance or 
transfer of real or personal property or for 
other actions taken under the Project. 

(2) Consideration may be in cash or in-kind 
or any combination thereof. In-kind consideration 
may include the following: 
(A) Real property. 
(B) Personal property. 
(C) Goods or services, including operation, 
maintenance, protection, repair, or restoration 
(including environmental restoration) 
of any property or facilities (including non-
appropriated fund facilities). 
(D) Base operating support services. 
(E) Construction or improvement of Department 
facilities. 
(F) Provision of facilities, including office, 
storage, or other usable space, for use by the 
Department on or off the Base. 
(G) Public services. 
(3) Consideration may not be for less than 
the fair market value. 
(h) PROJECT FUND.—(1) There is established 
on the books of the Treasury a fund to be 
known as the ‘‘Base Efficiency Project 
Fund’’ into which all cash rents, proceeds, 
payments, reimbursements, and other 
amounts from leases, sales, or other conveyances 
or transfers, joint activities, and all 
other actions taken under the Project shall 
be deposited. All amounts deposited into the 
Project Fund are without fiscal year limitation. 
(2) Amounts in the Project Fund may be 
used only for operation, base operating support 
services, maintenance, repair, construction, 
or improvement of Department facilities, 
payment of consideration for acquisitions 
of interests in real property (including 
payment of rentals for leasebacks), and environmental 
protection or restoration, in addition 
to or in combination with other 
amounts appropriated for these purposes. 
(3) Subject to generally prescribed financial 
management regulations, the Secretary 
shall establish the structure of the Project 
Fund and such administrative policies and 
procedures as the Secretary considers necessary 
to account for and control deposits 
into and disbursements from the Project 
Fund effectively. 
(4) All amounts in the Project Fund shall 
be available for use for the purposes authorized 
in paragraph (2) at the Base, except that 
the Secretary may redirect up to 50 per cent 
of amounts in the Project Fund for such uses 
at other installations under the control and 
jurisdiction of the Secretary as the Secretary 
determines necessary and in the best 
interest of the Department. 
(i) FEDERAL AGENCIES.—(1)(A) Any Federal 
agency, its contractors, or its grantees shall 
pay rent, in cash or services, for the use of 
facilities or property at the Base, in an 
amount and type determined to be adequate 
by the Secretary. 
(B) Such rent shall generally be the fair 
market rental of the property provided, but 
in any case shall be sufficient to compensate 
the Base for the direct and overhead costs incurred 
by the Base due to the presence of the 
tenant agency on the Base. 
(2) Transfers of real or personal property at 
the Base to other Federal agencies shall be 
at fair market value consideration. Such 
consideration may be paid in cash, by appropriation 
transfer, or in property, goods, or 
services. 
(3) Amounts received from other Federal 
agencies, their contractors, or grantees, including 
any amounts paid by appropriation 
transfer, shall be deposited in the Project 
Fund. 
(j) ACQUISITION OF INTERESTS IN REAL PROPERTY.—(
1) The Secretary may acquire any interest 
in real property in and around the 
Community that the Secretary determines 
will advance the purposes of the Project. 
(2) The Secretary shall determine the value 
of the interest in the real property to be acquired 
and the consideration (if any) to be 
offered in exchange for the interest. 
(3) The authority to acquire an interest in 
real property under this subsection includes 
authority to make surveys and acquire such 
interest by purchase, exchange, lease, or gift. 
(4) Payments for such acquisitions may be 
made from amounts in the Project Fund or 
from such other funds appropriated or otherwise 
available to the Department for such 
purposes. 
(k) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—(1) Section 2662 
of title 10, United States Code, shall not 
apply to transactions at the Base during the 
Project. 
(2)(A) Not later than March 1 each year, 
the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on 
any transactions at the Base during the preceding 
fiscal year that would be subject to 
such section 2662, but for paragraph (1). 

(B) The report shall include a detailed cost 
analysis of the financial savings and gains 
realized through joint activities and other 
actions under the Project authorized by this 
section and a description of the status of the 
Project. 
(l) LIMITATION.—None of the authorities in 
this section shall create any legal rights in 
any person or entity except rights embodied 
in leases, deeds, or contracts. 
(m) EXPIRATION OF AUTHORITY.—The authority 
to enter into a lease, deed, permit, license, 
contract, or other agreement under 
this section shall expire on September 30, 
2004. 
(n) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) The term ‘‘Project’’ means the Base Efficiency 
Project authorized by this section. 
(2) The term ‘‘Base’’ means Brooks Air 
Force Base, Texas. 
(3) The term ‘‘Community’’ means the City 
of San Antonio, Texas. 
(4) The term ‘‘Department’’ means the Department 
of the Air Force. 
(5) The term ‘‘facility’’ means a building, 
structure, or other improvement to real 
property (except a military family housing 
unit as that term is used in subchapter IV of 
chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code). 
(6) The term ‘‘joint activity’’ means an activity 
conducted on or for the benefit of the 
Base by the Department, jointly with the 
Community, the State, or any private entity, 
or any combination thereof. 
(7) The term ‘‘Project Fund’’ means the 
Base Efficiency Project Fund established by 
subsection (h). 
(8) The term ‘‘public services’’ means public 
services (except public schools, fire protection, 
and police protection) that are funded 
by local and State taxes and provided 
without specific charge to the public at 
large. 
(9) The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary 
of the Air Force or the Secretary’s 
designee, who shall be a civilian official of 
the Department appointed by the President 
with the advice and consent of the Senate. 
(10) The term ‘‘State’’ means the State of 
Texas. 
GORTON AMENDMENT NO. 575 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. GORTON) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, 
$4,000,000 shall be made available for the Advanced 
Integrated Helmet System Program. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6717 

LOTT AMENDMENT NO. 576 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. LOTT) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert: 

Office of Net Assessment in the Office of 
the Secretary of Defense, jointly with the 
United States Pacific Command, shall submit 
a report to Congress no later than 180 
days after the enactment of this act which 
addresses the following issues: 

1. A review and evaluation of the operational 
planning and other preparations of 
the U.S. Defense Department, including but 
not limited to the U.S. Pacific Command, to 
implement the relevant sections of the Taiwan 
Relations Act since its enactment in 
1979. 
2. A review and evaluation of all gaps in 
relevant knowledge about the current and 
future military balance between Taiwan and 
mainland China, including but not limited to 
Chinese open source writings. 
3. A set of recommendations, based on 
these reviews and evaluations, concerning 
further research and analysis that the Office 
of Net Assessment and the Pacific Command 
believe to be necessary and desirable to be 
performed by the National Defense University 
and other defense research centers. 
DOMENICI AMENDMENT NO. 577 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. DOMENICI) 
proposed an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

On page 106, line 4, strike ‘‘The Communications 
Act’’ and insert ‘‘(a) The Communications 
Act of 1934’’. 

On page 107, between lines 4 and 5, insert 
the following: 

(b)(1) Not later than 15 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget and 
the Federal Communications Commission 
shall each submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report which shall— 

(A) set forth the anticipated schedule (including 
specific dates) for— 
(i) preparing and conducting the competitive 
bidding process required by subsection 
(a); and 
(ii) depositing the receipts of the competitive 
bidding process; 
(B) set forth each significant milestone in 
the rulemaking process with respect to the 
competitive bidding process; 
(C) include an explanation of the effect of 
each requirement in subsection (a) on the 
schedule for the competitive bidding process 
and any post-bidding activities (including 
the deposit of receipts) when compared with 
the schedule for the competitive bidding and 
any post-bidding activities (including the deposit 
of receipts) that would otherwise have 
occurred under section 337(b)(2) of the Communications 
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 337(b)(2)) if 
not for the enactment of subsection (a); 
(D) set forth for each spectrum auction 
held by the Federal Communications Commission 
since 1993 information on— 
(i) the time required for each stage of preparation 
for the auction; 
(ii) the date of the commencement and of 
the completion of the auction; 
(iii) the time which elapsed between the 
date of the completion of the auction and the 
date of the first deposit of receipts from the 
auction in the Treasury; and 
(iv) the dates of all subsequent deposits of 
receipts from the auction in the Treasury; 
and 
(E) include an assessment of how the 
stages of the competitive bidding process required 
by subsection (a), including preparation, 
commencement and completion, and 
deposit of receipts, will differ from similar 
stages in the auctions referred to in subparagraph 
(D). 

(2) Not later than October 5, 2000, the Director 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget and the Federal Communications 
Commission shall each submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees the report 
which shall— 
(A) describe the course of the competitive 
bidding process required by subsection (a) 
through September 30, 2000, including the 
amount of any receipts from the competitive 
bidding process deposited in the Treasury as 
of September 30, 2000; and 
(B) if the course of the competitive bidding 
process has included any deviations from the 
schedule set forth under paragraph (1)(A), an 
explanation for such deviations from the 
schedule. 
(3) The Federal Communications Commission 
may not consult with the Director in 
the preparation and submittal of the reports 
required of the Commission by this subsection. 
(4) In this subsection, the term ‘‘appropriate 
congressional committees’’ means the 
following: 
(A) The Committees on Appropriations, the 
Budget, and Commerce of the Senate. 
(B) The Committees on Appropriations, the 
Budget, and Commerce of the House of Representatives. 
ROBERTS AMENDMENT NO. 578 
Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. ROBERTS) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 
At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. EXTENSION OF AGRICULTURE EXPORT 

RELIEF ACT OF 1998 AND INDIA


PAKISTAN RELIEF ACT OF 1998. 

(a) EXTENSION OF AGRICULTURE EXPORT RELIEF 
ACT OF 1998.—Section 2 of the Agriculture 
Export Relief Act of 1998 (Public Law 
105–194; 112 Stat. 627) is amended by striking 
‘‘September 30, 1999’’ each place it appears 
and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2002’’. 
(b) EXTENSION OF INDIA-PAKISTAN RELIEF 
ACT OF 1998.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 902(a) of the 
India-Pakistan Relief Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 
2799aa–1 note) is amended by striking ‘‘for a 
period not to exceed one year upon enactment 
of this Act’’ and inserting ‘‘for a period 
not to exceed September 30, 2002’’. 
(2) REPORT.—Section 904 of such Act is 
amended by striking ‘‘a one-year period described 
in section 902’’ and inserting ‘‘the 
first year following the date of enactment of 
this Act and annually thereafter’’. 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments 
made by this section shall take effect on the 
earlier of the date of enactment of this Act 
or September 30, 1999. 
DURBIN AMENDMENT NO. 579 

Mr. INOUYE (for Mr. DURBIN) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 


SEC. . (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be 
used to carry out any conveyance of land at 
the former Fort Sheridan, Illinois, Unless 
such conveyance is consistent with a regional 
agreement among the communities 
and jurisdictions in the vicinity of Fort 
Sheridan and in accordance with section 2862 
of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1996 (division B of Public 
Law 104–106; 110 Stat. 573). 

(2) The land referred to in paragraph (1) is 
a parcel of real property, including any improvements 
thereon, located at the former 
Fort Sheridan, Illinois, consisting of approximately 
14 acres, and known as the 
northern Army Reserve enclave area, that is 
covered by the authority in section 2862 of 
the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 1996 and has not been conveyed 
pursuant to that authority as of the 
date of enactment of this Act. 
BINGAMAN AMENDMENT NO. 580 

Mr. INOUYE (for Mr. BINGAMAN) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) Congress makes the following 
findings: 

(1) Congress recognizes and supports, as 
being fundamental to the national defense, 
the ability of the Armed Forces to test weapons 
and weapon systems thoroughly, and to 
train members of the Armed Forces in the 
use of weapons and weapon systems before 
the forces enter hostile military engagements. 
(2) It is the policy of the United States 
that the Armed Forces at all times exercise 
the utmost degree of caution in the testing 
of weapons and weapon systems in order to 
avoid endangering civilian populations and 
the environment. 
(3) In the adherence to these policies, it is 
essential to the public safety that the Armed 
Forces not test weapons or weapon systems, 
or engage in training exercises with live ammunition, 
in close proximity to civilian populations 
unless there is no reasonable alternative 
available. 
(b) It is the sense of Congress that— 
(1) there should be a thorough and independent 
investigation of the circumstances 
that led to the accidental death of a civilian 
employee of the Navy installation in 
Vieques, Puerto Rico, and the wounding of 
four other civilians during a live-ammunition 
weapons test at Vieques, including a reexamination 
of the adequacy of the measures 
that are in place to protect the civilian population 
during such testing and of the extent 
to which the civilian population at the site 
can be adequately protected during such 
testing; 
(2) the President should not authorize the 
Navy to resume live ammunition testing on 
the Island of Vieques, Puerto Rico, unless 
and until he has advised the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives that— 
(A) there is not available an alternative 
testing site with no civilian population located 
in close proximity; 
(B) the national security of the United 
States requires that the testing be carried 
out despite the potential risks to the civilian 
population; 
(C) measures to provide the utmost level of 
safety to the civilian population are to be in 
place and maintained throughout the testing; 
and 
(D) in the event that testing resumes, 
measures are to be taken to protect the Island 
of Vieques and the surrounding area 
from environmental degradation, including 
possible environmental harm, that might result 
from the testing of ammunition containing 
radioactive materials; and 
(3) in addition to advising committees of 
Congress of the findings as described in paragraph 
(2), the President should advise the 
Governor of Puerto Rico of those findings 
and, if the President decides to resume live-
ammunition weapons testing on the Island of 
Vieques, consult with the Governor on a regular 
basis regarding the measures being 

S6718 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

taken from time to time to protect civilians 
from harm from the testing. 

INOUYE AMENDMENT NO. 581 

Mr. INOUYE proposed an amendment 
to the bill S. 1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert: 

SECTION 1. FEDERAL HEALTH CARE PARTNERSHIP. 


SEC. . (a) The Department of Defense is 
authorized to enter into agreements with the 
Veterans Administration and Federally-
funded health agencies providing services to 
Native Hawaiians for the purpose of establishing 
a partnership similar to the Alaska 
Federal Health Care Partnership, in order to 
maximize Federal resources in the provision 
of health care services by Federally-funded 
health agencies, applying telemedicine technologies. 
For the purpose of this partnership, 
Native Hawaiians shall have the same status 
as other Native Americans who are eligible 
for the health care services provided by the 
Indian Health Service. 

(b) The Department of Defense is authorized 
to develop a consultation policy, consistent 
with Executive Order 13084 (issued 
May 14, 1998), with Native Hawaiians for the 
purpose of assuring maximum Native Hawaiian 
participation in the direction and administration 
of governmental services as to 
render those services more responsive to the 
needs of the Native Hawaiian community. 
(c) For purposes of these sections, the term 
‘‘Native Hawaiian’’ means any individual 
who is a descendant of the aboriginal people 
who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised 
sovereignty in the area that now comprises 
the State of Hawaii’’. 
KENNEDY AMENDMENT NO. 582 

Mr. INOUYE (for Mr. KENNEDY) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

Of the funds appropriated in title III, Procurement, 
under the heading ‘‘MISSILE PROCUREMENT, 
ARMY’’, up to $35,000,000 may be 
made available to retrofit and improve the 
current inventory of Patriot missiles in 
order to meet current and projected threats 
from cruise missiles. 

LEVIN AMENDMENT NO. 583 

Mr. INOUYE (for Mr. LEVIN) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end of the bill, add the following 
new section: 

SEC. . Notwithstanding any other provision 
in this Act, the total amount appropriated 
in Title IV of this act under Research, 
Development, Test, and Evaluation, 
Defense-Wide, is hereby reduced by 
$200,000,000: Provided, That not more than 
$836,555,000 of the funds provided under this 
Act may be obligated for National Missile 
Defense programs: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision in this 
Act, the total amount appropriated in this 
Act for Aircraft Procurement, Army is hereby 
increased by $56,100,000 for re-engining of 
the CH–47 helicopter, Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any other provision in this 
Act, the total amount appropriated in this 
Act for Missile Procurement, Army is hereby 
increased by $98,400,000 for advance procurement 
of the Javelin missile; Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision in 
this Act, the total amount appropriated in 
this Act for Procurement of Weapons and 
Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army is hereby 

increased by $20,000,000 for procurement of 
the Field Artillery Ammunition Supply Vehicle, 
Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision in this Act, the total 
amount appropriated in this Act for Other 
Procurement, Army is hereby increased by 
$25,500,000 for procurement of SINCGARS radios. 


MCCAIN AMENDMENTS NOS. 584–585 
Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. MCCAIN) proposed 
two amendments to the bill 

S. 1122, supra; as follows: 
AMENDMENT NO. 584 
Strike section 8108, and insert the following: 
SEC. 8108. Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this Act, the total amount appropriated 
in this Act by titles III, IV, and VI is 
hereby reduced by $3,100,000,000, the reductions 
to be derived from appropriations as 
follows: 

(1) From Operation and Maintenance, 
Army, $27,000,000. 
(2) From Operation and Maintenance, 
Navy, $36,000,000. 
(3) From Operation and Maintenance, Marine 
Corps, $10,200,000. 
(4) From Operation and Maintenance, Air 
Force, $61,800,000. 
(5) From Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide, $78,900,000. 
(6) From Operation and Maintenance, 
Army National Guard, $53,500,000. 
(7) From Operation and Maintenance, Air 
National Guard, $2,900,000. 
(8) From Aircraft Procurement, Army, 
$178,000,000. 
(9) From Procurement of Weapons and 
Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army, $26,400,000. 
(10) From Procurement of Ammunition, 
Army, $37,500,000. 
(11) From Other Procurement, Army, 
$135,500,000. 
(12) From Aircraft Procurement, Navy, 
$69,000,000. 
(13) From Weapons Procurement, Navy, 
$54,400,000. 
(14) From Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
Navy, $317,500,000. 
(15) From Other Procurement, Navy, 
$67,800,000. 
(16) From Procurement, Marine Corps, 
$54,900,000. 
(17) From Aircraft Procurement, Air Force, 
$164,500,000. 
(18) From Missile Procurement, Air Force, 
$25,400,000. 
(19) From Procurement of Ammunition, 
Air Force, $5,100,000. 
(20) From Other Procurement, Air Force, 
$53,400,000. 
(21) From Procurement, Defense-Wide, 
$73,000,000. 
(22) From National Guard and Reserve 
Equipment, $190,500,000. 
(23) From Research, Development, Test, 
and Evaluation, Army, $249,100,000. 
(24) From Research, Development, Test, 
and Evaluation, Navy, $288,700,000. 
(25) From Research, Development, Test, 
and Evaluation, Air Force, $263,300,000. 
(26) From Research, Development, Test, 
and Evaluation, Defense-Wide, $287,900,000. 
(27) From Defense Health Program, 
$226,200,000. 
(28) From Drug Interdiction and Counter-
Drug Activities, Defense, $61,600,000. 
AMENDMENT NO. 585 
At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. (a) Subject to subsection (c) and 
except as provided in subsection (d), the Secretary 
of Defense may waive any domestic 
source requirement or domestic content re


quirement referred to in subsection (b) and 
thereby authorize procurements of items 
that are grown, reprocessed, reused, produced, 
or manufactured— 

(1) inside a foreign country the government 
of which is a party to a reciprocal defense 
memorandum of understanding that is entered 
into with the Secretary of Defense and 
is in effect; 
(2) inside the United States or its possessions; 
or 
(3) inside the United States or its possessions 
partly or wholly from components 
grown, reprocessed, reused, produced, or 
manufactured outside the United States or 
its possessions. 
(b) For purposes of this section: 
(1) A domestic source requirement is any 
requirement under law that the Department 
of Defense must satisfy its needs for an item 
by procuring an item that is grown, reprocessed, 
reused, produced, or manufactured in 
the United States, its possessions, or a part 
of the national technology and industrial 
base. 
(2) A domestic content requirement is any 
requirement under law that the Department 
must satisfy its needs for an item by procuring 
an item produced or manufactured 
partly or wholly from components grown, reprocessed, 
reused, produced, or manufactured 
in the United States or its possessions. 
(c) The authority to waive a requirement 
under subsection (a) applies to procurements 
of items if the Secretary of Defense first determines 
that— 
(1) the application of the requirement to 
procurements of those items would impede 
the reciprocal procurement of defense items 
under a memorandum of understanding providing 
for reciprocal procurement of defense 
items that is entered into between the Department 
of Defense and a foreign country in 
accordance with section 2531 of title 10, 
United States Code; 
(2) the foreign country does not discriminate 
against items produced in the United 
States to a greater degree than the United 
States discriminates against items produced 
in that country; and 
(3) one or more of the conditions set forth 
in section 2534(d) of title 10, United States 
Code, exists with respect to the procurement. 
(d) LAWS NOT WAIVED.—The Secretary of 
Defense may not exercise the authority 
under subsection (a) to waive any of the following 
laws: 
(1) The Small Business Act. 
(2) The Javits-Wagner-O’Day Act (41 U.S.C. 
46–48c). 
(3) Sections 7309 and 7310 of title 10, United 
States Code, with respect to ships in Federal 
Supply Class 1905. 
(4) Section 9005 of Public Law 102–396 (10 
U.S.C. 2241 note), with respect to articles or 
items of textiles, apparel, shoe findings, 
tents, and flags listed in Federal Supply 
Classes 8305, 8310, 8315, 8320, 8335, 8340, and 
8345 and articles or items of clothing, 
footware, individual equipment, and insignia 
listed in Federal Supply Classes 8405, 8410, 
8415, 8420, 8425, 8430, 8435, 8440, 8445, 8450, 8455, 
8465, 8470, and 8475. 
(e) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER WAIVER AU-
THORITY.—The authority under subsection 
(a) to waive a domestic source requirement 
or domestic content requirement is in addition 
to any other authority to waive such requirement. 
SHELBY AMENDMENT NO. 586 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. SHELBY) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6719 

In Title IV, under Research, Development, 
Test, and Evaluation, Army, add the following: 


‘‘Of the funds appropriated for research, 
development, test and evaluation Army, up 
to $10 million may be utilized for Army 
Space Control Technology.’’ 

BOND (AND ASHCROFT) 
AMENDMENT NO. 587 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. BOND (for 
himself and Mr. DOMENICI)) proposed an 
amendment to the bill, S. 1122, supra; 
as follows: 

In the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

‘‘SEC. . In addition to funds appropriated 
elsewhere in this Act, the amount appropriated 
in Title III of this Act under the 
heading ‘‘Aircraft Procurement, Air Force’’ 
is hereby increased by $220,000,000 only to 
procure four (4) F–15E aircraft; Provided, that 
the amount provided in Title IV of this Act 
under the heading ‘‘Research, Development, 
Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide’’ is hereby 
reduced by $50,000,000 to reduce the total 
amount available for National Missile Defense; 
Provided further, that the amount provided 
in Title III of this Act under the heading 
‘‘National Guard and Reserve Equipment’’ 
is hereby reduced by $50,000,000 on a 
pro-rata basis; Provided further, that the 
amount provided in Title III of this Act 
under the heading ‘‘Aircraft Procurement, 
Air Force’’ is hereby reduced by $70,000,000 to 
reduce the total amount available for Spares 
and Repair Parts; Provided further, that the 
amount provided in Title III of this Act 
under the heading ‘‘Aircraft Procurement, 
Navy’’ is hereby reduced by $50,000,000 to reduce 
the total amount available for Spares 
and Repair Parts. 

KOHL AMENDMENT NO. 588 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. KOHL) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) Of the amounts appropriated 
by title II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION 
AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE’’, up to 
$220,000 may be made available to carry out 
the study described in subsection (b). 

(b)(1) The Secretary of the Army, acting 
through the Chief of Engineers, shall carry 
out a study for purposes of evaluating the 
cost-effectiveness of various technologies 
utilized, or having the potential to be utilized, 
in the demolition and cleanup of facilities 
contaminated with chemical residue at 
facilities used in the production of weapons 
and ammunition. 

(2) The Secretary shall carry out the study 
at the Badger Army Ammunition Plant, Wisconsin. 
(3) The Secretary shall provide for the carrying 
out of work under the study through 
the Omaha District Corps of Engineers and 
in cooperation with the Department of Energy 
Federal Technology Center, Morgan-
town, West Virginia. 
(4) The Secretary may make available to 
other departments and agencies of the Federal 
Government information developed as a 
result of the study. 
LOTT (AND COCHRAN) 
AMENDMENT NO. 589 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. LOTT (for 
himself and Mr. COCHRAN)) proposed an 
amendment to the bill S.1122, supra; as 
follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill insert 
the following: 

SEC. . Of the total amount appropriated in 
this Act for RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT 
TEST AND EVALUATION, NAVY shall be 
increased by $3,800,000 to continue research 
and development on polymer cased ammunition. 


GRAHAM AMENDMENT NO. 590 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. GRAHAM) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) Of the funds appropriated in 
title II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND 
MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE’’ (other than the 
funds appropriated for space launch facilities), 
$7,300,000 shall be available, in additional 
to other funds appropriated under 
that heading for space launch facilities, for a 
second team of personnel for space launch facilities 
for range reconfiguration to accommodate 
launch schedules. 

(b) The funds set aside under subsection (a) 
may not be obligated for any purpose other 
than the purpose specified in subsection (a). 
VOINOVICH AMENDMENT NO. 591 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. VOINOVICH) 
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following new section: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in this 
Act under the heading ‘‘Operation and Maintenance, 
Army’’, up to $500,000 may be available 
for a study of the costs and feasibility of 
a project to remove ordnance from the Toussaint 
River. 

SANTORUM (AND OTHERS) 
AMENDMENT NO. 592 

STEVENS (for Mr. SANTORUM (for 
himself, Mr. BOND, and Mr. SPECTER)) 
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, 
AIR FORCE’’, up to $4,000,000 may be 
made available for the Manufacturing Technology 
Assistance Pilot Program. 

HELMS AMENDMENT NO. 593 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. HELMS) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, ARMY’’, up to 
$5,000,000 may be available for visual display 
performance and visual display environmental 
research and development. 

BYRD AMENDMENTS NOS. 594–595 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. BYRD) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

AMENDMENT NO. 594 
On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
III under the heading ‘‘OTHER PROCUREMENT, 
ARMY’’, $51,250,000 shall be available for the 

Information System Security Program, of 
which up to $10,000,000 may be made available 
for an immediate assessment of biometrics 
sensors and templates repository requirements 
and for combining and consolidating 
biometrics security technology and 
other information assurance technologies to 
accomplish a more focused and effective information 
assurance effort. 

AMENDMENT NO. 595 
On page 107, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 
SEC. 8109. Of the funds appropriated in title 
II under the heading ‘‘OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, 
DEFENSE-WIDE’’ for the Office of 
the Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary 
of Defense for Gulf War Illnesses, up 
to $10,000,000 may be made available for carrying 
out the first-year actions under the 5year 
research plan outlined in the report entitled 
‘‘Department of Defense Strategy to 
Address Low-Level Exposures to Chemical 
Warfare Agents (CWAs)’’, dated May 1999, 
that was submitted to committees of Congress 
pursuant to section 247(d) of the Strom 
Thurmond National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105–261; 
112 Stat. 1957). 

ASHCROFT (AND BOND) 
AMENDMENT NO. 596 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. ASHCROFT (for 
himself and Mr. BOND)) proposed an 
amendment to the bill, S. 1122, supra; 
as follows: 

At the end of the general provisions, add 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. (a) Congress makes the following 
findings: 

(1) The B–2 bomber has been used in combat 
for the first time in Operation Allied 
Force against Yugoslavia. 
(2) The B–2 bomber has demonstrated unparalleled 
strike capability in Operation Allied 
Force, with cursory data indicating that 
the bomber could have dropped nearly 20 percent 
of the precision ordnance while flying 
less than 3 percent of the attack sorties. 
(3) According to the congressionally mandated 
Long Range Air Power Panel, ‘‘long 
range air power is an increasingly important 
element of United States military capability’’. 
(4) The crews of the B–2 bomber and the 
personnel of Whiteman Air Force Base, Missouri, 
deserve particular credit for flying and 
supporting the strike missions against Yugoslavia, 
some of the longest combat missions 
in the history of the Air Force. 
(5) The bravery and professionalism of the 
personnel of Whiteman Air Force Base have 
advanced American interests in the face of 
significant challenge and hardship. 
(6) The dedication of those who serve in the 
Armed Forces, exemplified clearly by the 
personnel of Whiteman Air Force Base, is the 
greatest national security asset of the 
United States. 
(b) It is the sense of Congress that— 
(1) the skill and professionalism with 
which the B–2 bomber has been used in Operation 
Allied Force is a credit to the personnel 
of Whiteman Air Force Base, Missouri, 
and the Air Force; 
(2) the B–2 bomber has demonstrated an 
unparalleled capability to travel long distances 
and deliver devastating weapons payloads, 
proving its essential role for United 
States power projection in the future; and 
(3) the crews of the B–2 bomber and the 
personnel of Whiteman Air Force Base deserve 
the gratitude of the American people 
for their dedicated performance in an indispensable 
role in the air campaign against 
Yugoslavia and in the defense of the United 
States. 

S6720 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

SMITH AMENDMENT NO. 597 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. SMITH of New 
Hampshire) proposed an amendment to 
the bill S. 1122, supra; as follows: 

In the appropriate page in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in Title 
III under the heading ‘‘Aircraft Procurement, 
Air Force,’’ up to $10,000,000 may be 
made available for U–2 aircraft defensive system 
modernization. 

HARKIN AMENDMENT NO. 598 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. HARKIN) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8104. Of the amount appropriated in 
title IV under the heading ‘‘RESEARCH DEVELOPMENT, 
TEST, AND EVALUATION, DEFENSE-
WIDE’’, $25,185,000 shall be available 
for research and development relating to 
Persian Gulf illnesses, of which $4,000,000 
shall be available for continuation of research 
into Gulf War syndrome that includes 
multidisciplinary studies of fibromyalgia, 
chronic fatigue syndrome, multiple chemical 
sensitivity, and the use of research methods 
of cognitive and computational neuroscience, 
and of which up to $2,000,000 may be 
made available for expansion of the research 
program in the Upper Great Plains region. 

GRAHAM AMENDMENT NO. 599 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. GRAHAM) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. 8109. Of the total amount appropriated 
in title III under the heading ‘‘AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, 
AIR FORCE’’, up to $17,500,000 may 
be made available for procurement of the F– 
15A/B data link for the Air National Guard. 

COLLINS AMENDMENT NO. 600 

Mr. STEVENS (for Ms. COLLINS) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert 
the following: 

SEC. . Of the funds appropriated in Title 
III under the heading ‘‘WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, 
NAVY’’, up to $3,000,000 may be 
made available for the MK–43 Machine Gun 
Conversion Program. 

INOUYE AMENDMENT NO. 601 

Mr. SPECTER (for Mr. INOUYE) proposed 
an amendment to the bill S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, insert: 

SEC. . DEVELOPMENT OF FORD ISLAND, HAWAII. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—(1) Subject to paragraph 
(2), the Secretary of the Navy may exercise 
any authority or combination of authorities 
in this section for the purpose of developing 
or facilitating the development of Ford Island, 
Hawaii, to the extent that the Secretary 
determines the development is compatible 
with the mission of the Navy. 
(2) The Secretary may not exercise any authority 
under this section until— 
(A) the Secretary submits to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a master plan 
for the development of Ford Island; and 
(B) a period of 30 calendar days has elapsed 
following the date on which the notification 
is received by those committees. 
(b) CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY.—(1) The Secretary 
of the Navy may convey to any public 
or private person or entity all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to 
any real property (including any improvements 
thereon) or personal property under 
the jurisdiction of the Secretary in the State 
of Hawaii that the Secretary determines— 
(A) is excess to the needs of the Navy and 
all of the other Armed Forces; and 
(B) will promote the purpose of this section. 
(2) A conveyance under this subsection 
may include such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States. 
(c) LEASE AUTHORITY.—(1) The Secretary of 
the Navy may lease to any public or private 
person or entity any real property or personal 
property under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary in the State of Hawaii that the 
Secretary determines— 
(A) is not needed for current operations of 
the Navy and all of the other Armed Forces; 
and 
(B) will promote the purpose of this section. 
(2) A lease under this subsection shall be 
subject to section 2667(b)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, and may include such others 
terms as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States. 
(3) A lease of real property under this subsection 
may provide that, upon termination 
of the lease term, the lessee shall have the 
right of first refusal to acquire the real property 
covered by the lease if the property is 
then conveyed under subsection (b). 
(4)(A) The Secretary may provide property 
support services to or for real property 
leased under this subsection. 

(B) To the extent provided in appropriations 
Acts, any payment made to the Secretary 
for services provided under this paragraph 
shall be credited to the appropriation, 
account, or fund from which the cost of providing 
the services was paid. 
(d) ACQUISITION OF LEASEHOLD INTEREST BY 
SECRETARY.—(1) The Secretary of the Navy 
may acquire a leasehold interest in any facility 
constructed under subsection (f) as 
consideration for a transaction authorized 
by this section upon such terms as the Secretary 
considers appropriate to promote the 
purpose of this section. 
(2) The term of a lease under paragraph (1) 
may not exceed 10 years, unless the Secretary 
of Defense approves a term in excess 
of 10 years for the purpose of this section. 
(3) A lease under this subsection may provide 
that, upon termination of the lease 
term, the United States shall have the right 
of first refusal to acquire the facility covered 
by the lease. 
(e) REQUIREMENT FOR COMPETITION.—The 
Secretary of the Navy shall use competitive 
procedures for purposes of selecting the recipient 
of real or personal property under 
subsection (b) and the lessee of real or personal 
property under subsection (c). 
(f) CONSIDERATION.—(1) As consideration 
for the conveyance of real or personal property 
under subsection (b), or for the lease of 
real or personal property under subsection 
(c), the Secretary of the Navy shall accept 
cash, real property, personal property, or 
services, or any combination thereof, in an 
aggregate amount equal to not less than the 
fair market value of the real or personal 
property conveyed or leased. 
(2) Subject to subsection (i), the services 
accepted by the Secretary under paragraph 
(1) may include the following: 
(A) The construction or improvement of facilities 
at Ford Island. 
(B) The restoration or rehabilitation of 
real property at Ford Island. 
(C) The provision of property support services 
for property or facilities at Ford Island. 
(g) NOTICE AND WAIT REQUIREMENTS.—The 
Secretary of the Navy may not carry out a 
transaction authorized by this section 
until— 
(1) the Secretary submits to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a notification 
of the transaction, including— 
(A) a detailed description of the transaction; 
and 
(B) a justification for the transaction 
specifying the manner in which the transaction 
will meet the purpose of this section; 
and 
(2) a period of 30 calendar days has elapsed 
following the date on which the notification 
is received by those committees. 
(h) FORD ISLAND IMPROVEMENT ACCOUNT.— 
(1) There is established on the books of the 
Treasury an account to be known as the 
‘‘Ford Island Improvement Account’’. 
(2) There shall be deposited into the account 
the following amounts: 
(A) Amounts authorized and appropriated 
to the account. 
(B) Except as provided in subsection 
(c)(4)(B), the amount of any cash payment 
received by the Secretary for a transaction 
under this section. 
(i) USE OF ACCOUNT.—(1) Subject to paragraph 
(2), to the extent provided in advance 
in appropriation Acts, funds in the Ford Island 
Improvement Account may be used as 
follows: 
(A) To carry out or facilitate the carrying 
out of a transaction authorized by this section. 
(B) To carry out improvements of property 
or facilities at Ford Island. 
(C) To obtain property support services for 
property or facilities at Ford Island. 
(2) To extent that the authorities provided 
under subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, 
United States Code, are available to the Secretary 
of the Navy, the Secretary may not 
use the authorities in this section to acquire, 
construct, or improve family housing units, 
military unaccompanied housing units, or 
ancillary supporting facilities related to 
military housing at Ford Island. 
(3)(A) The Secretary may transfer funds 
from the Ford Island Improvement Account 
to the following funds: 

(i) The Department of Defense Family 
Housing Improvement Fund established by 
section 2883(a)(1) of title 10, United States 
Code. 
(ii) The Department of Defense Military 
Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund 
established by section 2883(a)(2) of that title. 
(B) Amounts transferred under subparagraph 
(A) to a fund referred to in that subparagraph 
shall be available in accordance 
with the provisions of section 2883 of title 10, 
United States Code, for activities authorized 
under subchapter IV of chapter 169 of that 
title at Ford Island. 
(j) INAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROPERTY 
MANAGEMENT LAWS.—Except as otherwise 
provided in this section, transactions under 
this section shall not be subject to the following: 
(1) Sections 2667 and 2696 of title 10, United 
States Code. 
(2) Section 501 of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11411). 
(3) Sections 202 and 203 of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act of 
1949 (40 U.S.C. 483, 484). 
(k) SCORING.—Nothing in this section shall 
be construed to waive the applicability to 
any lease entered into under this section of 
the budget scorekeeping guidelines used to 
measure compliance with the Balanced 
Budget Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985. 
(l) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 
2883(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended— 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6721 

(1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end 
the following new subparagraph: 
‘‘(E) Any amounts that the Secretary of 
the Navy transfers to that Fund pursuant to 
section 2862(i)(3)(A)(i) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2000, subject to the restrictions on the use of 
the transferred amounts specified in that 
section.’’; and 

(2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end 
the following new subparagraph: 
‘‘(E) Any amounts that the Secretary of 
the Navy transfers to that Fund pursuant to 
section 2862(i)(3)(A)(ii) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2000, subject to the restrictions on the use of 
the transferred amounts specified in that 
section.’’. 

(m) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(1) The term ‘‘appropriate committees of 
Congress’’ has the meaning given that term 
in section 2801(4) of title 10, United States 
Code. 
(2) The term ‘‘property support service’’ 
means the following: 
(A) Any utility service or other service 
listed in section 2686(a) of title 10, United 
States Code. 
(B) Any other service determined by the 
Secretary to be a service that supports the 
operation and maintenance of real property, 
personal property, or facilities. 
BROWNBACK AMENDMENT NO. 602 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. BROWNBACK) 
proposed an amendment to amendment 
No. 578 proposed by Mr. ROBERTS to the 
bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 

In lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted 
by the amendment, insert the following: 


TITLE—-SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN SANC


TIONS AGAINST INDIA AND PAKISTAN 
SEC. l1. SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Effective for the period of 
five years commencing on the date of enactment 
of this Act, the sanctions contained in 
the following provisions of law shall not 
apply to India and Pakistan with respect to 
any grounds for the imposition of sanctions 
under those provisions arising prior to that 
date: 
(1) Section 101 of the Arms Export Control 
Act (22 U.S.C. 2799aa). 
(2) Section 102 of the Arms Export Control 
Act (22 U.S.C. 2799aa–1) other than subsection 
(b)(2)(B), (C), or (G). 
(3) Section 2(b)(4) of the Export Import 
Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(4)). 
(b) SPECIAL RULE FOR COMMERCIAL EXPORTS 
OF DUAL-USE ARTICLES AND TECHNOLOGY.— 
The sanction contained in section 
102(b)(2)(G) of the Arms Export Control Act 
(22 U.S.C. 2799aa–1(b)(2)(G)) shall not apply to 
India or Pakistan with respect to any 
grounds for the imposition of that sanction 
arising prior to the date of enactment of this 
Act if imposition of the sanction (but for 
this paragraph) would deny any license for 
the export of any dual-use article, or related 
dual-use technology (including software), 
listed on the Commerce Control List of the 
Export Administration Regulations that 
would not contribute directly to missile development 
or to a nuclear weapons program. 
For purposes of this subsection, an article or 
technology that is not primarily used for 
missile development or nuclear weapons programs. 
(c) NATIONAL SECURITY INTERESTS WAIVER 
OF SANCTIONS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The restriction on assistance 
in section 102(b)(2)(B), (C), or (G) of the 
Arms Export Control Act shall not apply if 
the President determines, and so certifies to 
Congress, that the application of the restriction 
would not be in the national security interests 
of the United States. 

(2) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense of 
the Senate that— 
(A) no waiver under paragraph (1) should 
be invoked for section 102(b)(2)(B) or (C) of 
the Arms Export Control Act with respect to 
any party that initiates or supports activities 
that jeopardize peace and security in 
Jammu and Kashmir; 
(B) The broad application of export controls 
to nearly 300 Indian and Pakistani entities 
is inconsistent with the specific national 
security interest of the United States and 
that this control list requires refinement. 
(C) export controls should be applied only 
to those Indian and Pakistani entities that 
make direct and material contributions to 
weapons of mass destruction and missile programs 
and only to those items that can contribute 
such programs. 
(d) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—Not later 
than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the President shall submit a report 
to the appropriate congressional committees 
listing those Indian and Pakistani entities 
whose activities contribute directly and materially 
to missile programs or weapons of 
mass destruction programs. 
(e) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—A license 
for the export of a defense article, defense 
service, or technology is subject to the 
same requirements as are applicable to the 
export of items described in section 36(c) of 
the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
2776(c)), including the transmittal of information 
and the application of congressional 
review procedures described in that section. 
(f) RENEWAL OF SUSPENSION.—Upon the expiration 
of the initial five-year period of suspension 
of the sanctions contained in paragraph 
(1) or (2) of subsection (a), the President 
may renew the suspension with respect 
to India, Pakistan, or both for additional periods 
of five years each if, not less than 30 
days prior to each renewal of suspension, the 
President certifies to the appropriate congressional 
committees that it is in the national 
interest of the United States to do so. 
(g) RESTRICTION.—The authority of subsection 
(a) may not be used to provide assistance 
under chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2346 et seq.; 
relating to economic support fund assistance) 
except for— 
(1) assistance that supports the activities 
of nongovernmental organizations; 
(2) assistance that supports democracy or 
the establishment of democratic institutions; 
or 
(3) humanitarian assistance. 
(h) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in 
this Act prohibits the imposition of sanctions 
by the President under any provision of 
law specified in subsection (a) or (b) by reason 
of any grounds for the imposition of 
sanctions under that provision of law arising 
on or after the date of enactment of this Act. 
SEC. l2. REPEALS. 

The following provisions of law are repealed: 


(1) Section 620E(e) of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2375(e)). 
(2) The India-Pakistan Relief Act (title IX 
of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 1999, as contained in 
section 101(a) of Public Law 105–277). 
SEC. l3. APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES 
DEFINED. 

In this title, the term ‘‘appropriate congressional 
committees’’ means the Committee 
on Foreign Relations of the Senate 
and the Committee on International Relations 
of the House of Representatives. 

BIDEN AMENDMENT NO. 603 
Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. BIDEN) proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 
In amendment No. 547, on page 1, line 5, 
strike ‘‘shall’’ and insert ‘‘may’’. 

DOMENICI AMENDMENT NO. 604 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. DOMENICI) 
proposed an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

On page 106, line 4, strike ‘‘The Communications 
Act’’ and insert ‘‘(a) The Communications 
Act of 1934’’. 

On page 107, between lines 4 and 5, insert 
the following: 

(b)(1) Not later than 15 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget and 
the Federal Communications Commission 
shall each submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report which shall— 

(A) set forth the anticipated schedule (including 
specific dates) for— 
(i) preparing and conducting the competitive 
bidding process required by subsection 
(a); and 
(ii) depositing the receipts of the competitive 
bidding process; 
(B) set forth each significant milestone in 
the rulemaking process with respect to the 
competitive bidding process; 
(C) include an explanation of the effect of 
each requirement in subsection (a) on the 
schedule for the competitive bidding process 
and any post-bidding activities (including 
the deposit of receipts) when compared with 
the schedule for the competitive bidding and 
any post-bidding activities (including the deposit 
of receipts) that would otherwise have 
occurred under section 337(b)(2) of the Communications 
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 337(b)(2)) if 
not for the enactment of subsection (a); 
(D) set forth for each spectrum auction 
held by the Federal Communications Commission 
since 1993 information on— 
(i) the time required for each stage of preparation 
for the auction; 
(ii) the date of the commencement and of 
the completion of the auction; 
(iii) the time which elapsed between the 
date of the completion of the auction and the 
date of the first deposit of receipts from the 
auction in the Treasury; and 
(iv) the dates of all subsequent deposits of 
receipts from the auction in the Treasury; 
and 
(E) include an assessment of how the 
stages of the competitive bidding process required 
by subsection (a), including preparation, 
commencement and completion, and 
deposit of receipts, will differ from similar 
stages in the auctions referred to in subparagraph 
(D). 
(2) Not later than October 5, 2000, the Director 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget and the Federal Communications 
Commission shall each submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees the report 
which shall— 
(A) describe the course of the competitive 
bidding process required by subsection (a) 
through September 30, 2000, including the 
amount of any receipts from the competitive 
bidding process deposited in the Treasury as 
of September 30, 2000; and 
(B) if the course of the competitive bidding 
process has included any deviations from the 
schedule set forth under paragraph (1)(A), an 
explanation for such deviations from the 
schedule. 
(3) The Federal Communications Commission 
may not consult with the Director in 
the preparation and submittal of the reports 
required of the Commission by this subsection. 

S6722 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

(4) In this subsection, the term ‘‘appropriate 
congressional committees’’ means the 
following: 
(A) The Committees on Appropriations, the 
Budget, and Commerce of the Senate. 
(B) The Committees on Appropriations, the 
Budget, and Commerce of the House of Representatives. 
COVERDELL (AND KERREY) 
AMENDMENT NO. 605 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. COVERDELL, 
for himself and Mr. KERREY), proposed 
an amendment to the bill, S. 1122, 
supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert: 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the following 
findings: 
(1) On June 25, 1996, a bomb detonated not 
more than 80 feet from the Air Force housing 
complex known as Khobar Towers in 
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, killing 19 members 
of the Air Force, and injuring hundreds 
more; 
(2) An FBI investigation of the bombing, 
soon to enter its fourth year, has not yet determined 
who was responsible for the attack; 
and 
(3) The Senate in S. Res. 273 in the 104th 
Congress condemned this terrorist attack in 
the strongest terms and urged the United 
States Government to use all reasonable 
means available to the Government of the 
United States to punish the parties responsible 
for the bombings. 
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense 
of the Senate that: 
(1) The United States Government must 
continue its investigation into the Khobar 
Towers bombing until every terrorist involved 
is identified, held accountable, and 
punished; 
(2) The FBI, together with the Department 
of State, should report to Congress no later 
than December 31, 1999, on the status of its 
investigation into the Khobar Towers bombing; 
and 
(3) Once responsibility for the attack has 
been established the United States Government 
must take steps to punish the parties 
involved. 
DOMENICI AMENDMENT NO. 606 

Mr. STEVENS (for Mr. DOMENICI) 
proposed an amendment to the bill, S. 
1122, supra; as follows: 

On page 102, between lines 12 and 13, insert 
the following: 

TITLE IX—McGREGOR RANGE LAND 
WITHDRAWAL 

SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the ‘‘McGregor 
Range Withdrawal Act’’. 

SEC. 902. DEFINITIONS. 

In this title: 

(1) The term ‘‘Materials Act’’ means the 
Act of July 31, 1947 (commonly known as the 
Materials Act of 1947; 30 U.S.C. 601–604). 
(2) The term ‘‘management plan’’ means 
the natural resources management plan prepared 
by the Secretary of the Army pursuant 
to section 9005(e). 
(3) The term ‘‘withdrawn lands’’ means the 
lands described in subsection (d) of section 
9003 that are withdrawn and reserved under 
section 9003. 
(4) The term ‘‘withdrawal period’’ means 
the period specified in section 9007(a). 
SEC. 9003. WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION OF 
LANDS AT MCGREGOR RANGE, NEW 
MEXICO. 

(a) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing 
rights, and except as otherwise provided in 
this title, the Federal lands at McGregor 
Range in the State of New Mexico that are 
described in subsection (d) are hereby withdrawn 
from all forms of appropriation under 
the public land laws, including the mining 
laws, but not the Materials Act. 

(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the withdrawal 
is to support military training and 
testing, all other uses of the withdrawn 
lands shall be secondary in nature. 
(c) RESERVATION.—The withdrawn lands 
are reserved for use by the Secretary of the 
Army for military training and testing. 
(d) LAND DESCRIPTION.—The lands withdrawn 
and reserved by this section (a) comprise 
approximately 608,000 acres of Federal 
land in Otero County, New Mexico, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled 
‘‘McGregor Range Land Withdrawal-Proposed,’’ 
dated January ll, 1999, and filed in 
accordance with section 9004. 
SEC. 9004. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION. 

(a) PREPARATION OF MAPS AND LEGAL DE-
SCRIPTION.—As soon as practicable after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of the Interior shall— 
(1) publish in the Federal Register a notice 
containing the legal description of the withdrawn 
lands; and 
(2) file one or more maps of the withdrawn 
lands and the legal description of the withdrawn 
lands with the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate and 
with the Committee on Resources of the 
House of Representatives. 
(b) LEGAL EFFECT.—The maps and legal description 
shall have the same force and effect 
as if they were included in this title, except 
that the Secretary of the Interior may 
correct clerical and typographical errors in 
the maps and legal description. 
(c) AVAILABILITY.—Copies of the maps and 
the legal description shall be available for 
public inspection in the offices of the New 
Mexico State Director and Las Cruces Field 
Office Manager of the Bureau of Land Management 
and in the office of the Commander 
Officer of Fort Bliss, Texas. 
SEC. 9005. MANAGEMENT OF WITHDRAWN LANDS. 

(a) GENERAL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY.— 
During the withdrawal period, the Secretary 
of the Army shall manage the withdrawn 
lands, in accordance with the provisions of 
this title and the management plan prepared 
under subsection (e), for the military purposes 
specified in section 9003(c). 
(b) ACCESS RESTRICTIONS.— 
(1) AUTHORITY TO CLOSE.—Subject to paragraph 
(2), if the Secretary of the Army determines 
that military operations, public safety, 
or national security require the closure 
to public use of any portion of the withdrawn 
lands (including any road or trail therein) 
commonly in public use, the Secretary of the 
Army is authorized to take such action. 
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—Any closure under 
paragraph (1) shall be limited to the minimum 
areas and periods required for the purposes 
specified in such paragraph. During a 
closure, the Secretary of the Army shall 
keep appropriate warning notices posted and 
take appropriate steps to notify the public 
about the closure. 
(c) MANAGEMENT OF WITHDRAWN AND ACQUIRED 
MINERAL RESOURCES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Interior 
shall manage all withdrawn and acquired 
mineral resources within the boundaries of 
McGregor Range in accordance with Public 
Law 85–337 (commonly known as the Engle 
Act; 43 U.S.C. 155–158). 
(2) MANAGEMENT OF MINERAL MATERIALS.— 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
title or the Materials Act, the Secretary of 
the Army may use, from the withdrawn 
lands, sand, gravel, or similar mineral material 
resources of the type subject to disposition 
under the Materials Act, when the use 
of such resources is required for construction 
needs of Fort Bliss. 

(d) HUNTING, FISHING, AND TRAPPING.—All 
hunting, fishing, and trapping on the withdrawn 
lands shall be conducted in accordance 
with section 2671 of title 10, United 
States Code, and the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670 
et seq.). 
(e) MANAGEMENT PLAN.— 
(1) REQUIRED.—The Secretary of the Army 
and the Secretary of the Interior shall jointly 
develop a natural resources management 
plan for the lands withdrawn under this title 
for the withdrawal period. The management 
plan shall be developed not later than three 
years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act and shall be reviewed at least once every 
five years after its adoption to determine if 
it should be amended. 
(2) CONTENT.—The management plan 
shall— 
(A) include provisions for proper management 
and protection of the natural, cultural, 
and other resources and values of the withdrawn 
lands and for use of such resources to 
the extent consistent with the purpose of the 
withdrawal specified in section 9003(b); 
(B) identify the withdrawn lands (if any) 
that are suitable for opening to the operation 
of the mineral leasing or geothermal 
leasing laws; 
(C) provide for the continuation of livestock 
grazing at the discretion of the Secretary 
of the Army under such authorities as 
are available to the Secretary; and 
(D) provide that the Secretary of the Army 
shall take necessary precautions to prevent, 
suppress, or manage brush and range fires 
occurring within the boundaries of McGregor 
Range, as well as brush and range fires occurring 
outside the boundaries of McGregor 
Range resulting from military activities at 
the range. 
(3) FIRE SUPPRESSION ASSISTANCE.—The 
Secretary of the Army may seek assistance 
from the Bureau of Land Management in 
suppressing any brush or range fire occurring 
within the boundaries of McGregor 
Range or any brush or range fire occurring 
outside the boundaries of McGregor Range 
resulting from military activities at the 
range. The memorandum of understanding 
under section 9006 shall provide for assistance 
from the Bureau of Land Management 
in the suppression of such fires and require 
the Secretary of the Army to reimburse the 
Bureau of Land Management for such assistance. 
SEC. 9006. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING. 

(a) REQUIREMENT.—The Secretary of the 
Army and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
enter into a memorandum of understanding 
to implement this title and the management 
plan. 
(b) DURATION.—The duration of the memorandum 
of understanding shall be the same 
as the withdrawal period. 
(c) AMENDMENT.—The memorandum of understanding 
may be amended by agreement 
of both Secretaries. 
SEC. 9007. TERMINATION OF WITHDRAWAL AND 
RESERVATION; EXTENSION. 

(a) TERMINATION DATE.—The withdrawal 
and reservation made by this title shall terminate 
50 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act. 
(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTENSION.— 
(1) NOTICE OF CONTINUED MILITARY NEED.— 
Not later than five years before the end of 
the withdrawal period, the Secretary of the 
Army shall advise the Secretary of the Interior 
as to whether or not the Army will have 
a continuing military need for any or all of 
the withdrawn lands after the end of the 
withdrawal period. 
(2) APPLICATION FOR EXTENSION.—If the 
Secretary of the Army determines that there 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6723 

will be a continuing military need for any or 
all of the withdrawn lands after the end of 
the withdrawal period, the Secretary of the 
Army shall file an application for extension 
of the withdrawal and reservation of the 
lands in accordance with the then existing 
regulations and procedures of the Department 
of the Interior applicable to extension 
of withdrawal of lands for military purposes 
and that are consistent with this title. The 
application shall be filed with the Department 
of the Interior not later than four 
years before the end of the withdrawal period. 


(c) LIMITATION ON EXTENSION.—The withdrawal 
and reservation made by this title 
may not be extended or renewed except by 
Act or joint resolution. 
SEC. 9008. RELINQUISHMENT OF WITHDRAWN 
LANDS. 

(a) FILING OF RELINQUISHMENT NOTICE.—If, 
during the withdrawal period, the Secretary 
of the Army decides to relinquish all or any 
portion of the withdrawn lands, the Secretary 
of the Army shall file a notice of intention 
to relinquish with the Secretary of 
the Interior. 
(b) DETERMINATION OF PRESENCE OF CON-
TAMINATION.—Before transmitting a relinquishment 
notice under subsection (a), the 
Secretary of the Army, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the Interior, shall prepare a 
written determination concerning whether 
and to what extent the lands to be relinquished 
are contaminated with explosive, 
toxic, or other hazardous wastes and substances. 
A copy of such determination shall 
be transmitted with the relinquishment notice. 
(c) DECONTAMINATION AND REMEDIATION.— 
In the case of contaminated lands which are 
the subject of a relinquishment notice, the 
Secretary of the Army shall decontaminate 
or remediate the land to the extent that 
funds are appropriated for such purpose if 
the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation 
with the Secretary of the Army, determines 
that— 
(1) decontamination or remediation of the 
lands is practicable and economically feasible, 
taking into consideration the potential 
future use and value of the land; and 
(2) upon decontamination or remediation, 
the land could be opened to the operation of 
some or all of the public land laws, including 
the mining laws. 
(d) DECONTAMINATION AND REMEDIATION ACTIVITIES 
SUBJECT TO OTHER LAWS.—The activities 
of the Secretary of the Army under 
subsection (c) are subject to applicable laws 
and regulations, including the Defense Environmental 
Restoration Program established 
under section 2701 of title 10, United States 
Code, the Comprehensive Environmental Response 
Compensation and Liability Act of 
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), and the Solid 
Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.). 
(e) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR 
TO REFUSE CONTAMINATED LANDS.—The 
Secretary of the Interior shall not be required 
to accept lands specified in a relinquishment 
notice if the Secretary of the Interior, 
after consultation with the Secretary 
of the Army, concludes that— 
(1) decontamination or remediation of any 
land subject to the relinquishment notice is 
not practicable or economically feasible; 
(2) the land cannot be decontaminated or 
remediated sufficiently to be opened to operation 
of some or all of the public land laws; 
or 
(3) a sufficient amount of funds are not appropriated 
for the decontamination of the 
land. 
(f) STATUS OF CONTAMINATED LANDS.—If, 
because of the condition of the lands, the 
Secretary of the Interior declines to accept 
jurisdiction of lands proposed for relinquishment 
or, if at the expiration of the withdrawal 
made under this title, the Secretary 
of the Interior determines that some of the 
withdrawn lands are contaminated to an extent 
which prevents opening such contaminated 
lands to operation of the public land 
laws— 

(1) the Secretary of the Army shall take 
appropriate steps to warn the public of the 
contaminated state of such lands and any 
risks associated with entry onto such lands; 
(2) after the expiration of the withdrawal, 
the Secretary of the Army shall retain jurisdiction 
over the withdrawn lands, but shall 
undertake no activities on such lands except 
in connection with the decontamination or 
remediation of such lands; and 
(3) the Secretary of the Army shall report 
to the Secretary of the Interior and to the 
Congress concerning the status of such lands 
and all actions taken under paragraphs (1) 
and (2). 
(g) SUBSEQUENT DECONTAMINATION OR RE-
MEDIATION.—If lands covered by subsection 
(f) are subsequently decontaminated or re-
mediated and the Secretary of the Army certifies 
that the lands are safe for nonmilitary 
uses, the Secretary of the Interior shall reconsider 
accepting jurisdiction over the 
lands. 
(h) REVOCATION AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, upon deciding 
that it is in the public interest to accept 
jurisdiction over lands specified in a relinquishment 
notice, the Secretary of the Interior 
may revoke the withdrawal and reservation 
made under this title as it applies 
to such lands. If the decision be made to accept 
the relinquishment and to revoke the 
withdrawal and reservation, the Secretary of 
the Interior shall publish in the Federal Register 
an appropriate order which shall— 
(1) terminate the withdrawal and reservation; 
(2) constitute official acceptance of full jurisdiction 
over the lands by the Secretary of 
the Interior; and 
(3) state the date upon which the lands will 
be opened to the operation of the public land 
laws, including the mining laws, if appropriate. 
SEC. 9009. DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY. 

(a) SECRETARY OF THE ARMY.—The functions 
of the Secretary of the Army under 
this title may be delegated. 
(b) SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.—The functions 
of the Secretary of the Interior under 
this title may be delegated, except that an 
order under section 9008(h) to accept relinquishment 
of withdrawn lands may be approved 
and signed only by the Secretary of 
the Interior, the Deputy Secretary of the Interior, 
or an Assistant Secretary of the Interior. 
STEVENS (AND DOMENICI) 
AMENDMENT NO. 607 

Mr. STEVENS (for himself and Mr. 
DOMENICI) proposed an amendment to 
the bill, S. 1122, supra; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in the bill, add 
the following: 

TITLE —RENEWAL OF MILITARY LAND 
WITHDRAWALS 
SEC. 01. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the Military 
Lands Withdrawal Renewal Act of 1999’’. 
SEC. 02. WITHDRAWALS. 

(a) MCGREGOR RANGE.—(1) Subject to valid 
existing rights and except as otherwise provided 
in this title, the public lands described 
in paragraph (3) are hereby withdrawn from 
all forms of appropriation under the public 
land laws (including the mining laws and the 
mineral leasing and the geothermal leasing 
laws). 
(2) Such lands are reserved for use by the 
Secretary of the Army— 
(A) for training and weapons testing; and 
(B) subject to the requirements of section 
2904(f), for other defense-related purposes 
consistent with the purposes specified in this 
paragraph. 
(3) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) 
are the lands comprising approximately 
608,384.87 acres in Otero County, New Mexico, 
as generally depicted on the map entitled 
‘‘McGregor Range Withdrawal—Proposed’’, 
dated January 1985, and withdrawn by the 
provisions of section 1(d) of the Military 
Lands Withdrawal Act of 1986. Such lands do 
not include any portion of the lands so withdrawn 
that were relinquished to the Secretary 
of the Interior under the provisions of 
that Act. 
(4) Any of the public lands withdrawn 
under paragraph (1) which, as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act, are managed pursuant 
to section 603 of the Federal Land Policy 
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1782) shall continue to be managed under 
that section until otherwise expressly provided 
by law. 
(b) FORT GREELY MANEUVER AREA AND 
FORT GREELY AIR DROP ZONE.—(1) Subject to 
valid existing rights and except as otherwise 
provided in this title, the lands described in 
paragraph (3) are hereby withdrawn from all 
forms of appropriation under the public land 
laws (including the mining laws and the mineral 
leasing and the geothermal leasing 
laws), under the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to provide 
for the admission of the State of Alaska 
into the Union’’, approved July 7, 1958 (48 
U.S.C. note prec. 21), and under the Alaska 
Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 
et seq.). 
(2) Such lands are reserved for use by the 
Secretary of the Army for— 
(A) military maneuvering, training, and 
equipment development and testing; and 
(B) subject to the requirements of section 
2904(f), other defense-related purposes consistent 
with the purposes specified in this 
paragraph. 
(3)(A) The lands referred to in paragraph 

(1) are— 
(i) the lands comprising approximately 
571,995 acres in the Big Delta Area, Alaska, 
as generally depicted on the map entitled 
‘‘Fort Greely Maneuver Area Withdrawal— 
Proposed’’, dated January 1985, and withdrawn 
by the provisions of section 1(e) of the 
Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1986; and 
(ii) the lands comprising approximately 
51,590 acres in the Granite Creek Area, Alaska, 
as generally depicted on the map entitled 
‘‘Fort Greely, Air Drop Zone Withdrawal— 
Proposed’’, dated January 1985, and withdrawn 
by the provisions of such section. 
(B) Such lands do not include any portion 
of the lands so withdrawn that were relinquished 
to the Secretary of the Interior 
under the provisions of that Act. 
(c) FORT WAINWRIGHT MANEUVER AREA.—(1) 
Subject to valid existing rights and except as 
otherwise provided in this title, the public 
lands described in paragraph (3) are hereby 
withdrawn from all forms of appropriation 
under the public land laws (including the 
mining laws and the mineral leasing and the 
geothermal leasing laws), under the Act entitled 
‘‘An Act to provide for the admission of 
the State of Alaska into the Union’’, approved 
July 7, 1958 (48 U.S.C. note prec. 21), 
and under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.). 
(2) Such lands are reserved for use by the 
Secretary of the Army for— 
(A) military maneuvering; 
(B) training for artillery firing, aerial gunnery, 
and infantry tactics; and 

S6724 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

(C) subject to the requirements of section 
2904(f), other defense-related purposes consistent 
with the purposes specified in this 
paragraph. 
(3) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) 
are the lands comprising approximately 
247,951.67 acres of land in the Fourth Judicial 
District, Alaska, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ‘‘Fort Wainwright Maneuver 
Area Withdrawal—Proposed’’, dated January 
1985, and withdrawn by the provisions 
of section 1(f) of the Military Lands Withdrawal 
Act of 1986. Such lands do not include 
any portion of the lands so withdrawn that 
were relinquished to the Secretary of the Interior 
under the provisions of that Act. 
SEC. 03. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS. 

(a) PUBLICATION AND FILING REQUIREMENT.—
As soon as practicable after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of the Interior shall— 
(1) publish in the Federal Register a notice 
containing the legal description of the lands 
withdrawn by this title; and 
(2) file maps and the legal description of 
the lands withdrawn by this title with the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
of the Senate and the Committee on Resources 
of the House of Representatives. 
(b) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Such maps 
and legal descriptions shall have the same 
force and effect as if they were included in 
this title except that the Secretary of the Interior 
may correct clerical and typographical 
errors in such maps and legal descriptions. 
(c) AVAILABILITY FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.— 
Copies of such maps and legal descriptions 
shall be available for public inspection in the 
following offices: 
(1) The Office of the Secretary of Defense. 
(2) The offices of the Director and appropriate 
State Directors of the Bureau of Land 
Management. 
(3) The offices of the Director and appropriate 
Regional Directors of the United 
States Fish and Wildlife Service. 
(4) The office of the commander, McGregor 
Range. 
(5) The office of the installation commander, 
Fort Richardson, Alaska. 
(d) REIMBURSEMENT.—The Secretary of Defense 
shall reimburse the Secretary of the 
Interior for any costs incurred by the Secretary 
of the Interior in carrying out this 
section. 
SEC. 04. MANAGEMENT OF WITHDRAWN LANDS. 

(a) MANAGEMENT BY SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.—(
1)(A) The Secretary of the Interior 
shall manage the lands withdrawn by this 
title pursuant to the Federal Land Policy 
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.) and other applicable law, including the 
Recreation Use of Wildlife Areas Act of 1962 
(16 U.S.C. 460k et seq.) and this title. The 
Secretary shall manage such lands through 
the Bureau of Land Management. 
(2) To the extent consistent with applicable 
law and Executive orders, the lands withdrawn 
by this title may be managed in a 
manner permitting— 
(A) the continuation of grazing pursuant to 
applicable law and Executive orders where 
permitted on the date of the enactment of 
this Act; 
(B) protection of wildlife and wildlife habitat; 
(C) control of predatory and other animals; 
(D) recreation; and 
(E) the prevention and appropriate suppression 
of brush and range fires resulting 
from nonmilitary activities. 
(3)(A) All nonmilitary use of the lands 
withdrawn by this title, other than the uses 
described in paragraph (2), shall be subject to 
such conditions and restrictions as may be 
necessary to permit the military use of such 

lands for the purposes specified in or authorized 
pursuant to this title. 

(B) The Secretary of the Interior may issue 
any lease, easement, right-of-way, or other 
authorization with respect to the nonmilitary 
use of such lands only with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of the military department 
concerned. 
(b) CLOSURE TO PUBLIC.—(1) If the Secretary 
of the military department concerned 
determines that military operations, public 
safety, or national security require the closure 
to public use of any road, trail, or other 
portion of the lands withdrawn by this title, 
that Secretary may take such action as that 
Secretary determines necessary to effect and 
maintain such closure. 
(2) Any such closure shall be limited to the 
minimum areas and periods which the Secretary 
of the military department concerned 
determines are required to carry out this 
subsection. 
(3) During any closure under this subsection, 
the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall— 
(A) keep appropriate warning notices posted; 
and 
(B) take appropriate steps to notify the 
public concerning such closures. 
(c) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—(1)(A) The Secretary 
of the Interior (after consultation 
with the Secretary of the military department 
concerned) shall develop a plan for the 
management of each area withdrawn by this 
title. 
(2) Each plan shall— 
(A) be consistent with applicable law; 
(B) be subject to conditions and restrictions 
specified in subsection (a)(3); and 
(C) include such provisions as may be necessary 
for proper management and protection 
of the resources and values of such 
areas. 
(3) The Secretary of the Interior shall develop 
each plan required by this subsection 
not later than three years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act. In developing a 
plan for an area, the Secretary may utilize 
or modify appropriate provisions of the management 
plan developed for the area under 
section 3(c) of the Military Lands Withdrawal 
Act of 1986. 
(d) BRUSH AND RANGE FIRES.—(1) The Secretary 
of the military department concerned 
shall take necessary precautions to prevent 
and suppress brush and range fires occurring 
within and outside the lands withdrawn by 
this title as a result of military activities 
and may seek assistance from the Bureau of 
Land Management in the suppression of such 
fires. 
(2) Each memorandum of understanding required 
by subsection (e) shall provide for Bureau 
of Land Management assistance in the 
suppression of fires referred to in paragraph 
(1) in the area covered by the memorandum 
of understanding, and for a transfer of funds 
from the military department concerned to 
the Bureau of Land Management as compensation 
for such assistance. 
(e) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—(1) 
The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary 
of the military department concerned 
shall (with respect to each area withdrawn 
by section 2902) enter into a memorandum of 
understanding to implement the management 
plan developed under subsection (c). 
(2) Each memorandum of understanding 
shall provide that the Director of the Bureau 
of Land Management shall provide assistance 
in the suppression of fires resulting 
from the military use of lands withdrawn by 
this title if requested by the Secretary of the 
military department concerned. 
(f) ADDITIONAL MILITARY USES.—(1) The 
lands withdrawn by this title may be used 
for defense-related uses other than those 
specified in the applicable provision of section 
2902. The use of such lands for such purposes 
shall be governed by all laws applicable 
to such lands, including this title. 

(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall 
promptly notify the Secretary of the Interior 
in the event that the lands withdrawn by 
this title will be used for defense-related purposes 
other than those specified in section 
2902. 

(B) Such notification shall indicate the additional 
use or uses involved, the proposed 
duration of such uses, and the extent to 
which such additional military uses of the 
lands will require that additional or more 
stringent conditions or restrictions be imposed 
on otherwise-permitted nonmilitary 
uses of the land or portions thereof. 
(3) Subject to valid existing rights, the 
Secretary of the military department concerned 
may utilize sand, gravel, or similar 
mineral or material resources on the lands 
withdrawn by this title when the use of such 
resources is required to meet the construction 
needs of the military department concerned 
on the lands withdrawn by this title. 
SEC. 06. LAND MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS. 

(a) PERIODIC ANALYSIS REQUIRED.—Not 
later than 10 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, any every 10 years 
thereafter, the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall, in consultation 
with the Secretary of the Interior, conduct 
an analysis of the degree to which the management 
of the lands withdrawn by this title 
conforms to the requirements of laws applicable 
to the management of such lands, including 
this title. 
(b) DEADLINE.—Each analysis under this 
section shall be completed not later than 270 
days after the commencement of such analysis. 
(c) LIMITATION ON COST.—The cost of each 
analysis under this section may not exceed 
$900,000 in constant 1999 dollars. 
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the completion of an analysis 
under this section, the Secretary of the military 
department concerned shall submit to 
Congress a report on the analysis. The report 
shall set forth the results of the analysis and 
include any other matters relating to the 
management of the lands withdrawn by this 
title that such Secretary considers appropriate. 
SEC. 07. ONGOING ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION. 


(a) REQUIREMENT.—To the extent provided 
in advance in appropriations Acts, the Secretary 
of the military department concerned 
shall carry out a program to provide for the 
environmental restoration of the lands withdrawn 
by this title in order to ensure a level 
of environmental decontamination of such 
lands equivalent to the level of environmental 
decontamination that exists on such 
lands as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act. 
(b) REPORTS.—(1) At the same time the 
President submits to Congress the budget for 
any fiscal year after fiscal year 2000, the Secretary 
of the military department concerned 
shall submit to the committees referred to in 
paragraph (2) a report on environmental restoration 
activities relating to the lands 
withdrawn by this title. The report shall satisfy 
the requirements of section 2706(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, with respect to 
the activities on such lands. 
(2) The committees referred to in paragraph 
(1) are the Committees on Appropriations, 
Armed Services, and Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate and the Committees 
on Appropriations, Armed Services, 
and Resources of the House of Representatives. 
SEC. 08. RELINQUISHMENT. 

(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary of the military 
department concerned may relinquish 

June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6725 

all or any of the lands withdrawn by this 
title to the Secretary of the Interior. 

(b) NOTICE.—If the Secretary of the military 
department concerned determines to relinquish 
any lands withdrawn by this title 
under subsection (a), that Secretary shall 
transmit to the Secretary of the Interior a 
notice of intent to relinquish such lands. 
(c) DETERMINATION OF CONTAMINATION.—(1) 
Before transmitting a notice of intent to relinquish 
any lands under subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
military department concerned, shall determine 
whether and to what extent such lands 
are contaminated with explosive, toxic, or 
other hazardous materials. 
(2) A copy of a determination with respect 
to any lands under paragraph (1) shall be 
transmitted to the Secretary of the Interior 
together with the notice of intent to relinquish 
such lands under subsection (b). 
(3) Copies of both the notice of intent to relinquish 
lands under subsection (b) and the 
determination regarding the contamination 
of such lands under this subsection shall be 
published in the Federal Register by the Secretary 
of the Interior. 
(d) DECONTAMINATION.—(1) If any land subject 
to a notice of intent to relinquish under 
subsection (a) is contaminated, and the Secretary 
of the Interior, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the military department 
concerned, makes the determination described 
in paragraph (2), the Secretary of the 
military department concerned shall, to the 
extent provided in advance in appropriations 
Acts, undertake the environmental decontamination 
of the land. 
(2) A determination referred to in this 
paragraph is a determination that— 
(A) decontamination of the land concerned 
is practicable and economically feasible 
(taking into consideration the potential future 
use and value of the land); and 
(B) upon decontamination, the land could 
be opened to operation of some or all of the 
public land laws, including the mining laws. 
(e) ALTERNATIVES.—(1) If a circumstance 
described in paragraph (2) arises with respect 
to any land which is covered by a notice of 
intent to relinquish under subsection (a), the 
Secretary of the Interior shall not be required 
to accept the land under this section. 
(2) A circumstance referred to in this paragraph 
is— 
(A) a determination by the Secretary of 
the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary 
of the military department concerned 
that— 
(i) decontamination of the land is not practicable 
or economically feasible; or 
(ii) the land cannot be decontaminated to a 
sufficient extent to permit its opening to the 
operation of some or all of the public land 
laws; or 
(B) the appropriation by Congress of 
amounts that are insufficient to provide for 
the decontamination of the land. 
(f) STATUS OF CONTAMINATED LANDS.—If, 
because of their contaminated state, the 
Secretary of the Interior declines to accept 
jurisdiction over lands withdrawn by this 
title which have been proposed for relinquishment 
under subsection (a)— 
(1) the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall take appropriate steps 
to warn the public of the contaminated state 
of such lands and any risks associated with 
entry onto such lands; and 
(2) the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall report to the Secretary 
of the Interior and to Congress concerning 
the status of such lands and all actions 
taken in furtherance of this subsection. 
(g) REVOCATION OF AUTHORITY.—(1) Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior may, upon deciding 
that it is in the public interest to accept jurisdiction 
over lands proposed for relinquishment 
pursuant to subsection (a), revoke the 
withdrawal established by this title as it applies 
to such lands. 

(2) Should the decision be made to revoke 
the withdrawal, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall publish in the Federal Register an appropriate 
order which shall— 
(A) terminate the withdrawal; 
(B) constitute official acceptance of full jurisdiction 
over the lands by the Secretary of 
the Interior; and 
(C) state the date upon which the lands 
will be opened to the operation of some or all 
of the public lands laws, including the mining 
laws. 
(h) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN RELINQUISHED 
LANDS.—Any lands withdrawn by section 
2902(c) or 2902(d) that are relinquished under 
this section shall be public lands under the 
jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management 
and shall be consider vacant, unreserved, 
and unappropriated for purposes of 
the public land laws. 
SEC. 09. DELEGABILITY. 

(a) DEFENSE.—The functions of the Secretary 
of Defense or of the Secretary of a 
military department under this title may be 
delegated. 
(b) INTERIOR.—The functions of the Secretary 
of the Interior under this title may be 
delegated, except that an order described in 
section 2908(g) may be approved and signed 
only by the Secretary of the Interior, the 
Under Secretary of the Interior, or an Assistant 
Secretary of the Interior. 
SEC. 10. WATER RIGHTS. 

Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
establish a reservation to the United States 
with respect to any water or water right on 
the lands described in section 2902. No provision 
of this title shall be construed as authorizing 
the appropriation of water on lands 
described in section 2902 by the United 
States after the date of the enactment of 
this Act except in accordance with the law of 
the relevant State in which lands described 
in section 2902 are located. This section shall 
not be construed to affect water rights acquired 
by the United States before the date 
of the enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 11. HUNTING, FISHING, AND TRAPPING. 

All hunting, fishing, and trapping on the 
lands withdrawn by this title shall be conducted 
in accordance with the provisions of 
section 2671 of title 10, United States Code. 
SEC. 12. MINING AND MINERAL LEASING. 

(a) DETERMINATION OF LANDS SUITABLE FOR 
OPENING.—(1) As soon as practicable after 
the date of the enactment of this Act and at 
least every five years thereafter, the Secretary 
of the Interior shall determine, with 
the concurrence of the Secretary of the military 
department concerned, which public and 
acquired lands (except as provided in this 
subsection) described in subsections (b), (c), 
and (d) of section 2902 the Secretary of the 
Interior considers suitable for opening to the 
operation of the Mining Law of 1872, the Mineral 
Lands Leasing Act of 1920, the Mineral 
Leasing Act for Acquired Lands of 1947, the 
Geothermal Steam Act of 1970, or any one or 
more of such Acts. 
(2) The Secretary of the Interior shall publish 
a notice in the Federal Register listing 
the lands determined suitable for opening 
pursuant to this section and specifying the 
opening date. 
(b) OPENING LANDS.—On the day specified 
by the Secretary of the Interior in a notice 
published in the Federal Register pursuant 
to subsection (a), the land identified under 
subsection (a) as suitable for opening to the 
operation of one or more of the laws specified 
in subsection (a) shall automatically be 
open to the operation of such laws without 
the necessity for further action by the Secretary 
or Congress. 
(c) EXCEPTION FOR COMMON VARIETIES.—No 
deposit of minerals or materials of the types 
identified by section 3 of the Act of July 23, 
1955 (69 Stat. 367), whether or not included in 
the term ‘‘common varieties’’ in that Act, 
shall be subject to location under the Mining 
Law of 1872 on lands described in section 
2902. 
(d) REGULATIONS.—(1) The Secretary of the 
Interior, with the advice and concurrence of 
the Secretary of the military department 
concerned, shall prescribe such regulations 
to implement this section as may be necessary 
to assure safe, uninterrupted, and 
unimpeded use of the lands described in section 
2902 for military purposes. 
(2) Such regulations shall contain guidelines 
to assist mining claimants in determining 
how much, if any, of the surface of 
any lands opened pursuant to this section 
may be used for purposes incident to mining. 
(e) CLOSURE OF MINING LANDS.—In the 
event of a national emergency or for purposes 
of national defense or security, the 
Secretary of the Interior, at the request of 
the Secretary of the military department 
concerned, shall close any lands that have 
been opened to mining or to mineral or geothermal 
leasing pursuant to this section. 
(f) LAWS GOVERNING MINING ON WITHDRAWN 
LANDS.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in 
this title, mining claims located pursuant to 
this title shall be subject to the provisions of 
the mining laws. In the event of a conflict 
between those laws and this title, this title 
shall prevail. 
(2) All mining claims located under the 
terms of this title shall be subject to the provisions 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.). 
(g) PATENTS.—(1) Patents issued pursuant 
to this title for locatable minerals shall convey 
title to locatable minerals only, together 
with the right to use so much of the 
surface as may be necessary for purposes incident 
to mining under the guidelines for 
such use established by the Secretary of the 
Interior by regulation. 
(2) All such patents shall contain a reservation 
to the United States of the surface 
of all lands patented and of all nonlocatable 
minerals on those lands. 
(3) For the purposes of this subsection, all 
minerals subject to location under the Mining 
Law of 1872 shall be treated as locatable 
minerals. 
SEC. 13. IMMUNITY OF UNITED STATES. 

The United States and all departments or 
agencies thereof shall be held harmless and 
shall not be liable for any injuries or damages 
to persons or property suffered in the 
course of any mining or mineral or geothermal 
leasing activity conducted on lands 
described in section 2902. 

f 


NOTICES OF HEARINGS 

PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS 

Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I would 
like to announce for the information of 
the Senate and the public that the Permanent 
Subcommittee on Investigations 
of the Committee on Governmental 
Affairs, will hold a hearing entitled 
‘‘Home Health Care: Will the 
New Payment System & Regulatory 
Overkill Hurt Our Seniors?’’ This Subcommittee 
hearing will focus on how 
the new Medicare Interim Payment 
System and new regulatory requirements 
from the Health Care Financing 
Administration may limit the access of 
beneficiaries most in need of home 
health services. 

The hearing will take place on Thursday, 
June 10, 1999, at 2:00 p.m., in Room 


S6726 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

342 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building. 
For further information, please 
contact Lee Blalack of the Subcommittee 
staff at 224–3721. 

COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL 
RESOURCES 

Mr. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce that a full committee 
oversight hearing has been 
schedule before the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

The hearing will take place Thursday, 
June 24, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. in room 
SD–366 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building in Washington, D.C. 

The purpose of this hearing is to examine 
the implications of the proposed 
acquisition of the Atlantic Richfield 
Company by BP Amoco, PLC. Specifically 
the Committee will examine the 
following issues related to the acquisition: 


U.S. national and energy security; 
Impact on crude oil prices and supply 
on the U.S. West Coast; 

Marine transportation; 

Pipeline transportation; and 

Exploration and production in Alaska 
and the lower 48. 

Those who wish to testify or to submit 
written testimony should write to 
the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources, U.S. Senate, Washington, 

D.C. 20510. Presentation of oral testimony 
is by Committee invitation only. 
For further information, please contact 
Jo Meuse or Brian Malnak at (202) 224– 
6730. 
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL 
RESOURCES 

Mr. CRAIG. Mr. President, I would 
like to announce for the public that a 
hearing has been schedule before the 
Subcommittee on Forests and Public 
Land Management of the Senate Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 


The hearing will take place on Tuesday, 
June 29, at 2:30 p.m. in room SD– 
366 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building 
in Washington, D.C. 

The purpose of this hearing is to receive 
testimony on fire preparedness on 
Federal lands. Specifically, what actions 
the Bureau of Land Management 
and the Forest Service are taking to 
prepare for the fire season; whether the 
agencies are informing the public 
about these plans; and ongoing research 
related to wildfire and fire suppression 
activities. 

Those who wish to submit written 
testimony should write to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources, 
U.S. Senate, Washington, D.C. 
20510. For further information, please 
contact Mike Menge (202) 224–6170. 

COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL 
RESOURCES 

Mr. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce for the public 
that a full committee hearing on S. 
1049, the ‘‘Federal Oil and Gas Lease 
Management Improvement Act of 
1999,’’ scheduled for June 17, 1999 at 9:30 

a.m. in room SD–366 of the Dirksen 
Senate Office Building has been postponed 
and will be rescheduled for a 
later date to be announced by the committee. 


For further information, please contact 
Dan Kish, of the committee professional 
staff, at (202) 224–8276. 

f 


AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO 
MEET 

COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Armed Services be authorized 
to meet on Tuesday, June 8, 1999, 
at 9:30 a.m. in open session, to consider 
the nominations of General Eric K. 
Shinseki, USA, for reappointment to 
the grade of general and for appointment 
as Chief of Staff, United States 
Army; and Lieutenant General James 

L. Jones, Jr., USMC, to be general and 
for appointment as Commandant of the 
Marine Corps. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on the Judiciary be authorized 
to meet in closed session for a hearing 
re Department of Justice Oversight, 
during the session of the Senate on 
Tuesday, June 8, 1999, at 10:00 a.m., in 
S407 of the Capitol. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, the 
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs would 
like to request unanimous consent to 
hold a hearing on the nominations of 
Kenneth W. Kizer, M.D., M.P.H., to be 
Under Secretary for Health, Department 
of Veterans Affairs, and John T. 
Hanson to be Assistant Secretary for 
Public and Intergovernmental Affairs, 
Department of Veterans Affairs. 

The hearing will be held on Tuesday, 
June 8, 1999, at 2:15 p.m., in room 418 of 
the Russell Senate Office Building. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON AFRICAN AFFAIRS 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Subcommittee 
on African Affairs be authorized 
to meet during the session of 
the Senate on Tuesday, June 8, 1999, at 

2:15 p.m. to hold a hearing. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

RETIREMENT OF COL. WILLIAM 
ALEXANDER, USAF 

· Mr. BURNS. Mr. President, as the 
Senate proceeds with its debate on the 
Defense Appropriations Bill, it is appropriate 
that we pause and recognize 
the contribution of a Defense Procurement 
Official on the occasion of his retirement. 
Colonel William Alexander— 
Alex to his friends—is retiring this 
month after an Air Force career span


ning almost 30 years. Alex has spent 
much of his career leading and mentoring 
Defense Acquisition Professionals, 
leaving as his legacy a new 
generation of experienced procurement 
managers. 

Born in the baby boom era between 
WWII and the Korean War, Alex grew 
up in Indiana, where he attended 
DePauw and Indiana Universities. 
After completing his Masters Degree in 
1970, he entered the Air Force at 
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in 
Dayton, Ohio. Some of his early 
projects started the development for 
today’s generation of precision guided 
weapons. It was a whole lot trickier 
then, without the advantage of the 
Global Positioning System, but his 
team worked to develop a way to triangulate 
a target designation to improve 
bomb targeting reliability. 

The Air Force recognized the contributions 
of this young officer and 
moved him into a career in procurement 
and satellite operations. Alex 
spent the next 20 years of his career 
moving between different aspects of 
the complex world of keeping satellites 
operating successfully on orbit. He was 
a procurement official in a number of 
software source selections, using his 
abilities to aid the Air Force in getting 
revolutionary operating software for 
its expanding fleet of satellites. After 
his work in operations, the Air Force 
wisely transferred him into the National 
Reconnaissance Office as the Director 
of the Acquisition and Engineering 
Group within the Communications 
System Acquisition and Operations Directorate. 
When the Deputy Director of 
the Communications Directorate was 
reassigned, Alex was selected for this 
position in light of his vast experience 
in successful acquisitions. 

However, I don’t want to spend too 
much time discussing the technical details 
of Colonel Alexander’s career. 
There are many successful procurement 
officials within the Air Force and 
the Department of Defense, but few are 
as widely recognized for their crafting 
of personnel in addition to their acquisition 
expertise. Although the project 
was always treated with importance, 
Alex always made sure that his people 
came first. He was always looking to 
find ways to challenge his staff to grow 
both in technical ability and in interpersonal 
relationships. His success 
gives credence to the philosophy of empowering 
and caring for your people, 
which ultimately leads to the program 
success. One night during his time in 
satellite operations, a satellite was 
having difficulties getting initialized. 
Scores of people were working around 
the clock trying to work through the 
complex issues involved. Recognizing 
that people do not perform at their 
best when they are exhausted, Colonel 
Alexander banished a number of people 
from the operations floor until they 
had a rest period. The engineers returned 
to the floor with clearer heads 
and ultimately were able to get the 
satellite up and running successfully 
on orbit. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6727 

When there was a tragic death of an 
employee on official travel, Alex temporarily 
set aside his own grief to assist 
others in the office in addition to 
the employee’s family. In the confusion 
that surrounded the funeral, Alex took 
time to meet with all of the family 
members to try to help them understand 
the events that had taken place. 
It was a difficult time for all involved, 
but Alex clearly demonstrated his caring 
for his co-workers and should be 
commended for his actions. 

One area where Colonel Alexander 
should be especially proud is in his initiatives 
for acquisition reform. Alex 
was always driving to improve all aspects 
of buying satellites and software, 
looking for new and innovative ways to 
execute the program. At his encouragement, 
one division has studied purchasing 
satellites on-orbit, which 
would be a first for the NRO. He has 
been an advocate for openness and revolutionary 
thinking, balancing trusted 
methods with new ideas. Under his 
leadership, a security rebaselining was 
started which resulted in his program 
appearing on CBS’ Eye on America. His 
drive in this area has literally saved 
the federal government millions of dollars. 


Finally, I want to thank Colonel Alexander 
for one final initiative. After 
being nominated for a Congressional 
Fellowship by Colonel Alexander, a 
member of his staff has joined my staff 
for the legislative year. This staff 
member has been of great assistance 
already in the Defense bills that have 
gone to the floor, and I look forward to 
his continuing contribution through 
the rest of the Senate’s session. 

I’m sure that there are still many details 
for Colonel Alexander to work out 
as he transitions to a ‘‘former’’ military 
life. I wish him the best in his endeavors 
and pass along a sincere thank 
you on behalf of Congress for passing 
along his life’s philosophy to the generation 
that will follow in his procurement 
footsteps. The legacy left behind 
is greater than mere relics of satellites 
and software, which will age and be disregarded. 
Colonel Alexander’s heritage 
is in a corps of people who now have a 
greater understanding of the balances 
and pressures in life and a toolkit with 
how to deal with them. This is a true 
success, and one that I hope will be a 
sustained source of pride throughout 
his retirement.· 

f 


THE FENWAY COMMUNITY DEVEL


OPMENT CORPORATION’S 25TH 

ANNIVERSARY 

· Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, today 
the Fenway Community Development 
Corporation in Boston is celebrating 
its twenty-fifth anniversary, and I congratulate 
the corporation on its impressive 
accomplishments. 

The Nation’s economy is currently 
enjoying the longest period of peacetime 
expansion in the nation’s history. 
Today, more Americans than ever have 
access to quality education and produc


tive jobs and careers. But that success 
is no cause for complacency. Too many 
of our fellow citizens and too many of 
our communities are not full participants 
in the nation’s overall prosperity. 
For them, economic growth 
often means higher housing costs and 
pressures to move out of neighborhoods 
which have been their homes all their 
lives. 

Twenty-five years ago, the Fenway 
Community Development Corporation 
was formed to do more to see that 
neighborhood development benefits the 
residents of the neighborhood. The Corporation 
stands proudly for the fundamental 
principle that local residents 
should enjoy the benefits of economic 
growth too, regardless of their incomes, 
and that neighborhood planning 
should always put people first. 

Since 1973, the Fenway CDC has 
worked skillfully to improve the quality 
of life in the community, actively 
encouraging residents to participate in 
decisions that affect it. Under its leadership, 
residents from different cultures, 
age groups, and income levels 
have all come together for a better 
Fenway. I commend them for what 
they have done to empower people and 
strengthen the fabric of their neighborhoods. 


A large part of this success comes 
from many activities to improve life in 
the Fenway. Protecting existing housing, 
actively seeking opportunities to 
develop affordable new housing, pursuing 
commercial development that 
meets the needs of the neighborhood— 
all of these are essential parts of the 
mission. 

Other activities include homebuyer 
counseling—the afterschool programs 
and playground renovation for neighborhood 
youth through the Fenway 
Family Coalition—the computer training 
and job opportunities with local 
employers through the Walk to Work 
Program—and the Senior Task Force, 
which maintains affordable housing for 
low income elderly residents, as well as 
blood pressure screenings and recreation 
facilities available at the Peter-
borough Senior Center. All of these 
programs have contributed immensely 
to the quality of life in the Fenway 
neighborhood, and the Corporation deserve 
great credit for these achievements. 


Fenway CDC is a respected leader of 
CDCs nationwide. I congratulate them 
for 25 years of skillful work and real results, 
and I know that the next 25 years 
will be just as successful.· 

f 


TRIBUTE TO THE LOON MOUNTAIN 

RECREATION CORPORATION 
· Mr. SMITH of New Hampshire. Mr. 
President, I rise today to pay tribute 
to Loon Mountain Recreation Corporation 
of Lincoln, New Hampshire for 
their outstanding achievements in the 
environmental arena. This month. 
Loon Mountain will receive the Times 
Mirror Company’s Silver Eagle Award 
for Environmental Excellence in Visual 
Impact. 

Loon Mountain will be receiving this 
award due to the recent installation of 
a new snowmaking pump station. The 
resort’s two objectives in the design of 
this station were to reduce the visual 
impact of the pump station to the surrounding 
community and minimize the 
impact of the new water withdrawal 
system on the adjacent river. 

Through careful site planning and 
creative architectural design, the 
pump station blends in naturally with 
its surroundings. The techniques employed 
during construction were environmentally 
sound and the withdrawal 
system does not disturb the river environment. 


As a senior member of the Senate Environment 
and Public Works Committee, 
I realize the impact that industrial 
design can have on the environment, 
and I am excited to see businesses 
such as Loon Mountain working 
hard to minimize these impacts. I commend 
the Loon Mountain Recreation 
Corporation for their environmental 
awareness, and I am proud to represent 
them in the U.S. Senate.· 

f 


ANDRE AGASSI 
· Mr. BRYAN. Mr. President, I rise 
today to recognize the historic event 
that took place this past weekend in 
Paris when Las Vegas’s own Andre 
Agassi captured the 1999 French Open 
Championship. Andre’s completion of 
the career Grand Slam secures him a 
place in tennis history that only five 
other men can claim, and as a testament 
to his versality, he is the only 
person to accomplish this feat on three 
different surfaces—hardcourt, grass, 
and clay. He is the first American in 61 
years to win all four majors— 
Wimbledom in 1992, the U.S. Open in 
1994, the Australian Open in 1995, and 
now the French—and his victory will 
soon catapult him to No. 4 in the world 
rankings. 
As great as Andre’s accomplishments 
have been on the court throughout his 
career, they are, in my opinion, overshadowed 
by the generosity and compassion 
he has shown off the court. Andre’s 
commitment to at-risk and underprivileged 
youth has been a passion 
of his throughout his tennis career. His 
establishment of the Andre Agassi 
Foundation in 1994 to support and fund 
programs that serve underprivileged 
kids has provided much needed assistance 
to a variety of service organizations 
that work with children in the 
Las Vegas area, including the Boys & 
Girls Clubs in Las Vegas, the Assistance 
League of Las Vegas, and Child 
Haven. Since its inception, the Agassi 
Foundation has donated over $5 million 
to local youth charities. 
In today’s world of professional 
sports, it is always refreshing to see an 
athlete who recognizes the blessings 
and opportunities he has received, and 
has chosen to give something back to 
his community. In spite of a tennis career 
that has had its ups and downs, 
Andre has always had a steady hand 


S6728 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE June 8, 1999 

when it comes to helping underprivileged 
children. Andre Agassi is the 
epitome of what a professional athlete 
should be, and I ask my colleagues to 
join me in commending him for making 
tennis history and for all of his 
charitable endeavors that mean so 
much to the Las Vegas community.· 

f 


TRIBUTE TO MEYER ‘‘MIKE’’ 

BERMAN 
· Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, I rise 
to pay tribute to Meyer ‘‘Mike’’ Berman, 
a World War II veteran who demonstrated 
unusual heroism during his 
two years of service in the United 
States Army. 

Mike Berman, Private First Class, 
served as part of the 12th Infantry 
Regiment during World War II. An outstanding 
soldier, he was decorated with 
the Good Conduct Medal, the Bronze 
Star Medal with one Oak Leaf Cluster, 
the World War II Victory Medal and 
Ribbon, the European African Middle 
Eastern Campaign Medal, and a Ribbon 
with one Silver Service Star. 

However, the accomplishment Mike 
Berman is proudest of is the time he 
saved the life of his friend, Private 
John Buyers. While artillery shells 
were coming from all directions, Mike 
Berman rushed to the aid of Private 
Buyers, who had been grievously injured. 
Mike Berman singlehandedly 
carried Private Buyers by foot to the 
service jeep that transported him to 
medical aid. I ask that Private Buyers’ 
letter expressing the gratitude he felt 
towards Private Berman for saving his 
life be printed in the RECORD. 

The letter follows: 

England: Oct: 29th 1944 

DEAR MIKE: Just a few lines to say hello 
and let you know I’m coming along pretty 
good. I just wanted to thank you for what 
you done for me the day I got hit. I’ll never 
forget it. If it hadn’t been for you, I wouldn’t 
be living today. Thanks a million, ‘‘Mike.’’ 
I’ve had three operations so far and I’m pretty 
weak, but I’ll live through it. I won’t be 
with you boys’ any more but tell them all 
hello for me. Please write to me if you get a 
chance. 

Well, Mike, be good and take care of yourself. 
I sure didn’t last long, did I? Oh well! It 
was all in the cards I guess. Please excuse 
my writing. I can do better but I’m pretty 
nervous these days. Once again thanks for 
what you done for me and maybe some day, 
I’ll be able to sort of square things up. 

So long. 

Cordially, 

BUYERS. 

Mr. MOYNIHAN. It is particularly 
appropriate with the recent celebration 
of Memorial Day that we pay homage 
to truly courageous individuals like 
Mike Berman, whose faith in democracy 
and freedom for mankind have 
helped make our nation as great as it 
is today. 

The worst of times often best reveals 
the character of an individual. In the 
worst of times, Mike Berman proved 
his charity and love for his fellow man. 
He went beyond the call of duty when 
no one else dared to. 

Having come from an immigrant 
family, Mr. Berman’s achievements illustrate 
the enormous passion and desire 
America’s immigrants have to create 
a better future in their newly 
adopted country. Our recognition of 
Mr. Berman reminds us of the tremendous 
contribution that immigrants 
have made in the shaping of our Nation. 
This diverse group of extraordinary, 
enterprising, and self-sufficient 
individuals have continuously served 
to strengthen the United States.· 

f 


APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES— 
H.R. 1554 

Mr. STEVENS. I move that with respect 
to H.R. 1554, the Senate insist on 
its amendment, request a conference 
with the House, and further, the Chair 
be authorized to appoint conferees on 
the part of the Senate. 

The motion was agreed to and the 
Presiding Officer appointed from the 
Judiciary Committee: Mr. HATCH, Mr. 
THURMOND, Mr. DEWINE, Mr. LEAHY, 
and Mr. KOHL; from the Commerce, 
Science and Transportation Committee: 
Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. STEVENS, and 
Mr. HOLLINGS conferees on the part of 
the Senate. 

f 


ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9, 
1999 

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent when the Senate 
completes its business today, it stand 
in adjournment until 9:30 a.m. on 
Wednesday, June 9. I further ask that 
on Wednesday, immediately following 
the prayer, the Journal of proceedings 
be approved to date, the morning hour 
be deemed to have expired, and the 
time for the two leaders be reserved for 
their use later in the day. 

I further ask consent there then be a 
period of morning business until 11 

a.m., with Senators permitted to speak 
up to 10 minutes each, with the following 
exceptions: Senator COLLINS, 20 
minutes; Senator SMITH of New Hampshire, 
10 minutes; Senator DURBIN or 
his designee, 30 minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. STEVENS. As I understand it, 
the consent that was just entered into 
means Senator MCCAIN will be recognized 
at the close of that period of 
morning business. Is that correct? 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is 
correct. 

Mr. STEVENS. I further ask unanimous 
consent that at 11 a.m. the Senate 
begin consideration of S. 96, the 
Y2K legislation, in accordance with 
that agreement. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 


PROGRAM 

Mr. STEVENS. For the information 
of all Senators, the Senate will be in a 
period of morning business until 11 

a.m. tomorrow. By previous consent, 
the cloture vote on the motion to proceed 
to S. 96 has been vitiated, and at 
11 a.m. the Senate will begin debate on 
the important Y2K legislation. Hopefully, 
the Senate will make substantial 
progress throughout the day, and 
therefore votes on amendments can be 
expected. 
f 


ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M. 
TOMORROW 

Mr. STEVENS. If there is no further 
business to come before the Senate, I 
now ask the Senate stand in adjournment 
under the previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 6:52 p.m., adjourned until Wednesday, 
June 9, 1999, at 9:30 a.m. 

f 


NOMINATIONS 

Executive nominations received by 
the Senate June 8, 1999: 

FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD 

FRANZ S. LEICHTER, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A DIRECTOR 
OF THE FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD FOR A TERM 
EXPIRING FEBRUARY 27, 2006, VICE DANIEL F. EVANS, JR., 
TERM EXPIRED. 

DOUGLAS L. MILLER, OF SOUTH DAKOTA, TO BE A DIRECTOR 
OF THE FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD FOR 
A TERM EXPIRING FEBRUARY 27, 2002, VICE LAWRENCE U. 
COSTIGLIO, TERM EXPIRED. 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1159 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

UNITED STATES-CHINA TRADE 
RELATIONS 

HON. CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, the 
Administration’s toothless human rights policy 
towards China has failed miserably. In the five 
years since President Clinton de-linked China’s 
MFN status from human rights considerations, 
there has been regression—not 
progress—within China. Even standing apart 
from new revelations of nuclear espionage 
and the skyrocketing U.S.-China trade deficit, 
this deteriorating situation justifies a fundamental 
reassessment of U.S.-China trade policy. 
A couple of examples may help flesh out 
the seriousness of the matter. 

In 1992 the U.S. and Chinese Governments 
signed a Memorandum of Understanding 
(MOU) prohibiting trade in slave-made goods, 
which was followed by a 1994 Statement of 
Cooperation. Notwithstanding those agreements 
and China’s own laws against slave-
made exports, Beijing is turning the Laogai— 
the Chinese Gulag—into a profit-making venture. 
Slave-made products—from office supplies 
to Christmas decorations—regularly 
make their way to the shelves of American 
stores. Even the State Department has been 
forced to admit that ‘‘[f]orced labor is a problem’’ 
and that China’s cooperation with the 
MOU ‘‘has been inadequate.’’ Indeed, the Department 
reports that in every case where the 
United States asked to visit a suspect facility 
during 1998, ‘‘the [Chinese] Ministry of Justice 
refused the request, ignored it, or simply denied 
the allegations made without further 
elaboration.’’ In short, the MOU is not worth 
the paper it is written on. 

Similarly, in October 1998, the Chinese regime 
signed the International Covenant on 
Civil and Political Rights. Taking the bait, the 
Administration used China’s promise to sign 
the ICCPR as a reason not to raise China’s 
human rights violations at last year’s meeting 
of the UN Human Rights Commission. The 
Administration heralded China’s signature as 
an improvement—something that would lay 
the groundwork for future human rights accountability 
within China. Admittedly, the 
ICCPR contains many worthwhile guarantees, 
such as the right of political self-determination 
(Article 1), the basic rights of criminal defendants 
(Article 14), the right of free expression 
(Article 19), and the right to free elections (Article 
25). But within two months after signing 
the ICCPR, the Chinese government violated 
each of those provisions in a brutal, systematic 
crackdown on democratic dissent that 
continues to this day. In fact, in the last month 
alone, Chinese officials have detained over 
150 dissidents. 

The slave labor MOU and the ICCPR signing 
are only two of many examples. But they 
illustrate a fundamental lesson that we ignore 
at our peril: When dealing with the Communist 

dictatorship of the People’s Republic of China, 
the United States cannot settle for paper 
promises or deferred compliance. We must 
stop accepting pledges of future improvement 
in place of actual improvements. The Chinese 
dictatorship regularly tells bold-faced lies 
about the way it treats its own people, such as 
by asserting that no one died at Tiananmen 
Square, and that there is complete religious 
freedom in China. How, then, can we take its 
word when it comes to matters of mere commerce? 
We cannot. Reforms within China 
must precede the rewards of WTO membership, 
and should be a prerequisite for annual 
MFN status. 

When I say ‘‘reforms,’’ I do not mean only 
economic reforms. We must also demand respect 
for the basic rights of the Chinese people. 
The Administration’s policy of so-called 
‘‘constructive engagement’’ on behalf of 
human rights has been a disaster, even according 
to the Administration’s own benchmarks. 


In quarterly reports, Amnesty International 
has been tracking the seven human rights policy 
goals that President Clinton publicly announced 
before his trip to Beijing in 1998. 
Those reports detail a complete lack of 
progress in all categories, and even some regression, 
during the past year: Release all 
prisoners of conscience and Tiananmen 
Square prisoners: ‘‘Total failure, Regression’’; 
review all ‘‘Counter-Revolutionary’’ Prison 
terms: ‘‘Total failure, no Progress’’; allow religious 
freedom: ‘‘Total failure, no progress’’; 
prevent coercive family planning and harvesting 
of organs: ‘‘No progress’’; fully implement 
pledges on human rights treaties; ‘‘No 
progress’’; review the ‘‘Re-education through 
labor’’ system: ‘‘Total failure, no progress’’; 
and end police and prison brutality: ‘‘Total failure, 
no progress’’. 

The Communist government of the PRC 
continues to engage in systematic violations of 
basic human rights on a massive scale. It 
does not allow significant political dissent. It 
prohibits the free exercise of religion and imprisons 
religious leaders, ranging from the 10year-
old Panchen Lama to the elderly Catholic 
Bishop Su of Baoding Province. It summarily 
executes political prisoners in the Xinjiang 
Uighur Autonomous Region. It harvests and 
sells the internal organs of executed prisoners. 
It forces women who have ‘‘unauthorized’’ 
pregnancies to abort their children and submit 
to sterilization. It continues to brutalize the indigenous 
peoples of Tibet and East Turkestan. 

The failure of the Administration’s current 
policy to effect any improvement should come 
as no surprise. While the rulers of the Chinese 
Communist Party may be ruthless and despotic, 
they are not stupid. If there are no costs 
associated with the brutality that keeps them 
in power, then they have no incentive to become 
less brutal. 

Thus, when big business and the Clinton 
Administration really want to change Beijing’s 
conduct—for instance, in the effort to get 
China to respect international copyright—what 
do they do? Do they decide that we should be 

patient, that we should constructively engage 
for a few years, and sooner or later Beijing will 
come around? No. They use economic sanctions—
the very same sanctions they say 
would be counterproductive as a means of 
promoting political and religious freedom in 
China. I am aware of at least three occasions 
since 1991 when the U.S. Trade Representative 
threatened to impose billions of dollars in 
sanctions to vindicate U.S. intellectual property 
interests. In each of those cases, when faced 
with the sanctions, the Chinese government 
changed its behavior. 

By their actions, big business and the Clinton 
administration show their faith in sanctions. 
By their reactions, Chinese leaders 
show the efficacy of sanctions. Thus, the 
question before us is not ‘‘Can economic 
sanctions work?’’ It is, ‘‘Why do we use sanctions 
to protect software, but not human life; to 
protect musical recordings but not fundamental 
political and religious freedoms; to stop 
movie piracy, but not torture?’’ In all the years 
I have been asking that question, I have not 
yet heard a good answer. 

We have abandoned the American ideals of 
freedom and democracy for the sake of marginally 
cheaper consumer goods. We have 
squandered our patrimony of liberty for the 
profit of corporations who want access to China’s 
inexpensive labor market. The people of 
the United States are waking up to this reality 
and, I believe, will no longer stand for it. 

It is time to do an about face, to condition 
expanded trade relations upon respect for 
internationally recognized, fundamental human 
rights. American interests and American values 
demand no less. 

f 


FINANCIAL INCENTIVES ON DOCTORS 
NOT TO PROVIDE CARE: 
FEDERAL COURT EXPLAINS THE 
DANGERS: REASONS WHY WE 
SHOULD PASS H.R. 1375 

HON. FORTNEY PETE STARK 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, recently, I introduced 
H.R. 1375, a bill to limit the amount of 
financial pressure an HMO can place on a 
doctor to discourage referrals and testing. A 
recent Federal Appeals Court case provides 
new documentation on why we should pass 
such legislation. 

Current regulations allow an HMO to withhold 
up to 25% of a doctor’s compensation as 
a way to discourage ‘‘unnecessary’’ treatment. 
The problem is, such ‘‘withholds‘‘ can discourage 
necessary as well as unnecessary treatments 
and tests. My bill would limit any HMO 
‘‘withhold‘‘ to 10% and encourage the use of 
quality measures as the basis of payments to 
doctors. 

On August 18, 1998, the US 7th Circuit 
issued a majority opinion in the case of 
Herdrich v. Pegram, Carle Clinic Association, 

· This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E1160 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks June 8, 1999 

and Health Alliance Medical Plans. Following 
are portions of that opinion—exhibit #1 for why 
we need a national policy limiting HMOs and 
medical plans for putting too much financial 
pressure on doctors. 

On March 7, 1991, Pegram, Herdrich’s doctor, 
discovered a six by eight centimeter 
‘‘mass’’ (later determined to be her appendix) 
in Herdrich’s abdomen. Although the mass 
was inflamed on March 7, Pegram delayed instituting 
an immediate treatment of 
Herdrich, and forced her to wait more than 
one week (eight days) to obtain the accepted 
diagnostic procedure (ultrasound) used to determine 
the nature, size and exact location 
of the mass. Ideally, Herdrich should have 
had the ultrasound administered with all 
speed after the inflamed mass was discovered 
in her abdomen in order that her condition 
could be diagnosed and treated before deteriorating 
as it did, but Carle’s policy requires 
plan participants to receive medical 
care from Carle-staffed facilities in what 
they classify as ‘‘non-emergency’’ situations. 
Because Herdrich’s treatment was considered 
to be ‘‘non-emergency,’’ she was forced to 
wait the eight days before undergoing the 
ultrasound at a Carle facility in Urbana, Illinois. 
During this unnecessary waiting period, 
Herdrich’s health problems were exacerbated 
and the situation rapidly turned into 
an ‘‘emergency’’—her appendix ruptured, resulting 
in the onset of peritonitis. In an effort 
to defray the increased costs associated 
with the surgery required to drain and 
cleanse Herdrich’s ruptured appendix, Carle 
insisted that she have the procedure performed 
at its own Urbana facility, necessitating 
that Herdrich travel more than fifty 
miles from her neighborhood hospital in 
Bloomington, Illinois. The ‘‘market forces’’ 
the dissent refers to hardly seem to have 
produced a positive result in this case— 
Herdrich suffered a life-threatening illness 
(peritonitis), which necessitated a longer 
hospital stay and more serious surgery at a 
greater cost to her and the Plan. And, as discussed 
below, we are far from alone in our 
belief that market forces are insufficient to 
cure the deleterious affects of managed care 
on the health care industry. 

Across the country, health care critics and 
consumers are complaining that the quality 
of medical treatment in this nation is rapidly 
declining, leaving ‘‘a fear that the goal 
of managing care has been replaced by the 
goal of managing costs.’’ (Jan Greene, Has 
Managed Care Lost Its Soul? Health Maintenance 
Organizations Focus More on Finances, 
Less on Care, Am. Hosp. Publishing 
Inc., May 20, 1997.) 

An increasing number of Americans believe 
that dollars are more important than 
people in the evolving [HMO] system. Whether 
justified or not, this assumption needs to 
be taken seriously, according to keepers of 
the industry’s conscience. University of 
Pennsylvania bioethicist Arthur Caplan argues 
that managed care should take a lesson 
from professional sports, which has alienated 
some fans because money and profits have 
eclipsed the reasons why fans are about the 
games: hero worship and the virtues of teamwork, 
loyalty and trust-worthiness. The 
same goes for doctors. ‘‘People go to their 
doctor not because he’s a good businessman 
. . . but because he’s a good advocate, someone 
we can admire,’’ says Caplan. ‘‘If we 
have to struggle with him to get what we 
want, we will have no trust anymore.’’ 

To regain trust, HMOs need to be more 
sensitive to the doctor-patient relationship 
and remove the physician from direct financial 
interest in patient care, says Caplan. Instead, 
doctors should have a predetermined 
budget and be able to advocate for patients 
without direct personal gain or loss. 

Another hot-button issue for HMO members 
is the fear that a lifesaving experimental 
procedure will be denied because of 
its cost. Caplan says the industry should follow 
the lead of the handful of HMOs that 
have established outside, independent panels 
to make final decisions. 

Even care providers fear that they ‘‘have 
become somewhat preoccupied with [their] 
ownership status and consequently have not 
paid as much attention as [they] should have 
to improving [their] basic core competencies.’’ 
(Id.) The specter of money concerns 
driving the health care system, says a 
group of Massachusetts physicians and 
nurses, ‘‘threatens to transform healing from 
a covenant into a business contract. Canons 
of commerce are displacing dictates of healing, 
trampling our professions’ most sacred 
values. Market medicine treats patients as 
profit centers.’’ (For Our Patients, Not for 
Profits: A Call to Action, JAMA, Dec. 3, 1997, 
at 1773.) As one professional stated, ‘‘It’s too 
bad. We used to spend most of our time worrying 
about how to do a better job. Now we 
worry about doing a better job at a lower 
price.’’ (Id.) 

Thousands of American physicians and 
nurses, outraged by the increasingly ‘‘corporate’’ 
nature of American medicine, recently 
staged a reenactment of the Boston 
Tea Party by symbolically dumping $1 million 
each minute into Boston Harbor to 
dramatize the amount of health care money 
that is being wasted to pay for HMO marketing, 
profits, and administrative salaries. 
See Id. 

The shift to profit-driven care is at a gallop. 
For nurses and physicians, the space for 
good work in a bad system rapidly narrows. 
For the public, who are mostly healthy and 
use little care, awareness of the degradation 
of medicine builds slowly; it is mainly those 
who are expensively ill who encounter the 
dark side of market-driven health care. We 
criticize market medicine not to obscure or 
excuse the failings of the past, but to warn 
that the changes afoot push nursing and 
medicine farther from caring, fairness, and 
efficiency. 

Another commentator observed that 
‘‘American ‘market theology’ is being invoked 
as an excuse for the downgrading of 
patient care and the growing absence of compassion 
in health care.’’ (Bob LeBow, Nation 
Needs to Take Control of Health Care System 
for Patients, not Profits, Idaho Statesman, 
Dec. 2, 1997, at 6A). Instead of providing 
health care, doctors are forced to ‘‘spend 
many hours persuading health insurance 
companies that we are not trying to manipulate 
them into paying more money than 
Medicare does for kidney transplants.’’ (Gabriel 
M. Danovitch, et al., And How the Decisions 
Are Made, 331 New Eng. J. Med., at 331– 
32 (1984).) 

In order to minimize health care costs and 
fatten corporate profits for HMOs, primary 
care physicians face severe restrictions on 
referrals and diagnostic tests, and at the 
same time, must contend with ever-shrinking 
incomes. 

Sixty percent of all managed-care plans, 
including HMOs and preferred-provider organizations, 
now pay their primary-care doctors 
through some sort of ‘‘capitation’’ system, 
according to the Physician Payment 
Review Commission in Washington, D.C. 
That is, rather than simply pay any bill presented 
to them by your doctor, most HMOs 
pay their physicians a set amount every 
month—a fee for including you among their 
patients. At Chicago’s GIA Primary Care 
Network, for instance, physicians get $8.43 
each month for every male patient . . . and 
$10.09 for every female patient. . . Some 
HMOs, such as Oxford Health Plans, Cigna 
and Aetna, have ‘‘withhold’’ systems, in 

which a percentage of the doctors’s monthly 
fees are withheld and then reimbursed if 
they keep their referral rates low enough. 
Others, like U.S. Healthcare, pay bonuses for 
low referral rates. (John Protos, Ten Things 
Your HMO Won’t Tell You, Inside, June 30, 
1997, at 44.) 

There is ample evidence that the bottom-
line mentality is taking over. HMOs refer to 
the proportion of premiums they pay out for 
patient care as their ‘‘medical-loss ratio’’—a 
chilling choice of words. The Association of 
American Medical Colleges reported last November 
that medical-loss ratios of for-profit 
HMOs paying a flat fee to doctors for treatment 
averaged only 70% of their premium 
revenue. The remaining 30% went for administrative 
expenses—and profit. 

* * * * * 

Along the same lines as its ‘‘market 
forces’’ argument, the dissent submits that 
the defendants’ plan ‘‘encouraged physicians 
to use resources more efficiently.’’ Although 
we agree, at least in principle, with the idea 
that financial incentives may very well bring 
about a more effective use of plan assets, we 
certainly are far from confident that it was 
at work in this particular case. The Carle 
health plan at issue was not used as efficiently 
as it should have been. Indeed, the 
eight-day delay in medical care, and the 
onset of peritonitis Herdrich incurred as a 
result of such delay in diagnosis, subjected 
her to a life threatening illness, a longer period 
of hospitalization and treatment, more 
extensive, invasive and dangerous surgery, 
increased hospitalization costs, and a greater 
ingestion of prescription drugs. 

The dissent also somehow contends that 
‘‘ERISA tolerates some conflict of interest 
on the part of fiduciaries,’’ and therefore, 
‘‘allowing a plan sponsor to designate its 
own agent as a fiduciary reassures the sponsor 
that, in devoting its assets to the plan, it 
has not relinquished all ability to ensure 
that the plan’s resources are used wisely.’’ 

* * * * * 

A doctor who is responsible for the real-life 
financial demands of providing for his or her 
family—sending four children to school 
(whether it be college, high school or primary 
school), making house payments, covering 
office overhead, and paying malpractice 
insurance—might very well ‘‘flinch’’ 
at the prospect of obtaining a relatively substantial 
bonus for himself or herself. Here, 
the Carle physicians were intimately involved 
with the financial well-being of the 
enterprise in that the yearly ‘‘kickback’’ 
was paid to Carle physicians only if the annual 
expenditure made by physicians on benefits 
was less than total plan receipts. According 
to the complaint, Carle doctors 
stood to gain financially when they were 
able to limit treatment and referrals. Due to 
the dual-loyalties at work, Carle doctors 
were faced with an incentive to limit costs 
so as to guarantee a greater kickback. 

* * * * * 

In summary, we hold that the language of 
the plaintiff’s complaint is sufficient in alleging 
that the defendant’s incentive system 
depleted plan resources so as to benefit physicians 
who, coincidentally, administered 
the Plan, possibly to the detriment of their 
patients. The ultimate determination of 
whether the defendants violated their fiduciary 
obligations to act solely in the interest 
of the Plan participants and beneficiaries, 
see 29 U.S.C. §1104(a)(1), must be left to the 
trial court. On the surface, it does not appear 
to us that it was in the interest of plan 
participants for the defendants to deplete 
the Plan’s funds by way of year-end bonus 
payouts. Based on the record we have before 
us, we hold that the plaintiff has alleged sufficiently 
a breach of the defendants’ fiduciary 
duty. 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1161 

IN SPECIAL RECOGNITION OF 
CULLEN T. GALLAGHER ON HIS 
APPOINTMENT TO ATTEND THE 
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE 
ACADEMY 

HON. PAUL E. GILLMOR 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. GILLMOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay special tribute to a truly outstanding young 
man from Ohio’s Fifth Congressional District. 
Recently, I had the opportunity to nominate 
Cullen T. Gallagher for an appointment to attend 
the United States Air Force Academy in 
Colorado Springs, Colorado. 

I am pleased to announce that Cullen has 
been offered an appointment and will be attending 
the Air Force Academy with the incoming 
cadet class of 2003. Attending one of 
our Nation’s military academies is one of the 
most rewarding and demanding time periods 
these young men and women will ever undertake. 
Our military academies turn these young 
adults into the finest officers in the world. 

Mr. Speaker, Cullen has demonstrated the 
kind of leadership and dedication needed to 
enter the Air Force Academy with the class of 
2003. While attending Perkins High School in 
Sandusky, Ohio, Cullen excelled academically 
attaining a grade point average of 3.795, 
which ranks him forty-first in his class of one-
hundred sixty students. Cullen is a member of 
the National Honor Society, the Academic 
Challenge Team, and the Who’s Who Among 
American High School Students. In October, 
1998, Cullen was named the Rotary Club’s 
Student of the Month. 

In addition, he attended the National Youth 
Leadership Forum on Law and the Constitution 
in Washington, D.C., and attended the 
United States Air Force Academy Summer 
Scientific Seminar. Outside the classroom, 
Cullen is the president of the Ski Club, and is 
a member of the Spanish Club, Drama Club, 
Marching Band, and Show Choir. On the fields 
of competition, Cullen is a member of the Perkins 
High School Varsity Cross Country and 
Tennis teams. 

Mr. Speaker, at this point, I would ask my 
colleagues to stand and join me in paying special 
tribute to Cullen T. Gallagher. Our service 
academies offer the finest education and military 
training available anywhere in the world. 
I am sure that Cullen will do very well at the 
Air Force Academy, and I wish him much success 
in all of his future endeavors. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO WESTLAKE HILLS 
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 

HON. BRAD SHERMAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
celebrate the designation of Westlake Hills Elementary 
School as a United States Department 
of Education National Blue Ribbon 
School. 

The Blue Ribbon Award for Educational Excellence 
recognizes a school’s achievement in 
all facets of academic development including 
teacher training, student achievement, edu


cational innovation, and community involvement. 


Westlake Hills Elementary School has far 
transcended the norm in all these areas and 
has demonstrated its deep commitment to 
molding well rounded, socially conscious leaders 
for the 21st century through its outstanding 
range of programs. 

Westlake Hills teachers frequently participate 
in workshops and conferences on a wide 
range of educational issues, showing the tremendous 
value Westlake Hills places on maintaining 
the high caliber of its faculty and keeping 
its teachers abreast of new idea in education. 
These teachers then employ these 
ideas in the classroom, resulting in projects including 
a 6th grade ‘‘wax museum’’ and a 1st 
grade ‘‘dinosaur dig.’’ In addition, Westlake 
Hills recognizes the importance of involving a 
child’s first and most influential teachers in the 
learning experience, with 75% of Westlake 
Hills parents logging in an astounding 12,000 
hours of volunteer time. 

These efforts are reflected in the test scores 
of the student body, which place Westlake 
Hills above all the other elementary schools in 
its district. Westlake Hills has also answered 
President Clinton’s ‘‘America Reads Challenge’’ 
by forging a partnership with nearby 
Pepperdine University, in order to ensure that 
each and every child can read both independently 
and effectively. 

Along with its demonstrated excellence in 
the classroom, Westlake Hills realizes the importance 
of extracurricular activities in creating 
the ‘‘total’’ student. Over 200 children participate 
in clubs for subjects including drama, 
physical fitness, and Spanish. A club also exists 
for computers, making use of the school’s 
technology center. 

Westlake Hills believes that their goal in 
forming the ‘‘total’’ student would also be incomplete 
without instilling in the students a 
sense of their responsibilities as members of 
their local community. They have joined General 
Colin Powell’s ‘‘Make a Difference’’ volunteer 
program, where the children share their 
time assisting senior citizens. 

Mr. Speaker, distinguished colleagues, 
please join me in celebrating the recognition of 
Westlake Hills Elementary School as a National 
Blue Ribbon School. It is a prime example 
of the extremely positive effects which a 
partnership between all members of a school 
community can produce. Westlake Hills’ approach 
to public education is a paradigm 
which all American schools should strive to 
emulate. 

f 


A TRIBUTE TO THE DE JONG 
FAMILY 

HON. RANDY ‘‘DUKE’’ CUNNINGHAM 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to pay tribute to the de Jong family of 
San Diego County, California. Over the last 
few years, I have had the privilege of working 
with Arie de Jong and other members of a 
family that epitomizes the American success 
story. The de Jong’s are close friends to 
America, which has given them the opportunity 
to lead and succeed. 

On May 26, the de Jong family celebrated 
50 years of American heritage with a reunion 

in Poway, California. Since 1948, when Tom 
de Jong moved to America, the de Jong family 
has been an important piece of San Diego’s 
community. 

I have attached an article from the online 
edition of the San Diego Union Tribune that 
explains more family history and this recent 
celebration. 

In addition, I want to extend my personal 
congratulations on their first 50 years in American 
history, and wish them health and happiness 
for the next 50 years. 

FAR-FLUNG FAMILY MEETS, MARKS 50 YEARS 
IN U.S. 
(By John Berhman) 
POWAY—The de Jong family is a coming-
to-America success story. 

Fifty years ago, from their native Holland, 
the family—a mother, father and 10 children—
traveled across the United States to a 
relative’s sparse cattle ranch here. From 
that beginning, they grew into one of the 
most successful and well-known families in 
North County. 

The family’s Hollandia Dairy in San 
Marcos in an institution. Family members 
have spread out all over California and the 
country, many of them working in the dairy 
business. 

Yesterday, many of them returned to their 
American roots, celebrating 50 years of being 
in this country with a family reunion where 
it all started. 

They met at Old Wyoming Picnic Grounds, 
the family homestead at the end of Old 
Pomerado Road in south Poway. They gathered 
around shady oak trees and three stone 
buildings that served as the family’s first 
homes in this country to reminisce and give 
thanks. 

It is quite an extended family now. From 
10 brothers and sisters have come 54 children 
and nearly 100 grandchildren, most of whom 
are expected during the reunion. About five 
family members, mostly cousins, are attending 
from Holland. Other family members 
have come from Oregon, Michigan, New Mexico 
and various parts of California. 

‘‘This is wonderful. This is what family 
and friends are all about. And, this great 
country. We feel so privileged to be a part of 
this country,’’ Tom de Jong, at 73 the oldest 
of the 10 brothers and sisters, said yesterday 
at the kickoff of the event. 

Tom was the first of the family to come to 
America. That was in 1948, when he took a 
job working on his uncle Sam Bruinsma’s 
ranch in what is now Poway. Bruinsma was 
married to Tom’s father’s twin sister, Tante 
Jet. 

Impressed with America and the opportunities 
it offered, Tom wrote to his parents, 
insisting they join him. 

The rest of the family did indeed follow the 
oldest son, arriving in New York on May 26, 
1949. This week’s reunion—expected to draw 
more than 200 de Jongs and close friends— 
marks the 50th anniversary of that event. 

‘‘I will never forget that day,’’ Arie de 
Jong, 60, perhaps the best known of the clan, 
said yesterday. ‘‘The Statue of Liberty and 
that New York skyline—and coming to 
America. 

‘‘America has been good to us.’’ 

Arie, after helping his family start the 
Hollandia Dairy, became a millionaire in the 
trash-hauling business. Among the possessions 
he has acquired are the three stone 
structures in Poway that his family first 
lived in. 

The reunion, the first of its kind for the 
family, was Arie’s idea. 

‘‘It’s really for the kids and the grandkids 
through,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s to show them where 
their family started in this country.’’ 


E1162 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks June 8, 1999 

Arie has arranged a busy schedule that included 
a barbecue picnic last night at the old 
family homestead, a trip to Catalina today 
and tomorrow, another barbecue and picnic 
Saturday at nearby Big Stone Lodge, and 
church on Sunday followed by final farewells. 


f 


A TRIBUTE TO H. GAYLON 
GREENHILL 

HON. PAUL RYAN 

OF WISCONSIN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor a distinguished public servant. 

H. Gaylon Greenhill, Chancellor of the University 
of Wisconsin-Whitewater, has decided to 
retire after 37 years of dedicated service to 
the institution and our region. Chancellor 
Greenhill has done so much to advance the 
cause of higher education in Wisconsin, and it 
is for his service that I salute him today. 
H. Gaylon Greenhill has served in a variety 
of capacities at the University of Wisconsin-
Whitewater throughout his tenure. Before 
being appointed chancellor in 1991, he served 
as Chairman of the Political Science department, 
Dean of Summer School and Extension 
Services, Acting Dean of the College of Letters 
and Sciences, Vice Chancellor for Academic 
and Student Affairs, and Vice Chancellor 
and Dean of Faculties. 
Chancellor Greenhill received his Bachelor’s 
degree in Social Studies at University of Wisconsin-
River Falls and earned his Master’s 
and Doctorate degree in Political Science from 
the University of Illinois. He was a Fulbright 
Scholar at the University of Oslo from 1960– 
61. 

During his tenure as chancellor at UW-
Whitewater, the university developed and implemented 
the campus exterior plan, constructed 
the Irvin L. Young Auditorium, renovated 
the James R. Connor University Center 
and Hyer Hall, and made major technological 
advances such as the construction of a fiber 
optic computer network, the addition of numerous 
workstations in computer labs and the 
complete wiring of the residence halls. 

Under Chancellor Greenhill’s leadership, 
UW-Whitewater has been ranked in U.S. 
News & World Report’s top tier of midwestern 
regional universities for five consecutive years. 
UW-Whitewater has also recently received accreditation 
from the North Central Association 
and National Council for Accreditation of 
Teacher Education. 

Chancellor Greenhill initiated the Excellence 
for the 21st Century Campaign to raise $10 
million for scholarships and university betterment. 
Not only did UW-Whitewater surpass 
this goal, it did it two years early and had $2.4 
million in excess. 

Chancellor Greenhill will retire from UW-
Whitewater effective June 30, 1999. I know 
that I speak for everyone in the UW-Whitewater 
family when I wish him and his family 
well as they begin this new and exciting stage 
in their lives together. Thank you for your 
service to your community, Chancellor, and 
thank you for what you have done for the university. 


IN HONOR OF THE LATE MAJOR 
JOHN B. MAHAN 

HON. SCOTT McINNIS 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. MCINNIS. Mr. Speaker, it is with a 
heavy-heart that I wish to take this moment to 
recognize the life and career of one of The 
United States’ great men, Major John B. 
Mahan. Sadly, Major John Mahan died after 
suffering a stroke in 1995. While his family 
and friends remember the truly exceptional life 
of Major Mahan, I, too, would like to pay tribute 
to this remarkable man. 

Major John B. Mahan served proudly in the 

U.S. Army from 1938 until his retirement in 
1961. During that time, he served in North Africa. 
While in North Africa, Major Mahan was 
wounded and had to spend months in a stateside 
hospital to recover. In the Marine Division, 
Major Mahan served in the Korean War 
as a liaison officer/transportation officer in 
some of the war’s most intense months. 
Later in his life, Major Mahan was stationed 
at Fort Carson as company commander. In 
1957, he was chosen to be the Commandant 
of Cadets in the R.O.T.C program for the Denver 
Public School District. Major Mahan put 
his all into the R.O.T.C. program, running it 
until his retiremment. 

Although his professional accomplishments 
will long be remembered and admired, most 
who knew him well remember Major John 
Mahan, above all else, as a friend, It is clear 
that he is truly missed, yet his family can take 
solace in the knowledge that each is a better 
person for having known Major John Mahan. 

f 


ANOTHER REASON WE NEED A RX 

BENEFIT FOR EVERYONE IN 

MEDICARE 

HON. FORTNEY PETE STARK 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, a number of us 
have introduced H.R. 1495, a bill to provide a 
prescription drug for everyone in Medicare. A 
provision in that bill requires a system to prevent 
drug errors and the use of contraindicated 
drugs. 

Over-prescription and reactions among multiple 
prescriptions costs Americans billions of 
dollars a year in illness—and thousands of 
deaths. If we can reduce those errors, the 
total health care system can make enormous 
savings. 

A new article in the May/June 1999 issue of 
the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical 
Association provides another example of why 
we should improve the quality of drug use 
among all Medicare beneficiaries. Following is 
the abstract of Rajender Aparasu’s study entitled. 
‘‘Visits to Office-Based Physicians in the 
United States for Medication-Related Morbidity.’’ 


Objective: To examine the prevalence, nature, 
demographics, and resource use associated 
with visits to office-based physicians in 
the United States during 1995 for medication-
related morbidity. 

Design: A nationwide cross-sectional survey 
of ambulatory care visits to physician 

offices, based on data from the National Center 
for Health Statistics’ 1995 National Ambulatory 
Medical Care Survey. 

Setting: Physician office-based settings in 
the United States. 

Patients: Patients visiting office-based 
physicians for principal diagnoses of adverse 
effect of medications (ICD–9–CM E-code 
930.00–947.9). 

Main Outcome Measures: Weighted measures 
of prevalence, nature, demographics, 
and resource use associated with visits related 
to adverse effects of medications. 

Results: An estimated 2.01 million (95% 
confidence interval, 1.69 to 2.34 million) visits 
for medication-related morbidity were 
made to office-based physicians in the 
United States during 1995, representing an 
annual rate of 7.70 visits per 1,000 persons. 
Medication-related visit rates were greater 
in women, in patients between 65 to 74 years 
of age, and in the Midwest. The most frequently 
cited reasons for medication-related 
visits were skin rash, nausea, and shortness 
of breath. The therapeutic agents responsible 
for medication-related visits were most often 
hormone and synthetic substitutes (13.32%), 
antibiotics (11.55%), and cardiovascular 
drugs (9.30%). Medication-related visits most 
often involved diagnostic services and medication 
therapy. The majority included instructions 
for a scheduled follow-up, and 
fewer than 1% resulted in hospital admission. 


Conclusion: Medication-related ambulatory 
care utilization can pose a significant 
burden on health care resources unless specific 
strategies are initiated to control medication-
related problems. The provision of 
pharmaceutical care can play an important 
role in reducing medication-related problems 
and associated health care costs. 

f 


IN SPECIAL RECOGNITION OF ELBERT 
GILL IN CELEBRATION OF 
HIS RETIREMENT FROM THE OTTAWA 
COUNTY BOARD OF ELECTIONS 


HON. PAUL E. GILLMOR 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. GILLMOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay a very special tribute to one of the truly 
outstanding individuals from Ohio’s Fifth Congressional 
District, Mr. Elbert Gill. On Monday, 
May 31, 1999, Elbert Gill will retire from service 
as Chairman of the Ottawa County Board 
of Elections. 

Elbert Gill has certainly been a valuable 
asset to the Ottawa County Board of Elections. 
Since joining the Board of Elections in 
March 1989, Mr. Gill has worked diligently to 
serve the voters of Ottawa County in every 
manner possible. Whether it is his generosity 
in taking the staff to meetings or assisting with 
trouble-shooting on election night, Elbert Gill 
has given unselfishly of his time and helped 
make Ottawa County one of the best Boards 
of Elections in the state of Ohio. 

Mr. Speaker, Elbert Gill embodies the very 
spirit of American workmanship through his 
conscientious attention to detail. In his job as 
Chairman of the Ottawa County Board of Elections, 
Mr. Gill has epitomized the word that 
best describes him—service. Although he is 
retiring after ten years on the board, his hard 
work, commitment, and dedication to the citizens 
of Ottawa County will continue long into 
the future. 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1163 

Mr. Speaker, it has often been said that 
America succeeds due to the remarkable accomplishments 
and contributions of her citizens. 
It is very evident that Elbert Gill has 
given freely of his time and energy to assist in 
the preservation of American ideals. Our electoral 
process is the backbone of our nation, 
and those individuals, like Elbert Gill, who 
work hard to make that system free and 
democratic are true American patriots. 

Mr. Speaker, at this time, I would urge my 
colleagues to stand and join me in paying special 
tribute to Elbert Gill. On the occasion of 
his retirement as Chairman of the Ottawa 
County Board of Elections, we thank him for 
his service and we wish him all the best in the 
future. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO JUSTICE FOR 
HOMICIDE VICTIMS 

HON. BRAD SHERMAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to Justice for Homicide Victims. 
The Board of Directors of the California Center 
for Family Survivors of Homicide, which includes 
its action arm, Justice for Homicide 
Victims has been a constant advocate for victims 
rights. 

Today, we honor those who make it possible 
to help create a working environment 
with legislators so victims and their survivors 
may attain equal rights. Marcella Leach, Executive 
Director of JHV, is one of the many dedicated 
individuals who help to make the public 
and legislators alike aware of the need for victims 
rights. 

Justice for Homicide Victims was founded in 
1984 by Ellen Griffin Dunne. The first goal of 
JHV was to establish a public perception that 
those who commit serious or malicious crimes 
should be punished accordingly. 

JHV has been working tirelessly to effect 
legislative change. As a result, JHV helped implement 
a newly passed Victims Bill of Rights. 
In addition to support services through their 
hotline and at murder trials, JHV cooperates 
with the District Attorney’s office on a regular 
basis which results in positive relationship and 
spreads JHV’s goals and objectives. 

JHV has worked for many years to educate 
and inform legislators on many aspects of the 
law. This year, JHV was honored to be the 
most organization for the Governor’s Crime 
Summit and their efforts helped in the passage 
of legislation that was previously thought 
to be unattainable. 

Mr. Speaker, distinguished colleagues, 
please join me in celebrating the success of 
the California Center for Family Survivors of 
Homicide and Justice for Homicide Victims. 

f 


LEGISLATION HONORING FALLEN 
FIREFIGHTERS 

HON. PAUL RYAN 

OF WISCONSIN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, today 
I am introducing a resolution honoring fire


fighters throughout our nation that have died 
in the line of duty. It is appropriate that the 
Congress pay its respect to these individuals. 

Just last week, the District of Columbia lost 
two brave and dedicated public servants. Firefighter 
Anthony Phillips died while fighting a 
fire at a DC town house. Firefighter Louis Matthews 
died days later from burns sustained 
while fighting the same blaze. 

There are over 1.1 million firefighters on active 
duty everyday in the United States, and 
over the last 10 years, we have lost 1,109 of 
these courageous individuals to circumstances 
associated with doing their job. 

Almost a month ago, the National Fire Protection 
Agency announced that 91 firefighters 
died in the line of duty during the year 1998. 
That is the lowest number of deaths in the last 
10 years, and one of the lowest totals on 
record. While we are pleased to see the number 
of deaths decrease, clearly all Americans 
look forward to the day when we don’t lose a 
single firefighter. 

These brave individuals, many of whom 
serve as volunteers without compensation, risk 
their lives daily to insure that we can exit safety 
from our homes when they catch fire and 
provide life-saving care when we are injured in 
an accident. It is for these reasons that we 
honor these courageous individuals. 

I trust my colleagues will join me in paying 
tribute to those who have made the ultimate 
sacrifice, both in the District I serve, and all 
across the nation. 

f 


IN HONOR OF THE LATE STAFF 

SERGEANT ALVIN W. PLASTER 

HON. SCOTT McINNIS 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. MCINNIS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
take a moment to recognize a man who exemplified 
courage and determination, Staff Sergeant 
Alvin W. Plaster. Tragically, Alvin Plaster 
died in 1996 after a long battle with a 
grave illness. While family and friends remember 
the truly exceptional life of Staff Sergeant 
Alvin W. Plaster, I, too, would like to pay tribute 
to this remarkable man. 

Persistence and dedication displayed on the 
part of Alvin Plaster is what got him into the 
Army. Failing the physical examination twice, 
he convinced an Army physician to bend the 
rules slightly and let him enlist. From 1942 to 
1945, Alvin Plaster was Staff Sergeant in the 
Quartermaster Corps. He served with integrity, 
enthusiasm, and most of all, pride. 

Individuals such as Alvin Plaster, who contribute 
selflessly, are a rare breed. Though his 
family and friends no doubt mourn his absence, 
they have all gained immensely 
through knowing Alvin W. Plaster. 

f 


CHILD SAFETY AND YOUTH 
VIOLENCE PREVENTION ACT 

HON. JAMES E. ROGAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. ROGAN. Mr. Speaker, today, the House 
Judiciary Committee will introduce legislation 

designed to help fight the scourge of violence 
among young people. Included in this bill is a 
proposal I authored with my colleague ROD 
BLAGOJEVICH of Illinois. 

Our plan, HR 1717, known as the Violent 
Youth Offender Accountability Act, will prohibit 
violent juvenile felons from ever purchasing a 
firearm. Under current law, many states permit 
juveniles who have been convicted of violent 
felonies to have their criminal records expunged 
upon reaching age 18. As a result, it 
is perfectly legal for a juvenile with a record as 
a violent felon to legally purchase a deadly 
weapon. Mr. Speaker, this is wrong. 

As many of my colleagues know, I spent 
nearly a dozen years as a criminal trial court 
judge and gang murder prosecutor. Some of 
the most serious crimes I have seen were 
committed by juveniles. We need to ensure 
that our streets are kept safe, and that young 
people learn how serious committing a violent 
crime can be. One of the surest ways to meet 
this goal is by keeping firearms out of the 
hands of serious criminals of any age. 

We must also take steps to ensure that the 
law applies equally to all Americans. The Juvenile 
Justice bill includes a key provision of 
our bill which will apply the same standard to 
juveniles as to adults who have committed serious 
felonies. Crimes that are considered ‘‘serious 
violent felonies’’ and would disqualify an 
adult from legally purchasing a firearm must 
also apply to juveniles. Under current federal 
law, these crimes include: murder, rape, manslaughter, 
robbery, extortion, arson and similar 
severe crimes. 

Mr. Speaker, we need to keep guns out of 
the hands of violent criminals. I am proud that 
my colleague ROD BLAGOJEVICH and I have 
reached across party lines to stand for what is 
right: protecting our nation’s youth. Later this 
week, the Judiciary Committee will mark up 
legislation incorporating our proposals and a 
number of key measures to ensure that the 
same goal is met. We must not cease in our 
efforts to ensure safe, effective schools and 
communities our children deserve nothing 
less. 

f 


MEDICARE MODERNIZATION NO. 8: 
SETTING THE GOAL OF MOVING 
TO A SINGLE, UNITED P.P.S. 
SYSTEM FOR POST–CARE HOSPITAL 
SERVICES 

HON. FORTNEY PETE STARK 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, as part of a series 
of bills to provide for the modernization of 
Medicare, I am today introducing a bill to set 
the goal that by the year 2010 Medicare develop 
and use a single, united prospective 
payment system for post-acute hospital services. 


Currently, payment for post-acute care is a 
Tower of Babel, with different PPS and non-
PPS systems used depending on whether one 
goes to a non-PPS hospital, a skilled nursing 
home, a home health agency, or some other 
form of therapy. The different payment rates 
and systems greatly increase Medicare’s complexity 
and makes the system vulnerable to 
‘gaming’—the placement of a patient where 
the provider will get the most money, not 
where the patient will get the best care. 


E1164 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks June 8, 1999 

The Congressional advisory commission 
MedPAC, and other health experts, have long-
warned that the proliferation of payment systems 
makes it evermore difficult for us to know 
what we are buying and how well patients are 
being treated. 

But moving to a single, unified, and simpler 
system is not easy. In many areas, the data 
or basic research is not available. Therefore, 
my bill sets out a long-term goal for Medicare 
to move in this direction. I hope that HCFA 
can develop these simplifications and cross-
comparisons sooner, but if not, the bill sets a 
‘hammer’ of requiring the provider communities 
and HCFA to come together to achieve 
this goal by the end of the next decade. 

In the long run, this effort should yield savings 
and improve quality measurement. My introduction 
of this bill is a signal that this is the 
direction we should be moving. 

Following are some quotes from the March 
1999 MedPAC report to Congress on why this 
wonky issue is also an important issue: 

To guide the development of consistent 
payment policies across post-acute care settings, 
MedPAC recommends that common 
data elements be collected to help identify 
and quantify the overlap of patients treated 
and services provided. Further, it is important 
to put in place quality monitoring systems 
in each setting to ensure that adequate 
care is provided in the appropriate site. We 
also support research and demonstrations to 
assess the potential of alternative patient 
classification systems for use across settings 
to make payments for like services more 
comparable. . . 

A lack of readily available data on patient 
function and health status limits the ability 
to identify where differences and overlaps in 
patients occur and to compare costs and payments 
across provider types. In particular, 
policymakers are concerned that payment 
policies may furnish incentives for providers 
to place patients in settings for financial, 
rather than for clinical reasons. A core set of 
common data about patients in all post-
acute care settings will improve considerably 
the ability to monitor and make policy 
decisions about post-acute care. 

f 


IN SPECIAL RECOGNITION OF THE 
LATE MAJ. GEN. WALTER A. 
CHURCHILL (RET.), U.S. MARINE 
CORPS, FOR HIS DEDICATED 
SERVICE TO THE UNITED 
STATES OF AMERICA 

HON. PAUL E. GILLMOR 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. GILLMOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise to pay 
special tribute to a truly outstanding individual 
from the state of Ohio, the late Major General 
Walter A. Churchill (ret.), United States Marine 
Corps. On Monday, June 7, 1999, a special 
celebration will take place in Toledo, Ohio to 
honor the outstanding life and military career 
of General Churchill. 

Mr. Speaker, Walter Augustus Churchill, Sr. 
was born on November 12, 1903. At the age 
of 19, he enlisted in the United States Marine 
Corps and began a distinguished military career 
culminating with the rank of Major General 
in 1962. General Churchill retired from the 
United States Marine Corps on December 1, 
1963, after a remarkable 41 years and 8 days 
of service to his country. 

During his career in the Marine Corps, General 
Churchill served the United States proudly 
around the world at Guantanamo Bay, Iceland, 
Guam, Guadalcanal, and other areas of the 
Pacific theater in World War II. While serving 
in World War II, General Churchill was awarded 
the Bronze Star Medal with Combat ‘‘V’’ for 
Valor and a Gold Star as Commander of the 
Fifth Field Service Command, Fleet Marine 
Force, Pacific. 

After his military career, General Churchill 
was instrumental in forming the United States 
Marines Youth Foundation, whose goal is to 
keep children free from the dangers of drugs 
and substance abuse. General Churchill was 
also the Chairman of the Board and CEO of 
Churchill Supermarkets, Inc., the family business 
of five supermarkets. His tireless dedication 
and innovation helped propel General 
Churchill’s standing in the business community. 


Always the community activist, General 
Churchill was a member of the Toledo City 
Council and was Chairman of the Toledo Republican 
Executive and Central Committees. 
He was a member of the Toledo Rotary Club, 
National Association of Grocers, Ohio Automobile 
Association, and many more. Among 
others, General Churchill was recognized as 
‘‘Marine of the Year,’’ ‘‘Grocer of the Year,’’ 
and, in 1992, he received the President’s Distinguished 
Service Award. 

Mr. Speaker, I would urge my colleagues to 
stand and join me in paying tribute to the late 
Major General Walter A. Churchill. For his unwavering 
service above and beyond the call of 
duty, we owe him our most gracious thanks. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO DAVID AND ELAINE 
GILL 

HON. BRAD SHERMAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay tribute to Elaine and David Gill for their almost 
fifty years of leadership and devotion to 
the Brandeis-Bardin Institute and the Los Angeles 
Jewish community. 

Since they first attended the Brandeis Collegiate 
Institute in the 1950s, Elaine and David 
have forged a warm, longstanding relationship 
with the Brandeis-Bardin Institute as a whole. 
Both of them have served on the Board and 
David is a member of the Executive Committee. 
Elaine has served as chair of the 
Alonim Committee, the Women of Brandeis-
Bardin, and as co-chair of the Brandeis-Bardin 
Associates. The Gills have recognized the important 
role that BBI plays in enhancing the 
spiritual life of Jews of all ages and levels of 
observance, and they have committed their 
time and energy to ensuring the Institute’s 
continued success and development. 

The Gills’ relationship with the Brandeis-
Bardin Institute exists on the personal level as 
well. All four of their sons have attended 
Camp Alonim, the youth resident summer 
camp held on the grounds of the Institute. Between 
1971 and 1994, at least one of their 
sons was involved with the camp either as a 
camper or a staff member. In fact, both of the 
couple’s married sons met their wives at 
Alonim. A third generation of Gills, grandsons 
Jasper, Jonah, and Micah, are all future campers. 


In addition to all their efforts on behalf of 
Brandeis-Bardin, Elaine and David have found 
time to volunteer with several other Jewish organizations, 
showing that their dedication to 
the local Jewish community extends far beyond 
the tree-lined gates of the institute. 

At Valley Beth Shalom, one of the largest 
Conservative synagogues in the San Fernando 
Valley, the Gills have both been active 
members. They have served as pararabbinic 
counselors and they have been instrumental in 
developing the synagogue’s havurah program, 
which brings together families with similar interests 
for social and religious fellowship. 
David has been chairman of the Board and 
has led two building fund campaigns. Elaine is 
currently Religious Vice President. 

The Gills have also devoted an extraordinary 
amount of time to the Los Angeles Jewish 
Federation which offers a wide range of 
activities and services to individuals throughout 
Los Angeles. Together, David and Elaine 
have led several missions to Israel and they 
have each chaired committees too numerous 
to mention. 

Mr. Speaker, distinguished colleagues, 
please join me in honoring Elaine and David 
Gill’s outstanding work with the Brandeis-
Bardin Institute and the Los Angeles Jewish 
community. They are the true embodiment of 
the concept that ‘‘all Israel are responsible for 
one another.’’ 

f 


MILITARY HOME OF RECORD ACT 
OF 1999; LEGISLATION TO CLARIFY 
THE ‘‘HOME OF RECORD’’ 
FOR MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR 
THE PURPOSE OF THE 2000 CENSUS. 


HON. PAUL RYAN 

OF WISCONSIN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. RYAN of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I am 
here today to introduce legislation that I feel is 
essential to achieving an accurate count in 
Census 2000. 

Military personnel are a unique group because 
they often pay taxes and vote in a state 
in which they are stationed; therefore, it is difficult 
to clearly define their actual residence. 
Most would not be residing in the place they 
have been stationed were it not for their military 
service. Many have family in another 
state. 

My bill will provide clarity by ensuring that 
military personnel are allocated to their ‘‘Home 
of Record.’’ This will ensure that federal funding 
and redistricting are based on an accurate 
count of the population. 

Currently, the Census Bureau plans to use 
‘‘Home of Record’’ data for counting military 
personnel who are stationed overseas in Census 
2000. This bill requires the Census Bureau 
to work in partnership with the Department 
of Defense to count military personnel 
who have been stationed in the United States 
as well. 

This bill is not a radical shift in policy for the 
Census. In the 1990 Census as well as in the 
1970 Census the Department of Commerce 
utilized ‘‘home of record’’ data. In 1992, the 
Supreme Court stated that the Secretary of 
the Department of Commerce was acting within 
the law when he used ‘‘home of record’’ 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1165 

data from the personnel files to count military district. Sadly, as students and parents in La have grown up to be doctors, lawyers and 
personnel in the 1990 Census. Crescenta, CA, would agree, it also marks the other professionals who have served the 
I am not seeking to uproot years of tradition end of her distinguished career in education. country which welcomed their ancestors with 
here today; I am merely fighting to ensure that To honor this service to our youth and to our open arms. 

the Census is done in a fair and equitable 
manner, accounting for all U.S. citizens in their 
proper home. These men and women have 
claimed a state to be their ‘‘home’’-why 
shouldn’t we honor that claim. There are many 
states that, merely based on location, have 
been chosen to house military personnel. 
Counting military personnel as residents of 
these states when they are voting and paying 
taxes elsewhere simply does not make sense. 

I urge all my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring 
this legislation. 

f 


IN HONOR OF THE LATE DR. 
THEODORE MILLER 

HON. SCOTT McINNIS 

OF COLORADO 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. McINNIS. Mr. Speaker, it is with great 
sadness that I wish to take this moment to 
recognize the remarkable life and significant 
achievements of one of Pueblo, Colorado’s 
treasured pediatric physicians. Tragically, Dr. 
Theodore Miller died after a long battle with 
prostate cancer. While his family and friends 
remember the truly exceptional life of Dr. 
Theodore, I, too, would like to pay tribute to 
this remarkable man. 

As a pediatrician in Pueblo, Colorado, for 
forty years, Dr. Miller’s bedside manner was 
the best around. According to former patients 
and colleagues, Dr. Miller was the kind of man 
who took time for the children to get them directly 
involved with their diagnosis and recovery. 
Dr. Miller’s love for his work was evident 
through his dedication to his partner, and his 
patients. 

Dr. Theodore Miller served in the medical 
corps in World War II, and moved to Pueblo 
Colorado soon after. He graduated from 
Northwestern Medical School in 1945 and 
started his partnership in 1951. After forty 
years of serving the community of Pueblo, Dr. 
Miller retired in 1991. He was a member of the 
American Academy of Pediatrics, and the Colorado 
State Medical Society Dr. Miller also 
served on the American Board of Pediatrics, 
and was once president of the Pueblo County 
Medical Society. 

Although his professional accomplishments 
will long be remembered and admired, most 
who knew him well remember Dr. Miller, 
above all else, as a friend. it is clear that the 
multitude of those who have come to know 
him, mourn his absence. However, Mr. Speaker, 
I am confident that, in spite of this profound 
loss, the family and friends of Dr. Theodore 
Miller can take solace in the knowledge 
that each is a better person for having known 
him. 

f 


HONORING THE SERVICE OF RUTH 
SQUIRES 

HON. JAMES E. ROGAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. ROGAN. Mr. Speaker, this year marks 
the 36th year of service for a teacher in my 

Nation, I ask my colleagues here today to join 
me in saluting Ruth Squires. 

Ruth’s career in teaching would carry her 
from coast to coast. She began her career in 
New York State, earning a degree at the State 
University Teachers’ College In Cortlind. Eventually 
finding her way to California, Ruth joined 
the faculty at Rosemont Middle School in La 
Crescenta in 1963. She immediately became 
actively involved in both community and 
school events. She is best known for her leadership 
in the school’s production on the United 
States Constitution. This community event is 
Ruth’s trademark, bring to life the two-hundred 
year old document that is the foundation of 
our government. 

In her 36 years at Rosemont, Ruth has 
taught history, social science and economics, 
and served as a mentor for her peers. Currently, 
she is the chair of the history and social 
science department. And her leadership has 
not gone unnoticed. In 1988, she was awarded 
the prestigious Masonic Award, and in 
1993, received the John Del Monte Award for 
her service to campus and community. Ruth is 
also recognized by ‘‘Who’s Who, American 
University and Colleges Edition.’’ 

Mr. Speaker, too often, the service of those 
who mean the most goes unnoticed. Although 
another school year has come to an end, we 
must not let it pass without recognizing the 
service of the men and women in education 
who have unconditionally served our youth. 
Ruth Squires is one of these patriots. 

For her three decades of service to the families 
of California’s 27th Congressional District, 
and for her distinguished work in the La 
Crescenta community, I ask my colleagues to 
join me in honoring the service of Ruth 
Squires. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO THE REPUBLIC OF 
CROATIA FOR CELEBRATING THE 
NINTH ANNIVERSARY OF ITS 
INDEPENDENCE ON MAY 30, 1999, 
AND FOR OPENING A NEW CONSULATE 
GENERAL IN CHICAGO 
ON APRIL 8, 1999 

HON. GEORGE RADANOVICH 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. RADANOVICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to pay tribute to the Republic of Croatia 
for celebrating the 9th anniversary of its independence 
on May 30, 1999, and for opening 
a new Consulate General in Chicago on April 
8, 1999. 

I am proud, and especially proud today, to 
be one of the more than 2 million people of 
Croatian descent living in the United States 
who have maintained their links with Croatia. 
Croatian Americans arrived in the United 
States with little except for the belief in the 
‘‘American Dream’’ and a perseverance to 
succeed and watch their children excel. Since 
they first arrived in large numbers in the 
United States more than one hundred years 
ago, Croatian Americans have done well in all 
aspects of American historical, socio-cultural 
and political life. Their sons and daughters 

Croatia is a country rich in history, culture 
and beauty. Its people have a special appreciation 
for the United States and Americans. A 
Croatian poet, Antun Gustav Matos, wrote in 
1906 that ‘‘America is presently the most important 
factor in the creation of Croatian democracy, 
the best school of Croatian vitality.’’ 
Today these words are even more meaningful 
than they were in 1906. 

We all remember Croatia’s lengthy war for 
independence that made headlines worldwide 
in the early part of this decade. We celebrated 
when Croatia finally broke from the Serbian-
dominated Yugoslavia in 1991, after such 
great loss of human life, to become its own 
independent country. Today, we stand with the 
Croatians to pay tribute to their courage and 
perseverance. We pay tribute to Croatia’s fully 
functioning, democratic political structure, and 
its commitment to further economic development. 


I also want to pay tribute to the Republic of 
Croatia’s opening of a new Consulate General 
in Chicago on April 8, 1999. The three-day series 
of events entitled Croatia in Chicago was 
the largest gathering ever of the Croatian 
community in the U.S. and it demonstrated 
that the partnership between Croatia and the 

U.S. is constantly being strengthened. One 
particularly special event was a Gala Dinner 
organized by the Croatian community in Chicago. 
There were 1,400 guests in attendance 
and the revenues of the dinner went to benefit 
the children’s hospitals in Croatia. 
Lastly, Mr. Speaker, I want to associate myself 
with the remarks of Ambassador Robert 
Gelbard at the Groatia in Chicago event. Mr. 
Gelbard said ‘‘As our trade and business ties 
grow so must Groatia’s integration into the full 
range of Western and Euro-Altantic institutions.’’ 
I believe we must do all we can to help 
Croatia achieve these goals, and we must 
continue to reinforce to the Croatian people 
that our goal is a full partnership with Croatia. 
Finally, I ask my colleagues to join me in paying 
tribute to th Republic of Croatia for celebrating 
the ninth anniversary of its independence 
and for opening a new Consulate General 
in Chicago. 

f 


THE POTOMAC—AN ENDANGERED 
RIVER 

HON. RANDY ‘‘DUKE’’ CUNNINGHAM 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Speaker, as a 
member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s 
Caucus and District of Columbia Appropriations 
Subcommittee, I am deeply concerned 
about the environment in and around our nation’s 
capital. 

Two years ago the Congressional Sportsmen’s 
Caucus held a monthly informational 
briefing on fishing in the Washington, D.C. 
area. Following that briefing I submitted for the 
record an article written by Charles Verharen, 
a Professor at Howard University and avid 
local fisherman, that highlighted threats to the 
Potomac River fishery. 

At the request of local fishermen, a study on 
the impact of sediment discharge on anadromous 
fish was initiated by the U.S. Fish and 


E1166 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks June 8, 1999 

Wildlife Service (FWS), with the Maryland Department 
of Natural Resources, the Interstate 
Commission for the Potomac River Basin, the 
District of Columbia Fish and Wildlife, and the 
National Marine Fisheries Service. The report 
concludes that this sediment discharge is 
causing a significant adverse impact to anadromous 
fish during the spawning season. 

I have attached another article by Charles 
Verharen that describes the impact of this environmental 
problem. In addition, I have enclosed 
the summary of recommendations from 
the Fish and Wildlife Service report to update 
my colleagues on the problems facing the Potomac 
River environment.***HD***JOE 
FLETCHER’S FISH STORY 

(By Charles Verharen) 
Joe Fletcher is tempted to cry over his beloved 
river. And a recent U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service report claims he has good reason. 
Joe and his family have rented fishing 
boats on the Potomac at Fletcher’s Boat 
House for three generations. One of Joe’s favorite 
stories—not about a fisherman but a 
ferry passenger—shows why he’s sad. 
Joe’s story starts in colonial times when 
the Potomac was one of the greatest fisheries 
in the world. George Washington owned 
highly profitable commercial fishing rights 
on the Potomac near Mount Vernon. The 
king of all fish in the Potomac was the sturgeon, 
ranging up to ten feet in length and 
weighing over four hundred pounds. Potomac 
caviar was a delicacy prized around the 
world. 
In colonial Washington, the only way 
across the Potomac was by ferry. One time a 
sturgeon leaped out of the water and landed 
on a Georgetown passenger sitting in a small 
ferry’s stern. The fish was so huge that it 
crushed the man’s hip and he died from the 
injury several weeks later. 
Joe’s doubly sad when he tells this story— 
sad about the passenger and sad that sturgeon 
leap out of the Potomac no more. But 
now Joe’s got something else to be sad 
about. He fears that the sturgeon’s fate 
threatens rockfish (striped bass) and shad, 
abundant at Fletcher’s Cove even in times 
when the Potomac was one of the most polluted 
rivers in America. 
Ironically, Joe blames this new threat of 
extinction on pure water. The Washington 
Aqueduct drinking water treatment plant 
discharges the equivalent of up to twenty 
five dump-truck loads of aluminum and copper 
sulfates and other waste material into 
the Potomac above Chain Bridge every day 
as a by-product of its water purifying process. 
Joe fears the chemicals are damaging the 
spawn and fry—as well as fishing. ‘‘Every 
time the water treatment plant dumps a big 
load into the river,’’ Joe claims, ‘‘the fish 
just stop biting.’’ 
Joe can’t imagine Washingtonians would 
sit still if they saw twenty five trucks 
parked on Key Bridge dumping waste into 
the Potomac. And twenty five trucks a day 
adds up to over nine thousand trucks a year. 
‘‘How many times would nine thousand 
trucks go around the Beltway?’’, Joe wonders. 
A recent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service report 
on the Washington Aqueduct confirms 
Joe’s fears. Prepared by Fish and Wildlife’s 
Chesapeake Bay field office and a panel of 
area-wide fisheries biologists, the report advocates 
eliminating all Washington Aqueduct 
waste discharges into the Potomac, one 
of fourteen American Heritage Rivers targeted 
for ‘‘environmental, economic, and social 
restoration projects.’’ 
Surprisingly, the panel claims shortnose 
sturgeon have been found in the lower and 

middle Potomac, and Aqueduct waste discharge 
points are potential spawning habitats 
for sturgeon. The panel’s report asks the 
Environmental Protection Agency to investigate 
the Aqueduct’s potential threat to a 
sturgeon comeback. 

The EPA gives the Washington Aqueduct a 
permit to discharge its waste. Long past its 
expiration date, the permit has been ‘‘administratively 
extended.’’ The EPA won’t renew 
the permit in its present form because the 
Army Corps of Engineers which operates the 
Washington Aqueduct isn’t doing everything 
it can to clean up its waste. 

The Corps could truck the waste to disposal 
sites but a citizens group that calls 
itself ‘‘CRUDD’’ (Committee for Responsible 
Urban Disposal at Dalecarlia, the old name 
for the Aqueduct) doesn’t want the trucks 
threatening their children’s safety and their 
Palisade neighborhood’s clean air. 

The waste could be pumped to Washington’s 
Blue Plains waste water treatment 
plant through existing sewer lines, but the 
Washington Aqueduct would have to pay for 
using the lines and enlarging Blue Plains 
treatment capacity. The local governments 
that buy clean water from the Aqueduct 
don’t feel that Washington area residents 
want to pay extra taxes to stop the Potomac 
pollution. 

Those same customers want to save money 
by paying chicken farmers and other polluters 
upstream to stop their discharge. The 
EPA allows polluters to buy and sell pollution 
rights from one another. But that kind 
of exchange wouldn’t save the fish. 

Joe Fletcher thinks that if Washingtonians 
knew how dirty their clean drinking water 
makes the Potomac, they might want to pay 
a little extra so the shad and the rockfish 
have a chance to make a comeback. Joe even 
dreams about the day he might see a sturgeon 
breaking the water close to his boat— 
but not too close! 

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, 
FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE 

Annapolis, MD, March 2, 1999. 

Re: Washington Aqueduct Report. 
MS. PATRICIA GLEASON, 

U.S. EPA, Region III, 
Water Protection Division, 
Philadelphia, PA. 
MS. GLEASON: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service with Maryland Department of Natural 
Resources, Interstate Commission for 
the Potomac River Basin, District of Columbia 
Fish and Wildlife, and National Marine 
Fisheries Service have completed a report on 
the sediment discharges from the Washington 
Aqueduct, Washington, D.C. The enclosed 
report concludes that significant adverse 
impacts to anadromous fish during the 
spawning season could occur from the sediment 
discharges. The report entitled, ‘‘Washington 
Aqueduct Sediment Discharges Report 
of Panel Recommendations’’ includes 
recommendations to the Aqueduct Administrators 
on how to minimize the impacts during 
the spawning season. 

We appreciate the opportunity to provide 
information relevant to fish and wildlife resources. 
If you have any questions on this report, 
please contact David W. Sutherland at 

(410) 573–4535 or DavidXSutherland@fws.gov. 
Sincerely, 
ROBERT J. PENNINGTON, 
ACTING SUPERVISOR, 

Chesapeake Bay Field Office. 

Enclosure. 

WASHINGTON AQUEDUCT SEDIMENT 
DISCHARGES 

REPORT OF PANEL RECOMMENDATIONS 

Fisheries Panel Summary of 
Recommendations, March 1999 

A panel of fisheries biologists from the District 
of Columbia, State of Maryland, Interstate 
Commission on the Potomac River 
Basin, National Marine Fisheries Service, 
and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service was convened 
to provide recommendations on minimizing 
impacts to migratory fish from sediment 
discharges at the Washington Aqueduct. 
The fisheries panel provides these recommendations 
to the administrators at the 
Washington Aqueduct in an effort to advance 
the anadromous (and resident) fish restoration 
efforts in the Potomac River. By minimizing 
the adverse effects to water quality 
from sediment discharges at the Dalecarlia 
and Georgetown settling basins, fisheries resource 
managers have a better chance at 
achieving fish and habitat restoration goals 
for the Potomac River. 

1. The goal is to eliminate sediment discharges 
to the Potomac River. If sediment 
discharges are absolutely necessary, the 
panel recommends eliminating the flocculent/
sediment discharges from February 15 
to June 15, to avoid the early and late spawning 
activities of migratory fish. 
2. Mix the flocculent/sediments with raw 
river water in the settling basins to produce 
an effluent, that when discharged to the 
river, reduces the adverse impacts of concentrated 
sediments on migratory fish. 
3. Slow the rate of flocculent/sediment discharge 
to the river to a minimum of 72 hours 
per basin. We recommend that the ratio of 
discharge to river flow be less that 0.1%. 
This will also reduce the adverse impacts to 
migratory fish from concentrated sediments 
entering the river. 
4. Monitor water quality daily at the discharge 
sites to identify a time when water 
quality conditions are least sensitive to sediment 
discharges in the river. The water quality 
monitoring parameters include: pH, temperature, 
alkalinity, and conductivity. 
5. Remove rocks from the Dalecarlia outfall 
to ensure controlled and measurable 
sediment discharge rates, and establish outfall 
maintenance and discharge monitoring 
plans to promote safe operation and predictable 
discharge rates. 
6. Create a panel of stakeholders to assist 
the Washington Aqueduct with issues relating 
to the Potomac River ecosystem. These 
entities could include citizen coalition, 
local, state, interstate, and federal representatives. 
f 


INTRODUCTION OF MEDICARE 
MODERNIZATION NO. 7: ‘‘MEDICARE 
CLINICAL PRACTICE PATTERNS 
ACT OF 1999’’ 

HON. FORTNEY PETE STARK 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. STARK. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to introduce 
the seventh bill in my Medicare modernization 
series: the ‘‘Medicare Clinical Practice 
Patterns Act of 1999.’’ This bill would give 
the Secretary the authority to document patterns 
of clinical practice in the Medicare program, 
determine the effectiveness of treatment, 
and bring medicare policy in line with 
that of the private sector. If implemented, the 
‘‘Clinical Practice Patterns Act’’ would help to 
standardize the delivery of health services 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1167 

within Medicare, thereby improving the quality 
of care provided to Medicare beneficiaries and 
achieving savings for the program overall. 

Earlier this year, I introduced H.R. 1544, the 
‘‘Patient Empowerment Act of 1999.’’ The ‘‘Patient 
Empowerment Act’’ was the first step toward 
eliminating the wide variation in treatment 
patterns across the U.S., as identified by 
Dr. John Wennberg in the Dartmouth Atlas. 
The ‘‘Clinical Practice Patterns Act’’ builds on 
this theme by developing evidence-based clinical 
guidelines to assist providers in treating 
various illness. 

Mr. Speaker, there are literally millions of 
doctors, nurses, and health administrators 
working in thousands of different hospitals, all 
trained at different schools in different communities, 
who provide care to the 39 million elderly, 
disabled, and ESRD patients covered by 
Medicare. With all of these elements interacting 
together, it’s no wonder that we have 
such wide variation in treatment patterns 
across the United States. 

Medicare is a combination of both art and 
science. For most treatments, there are no 
empirical data on clinical effectiveness that 
suggest one method is better than another. In 
these cases, providers use their ‘‘best guess’’ 
to make treatment decisions—relying on their 
individual knowledge, preferences, and the resources 
available to them. This ‘‘art’’ of medicine 
exacerbates the variation in treatment 
patterns, and Medicare expenditures, across 
the U.S. 

Yet, as Wennberg notes, there is virtually no 
difference in health outcomes between low 
and high spending areas. If less expensive 
treatments are available, why aren’t we prescribing 
them more readily? By collecting and 
distributing data on clinical effectiveness, and 
encouraging providers to use treatment guidelines, 
we may be able to minimize practice 
variation. We simultaneously may be able to 
achieve substantial savings for Medicare. 

Following is a portion of an interview from 
the May/June 1999 issue of Health Affairs by 
Princeton professor Uwe Reinhardt with HHS 
Secretary Donna Shalala discussing how 
Medicare’s financial problems would be greatly 
reduced if the variation in clinical practices 
were minimized: 

REINHARDT. ‘‘Count on me to be a real 
thorn in the side of the status quo, then, because 
I believe that if everyone in America 
could consume medical care while spending 
at rates similar to those of Minnesota, Oregon, 
and Wisconsin, providing health care 
to the aging baby-boom generation would be 
a piece of cake, wouldn’t it?’’ 

SHALALA. ‘‘Absolutely, and the doctors 
would feel as though the system were fairer. 
But once the infrastructure is built and physicians 
get comfortable with consuming a 
certain level of resources, it’s very difficult 
to work your way out unless you buy yourself 
out, as we have attempted to do with the 
downsizing of medical residency positions 
through HCFA’s New York demonstration.’’ 

Clinical practice guidelines are being used 
more and more throughout the private sector 
to improve the quality of health care as well as 
to increase the efficiency of the health industry. 
This practice does not in any way diminish 
the art of medicine, it only improves the 
science behind treatment decisions. 

Medicare is a natural candidate for clinical 
practice guidelines. With an outstanding database 
of information on beneficiaries across the 
country, and the resources of the NIH and 

AHCPR at hand, Medicare could effectively 
implement a program to improve clinical effectiveness 
and achieve savings through efficiency. 


f 


IN SPECIAL RECOGNITION OF WILLIAM 
S. HEFRON ON HIS APPOINTMENT 
TO ATTEND THE 
UNITED STATES MILITARY 
ACADEMY 

HON. PAUL E. GILLMOR 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. GILLMOR: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
pay special tribute to an outstanding young 
man from Ohio’s Fifth Congressional District. I 
am happy to announce that William S. Hefron, 
of Amherst, Ohio, has been offered an appointment 
to attend the United States Military 
Academy at West Point, New York. 

Mr. Speaker, Bill as accepted his offer of 
appointment and will be attending West Point 
this fall with the incoming cadet class of 2003. 
Attending one of our nation’s military academies 
is an invaluable experience that offers 
a world-class education and demands the very 
best that these young men and women have 
to offer. Truly, it is one of the most challenging 
and rewarding undertakings of their lives. 

While attending Lorain Catholic High 
School, Bill has attained a grade point average 
of 4.062 on a 4.3 scale, which places him 
third in his class of sixty-six students. Bill’s 
scholastic honors include the Lorain Catholic 
Honor Roll and National Honor Society. Bill is 
also taking several AP classes to further his 
outstanding academic achievements. 

Outside of the classroom, Bill has distinguished 
himself as an outstanding student-athlete. 
On the fields of competition, Bill is a Varsity 
letter winner in cross country, track, football, 
and basketball. During his Junior season, 
Bill was captain of the cross country team, 
Most Valuable Runner, and a school record 
holder. In track, Bill won the 800 meters at the 
District Track & Field Meet, and placed fifth in 
Regional competition. And currently, Bill is the 
Secretary of the Senior Class. 

Mr. Speaker, at this point, I would ask my 
colleagues to stand and join me in paying special 
tribute to William S. Hefron. Our service 
academies offer the finest education and military 
training available anywhere in the world. 
I am sure that Bill will do very well during his 
career at West Point, and I wish him the very 
best in all of his future endeavors. 

f 


IN HONOR OF THE LATE KEITH 
CLARK 

HON. SCOTT McINNIS 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. MCINNIS. Mr. Speaker, it is with a 
heavy heart that I would like to take this moment 
to honor the remarkable life and exceptional 
achievements of a great Coloradan and 
American, Keith Clark. In doing so, I wish to 
pay tribute to Keith for all of his many years 
of service and sacrifice on behalf of this nation. 
At the same time, I would also like to 

offer my deepest sympathies to the family and 
friends of Keith as they grieve at his passing. 
Like those who knew him well, the entire 
Grand Junction community will miss both Keith 
and his tireless service on their behalf. 

For 29 years in Grand Junction, Colorado’s 
School District 51, Keith was a pillar of education 
who served with great distinction, both 
as a teacher and as an advocate for improving 
our schools. Keith was, for nearly three decades, 
a powerful voice of leadership and vision 
for education in the Grand Valley. It is 
clear, Mr. Speaker, that his leadership in education 
will continue to benefit students in our 
school system for many years to come. I know 
that this is a legacy that Mr. Clark would take 
great pride in. 

In addition to his service as an educator, 
Keith also served his country with great valor 
as a B–52 pilot during World War II. Mr. Clark 
flew and fought bravely over the skies of North 
Africa and Italy in defense of the nation he 
loved deeply. 

At one might surmise from his sustained 
service and selfless sacrifice, Keith was also a 
fierce patriot and proud American. He believed 
deeply in our constitutional form of government 
and in the bedrock principles—like freedom, 
liberty, and individual self-determination—
upon which this great republic stands. 

It is with this, Mr. Speaker, that I say thank 
you to Mr. Keith Clark for his decades of service, 
both in defense of our country as an airman 
and in defense of our future as an educator. 
He was truly a great American. 

At the same time, I would also like to offer 
my heart-felt condolences to Keith’s family: his 
wife of 52 years Anita, his children Katie and 
Cal, and his three granddaughters Amber, Lily 
and Hillary. I hope that these family members, 
like everyone who has had the good-fortune of 
knowing Keith, will take solace in the 
undisputable fact that they are a better person 
for having known him. 

f 


SALUTING THE SERVICE OF JOAN 
KELLY 

HON. JAMES E. ROGAN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. ROGAN. Mr. Speaker, none of us here 
today would have found success without the 
help and guidance of a teacher. As students, 
we were all influenced by those who commit 
their lives to the service of others. Too often, 
this service goes unnoticed. Today, I would 
like to salute the service of a teacher who has 
dedicated over a decade of her career to the 
students in my district. 

Joan Kelly has taught in La Crescenta, California 
for 11 years. However, her work as a 
teacher began long before her move to my 
district. Throughout her life, Joan has committed 
herself to serving the needs of students 
and the needs of the community. 

Joan is a native of Brooklyn, New York. A 
graduate of Fordham University, she taught elementary 
school and worked extensively in 
the New York area. Her work with students 
and parents led her to develop a counseling 
program in Yonkers, New York. This program 
is a shining example of her relentless pursuit 
of innovative and creative ways to reach students. 



E1168 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks June 8, 1999 

Joan joined the faculty at Rosemont Middle 
School in the Spring of 1987. Her efforts as a 
math, history, and English teacher and school 
administrator contributed to Rosemont being 
recognized as a U.S. Department of Education 
Blue Ribbon School of Excellence and a California 
Distinguished School. 

In her years of service at Rosemont Middle 
School, Joan has proven herself to be a leader. 
She is often called on by colleagues to direct 
teacher in-service programs, passing on 
to her peers a lifetime of knowledge about 
education. Further, she has instilled in teachers 
the skills to help students be the best they 
can be. In 1993, she was awarded the prestigious 
Masonic Award for her service. 

Mr. Speaker, the strength of our nation tomorrow 
depends on the quality of the education 
our youth receive today. And one need 
look no further than the roster of Joan’s former 
students to see the leaders of tomorrow. For 
her service to our nation, and for her commitment 
to public education, I ask my colleagues 
here today to join me in recognizing Joan 
Kelly. 

f 


PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. KENNY C. HULSHOF 

OF MISSOURI 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. HULSHOF. Mr. Speaker, I missed three 
votes last night, rollcall Numbers 167, 168 and 

169. These votes were missed due to a canceled 
airline flight. On these votes, I would 
have voted ‘‘aye’’. 
f 


TRIBUTE TO DR. AUGUSTO ORTIZ 
AND MARTHA ORTIZ 

´ 

HON. CARLOS A. ROMERO-BARCELO 

OF PUERTO RICO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

´ 
pleased to rise today to pay tribute to Dr. 
Augusto Ortiz and his wife Martha, who have 
for half a century provided medical and clinical 
services to the Spanish-speaking population of 
Arizona. I wish to recognize their selflessness 
and commitment to the health and welfare of 
their fellow Americans. 
During the past year in particular, we have 
witnessed many discussions about the role 
that Puerto Rican-Americans play in the mainstream 
United States. Some have questioned 
our right to equality as Americans because of 
our language and our culture, but I want to assure 
you that the patriotic and law abiding citizens 
of Puerto Rico have distinguished themselves 
in all facets of life in the United States, 
be it in defense of our nation, as community 
leaders, as athletes, professionals, scientists 
or as performing artists, making numerous 
contributions to our great nation. Our language 
and culture have enhanced and enriched our 
national culture, contributing to the service and 
understanding of our fellow citizens throughout 
the United States. 
The merging of our cultures is especially 
evident in the life of Dr. and Mrs. Ortiz. Their 
lifelong commitment to Arizona is enhanced by 
the fact that Dr. Ortiz is a Puerto Rican-Amer-

Mr. ROMERO-BARCELO Mr. Speaker, I am 

ican who together with his wife have dedicated 
their lives to the service of their fellow human 
beings. Thousands of Arizonans feel deep 
gratitude for Ortiz’ commitment to their health 
and lives. 

How is it that this ‘‘Jibaro Puertorriquen˜o’’ 
came to lead his life in the desert? While a 
boy in Puerto Rico, Dr. Ortiz dreamt of helping 
others. His parents encouraged his love of 
learning and dedication to the public service. 
After graduating from medical school at the 
University of Illinois in 1945, he joined the military 
and served as a physician at several 
posts throughout the country. In the early 
1950’s, while stationed at Luke Air Force Base 
in Phoenix, Arizona, Dr. Ortiz volunteered to 
assist Dr. Carlos Graeth to provide medical 
services to the 80,000 Hispanics in Maricopa 
County. They were the only two Spanish 
speaking doctors in the County. 

Dr. Ortiz became a champion for the rights 
of those he served. His involvement in improving 
human needs and access to medical care, 
better education, housing and jobs led him to 
become politically active and an ally for people 
who lacked a voice, particularly farm workers. 
He worked to improve field sanitation conditions 
and was instrumental in enacting state 
laws to regulate the use of pesticides. 

Martha Ortiz was the organizational brains 
of this effort. She served as the full time administrator, 
personnel director and business 
manager of the office mostly as a volunteer, 
because she refused to accept payment for 
her services. She ably handled the many ‘‘pay 
what you can’’ patient alternatives that enabled 
the medical practice to continue to make 
health services available and affordable to low 
income and indigent residents of Arizona. 

Since 1972, Dr. Ortiz has headed the University 
of Arizona Rural Health Office and has 
successfully directed more efficient health 
services including prevention-focused health 
campaigns, mobile clinics and community 
health boards. He is a living model to aspiring 
doctors and others in the health professions. 

During their 50 year commitment to their fellow 
man and woman, Dr. and Mrs. Ortiz have 
been awarded many rightfully deserved honors 
and recognitions at the community, state 
and national levels. 

As a fellow Puerto Rican-American, as a fellow 
Hispanic and as a fellow American, I am 
pleased and proud to recognize the achievements 
of this couple who have made a difference 
in the lives of thousands. Dr. Ortiz deserves 
our deepest gratitude and the nation’s 
recognition. I ask my colleagues in Congress 
to join with me in saluting and honoring, Dr. 
Augusto Ortiz and his wife Martha Ortiz. 

f 


CONGRATULATIONS TO ROBERT M. 
‘‘BOB’’ ROSE 

HON. IKE SKELTON 

OF MISSOURI 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, it has come to 
my attention that Robert M. ‘‘Bob’’ Rose was 
honored with the honorary degree of Doctor of 
Humanities during the 1999 academic convocation 
at Missouri Valley College on Sunday, 
May 16, 1999. 

Mr. Rose is a graduate of Marshall High 
School in Marshall, Missouri. He also earned 

a degree from the U.S. Military Academy in 
West Point, N.Y., a Master of Arts degree in 
English Literature from the University of Pennsylvania, 
a Master of Arts degree in International 
Affairs from The George Washington 
University and is a graduate of both the U.S. 
Army Command and General Staff College at 
Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and the U.S. Army 
War College at Carlisle Barracks, Pa. 

In 1949, Mr. Rose was commissioned as a 
Second Lieutenant and he remained a commissioned 
officer in the U.S. Army until 1971. 
His overseas service included Germany from 
1950 to 1953, Korea from 1960 to 1961, another 
tour in Germany from 1965 to 1967 and 
Vietnam from 1967 to 1968. His service time 
in the United States was divided among Fort 
Knox, Ky., Fort Meade, Md., Washington, 
D.C., and various service schools. 

Key positions held by Rose while in the U.S. 
Army included instructor and assistant professor 
of English at the U.S. Military Academy 
in West Point from 1956 to 1959, commander 
of combat units from platoon to division support 
command in Vietnam and staff officer 
from battalion to Department of Army headquarters 
(Pentagon). Rose was promoted to 
colonel in 1968 and he retired from military 
service on February 1, 1971. 

As a civilian, Rose was the managing partner 
of Rose and Buckner Store on the east 
side of the Marshall square. Bob was the third 
generation of the Rose family in this position. 
The store closed upon his retirement. Other 
local business and civic offices held by Rose 
include being past president and board member 
of the Marshall Rotary Club, serving on 
the board of directors of Wood and Huston 
Bank in Marshall, serving on the board of directors 
of Wood and Huston Bancorporation 
Inc. in Marshall and acting as past chairman 
of the board for Corwin Corporation in Kansas 
City. 

Rose was also a board trustee of Ridge 
Park Cemetery Association in Marshall, a 
board member of the Missouri River Chapter 
of the American Red Cross, executive board 
member of the Great Rivers Council of Boy 
Scouts of America, past chairman of the Missouri 
Valley College Board of Trustees and a 
member of various military, veteran and civic 
organizations. 

Rose in an active member of First United 
Methodist Church in Marshall. He and his wife 
Betty are the parents of one son. 

Mr. Speaker, I know the Members of the 
House will join me in congratulating Robert M. 
‘‘Bob’’ Rose for his honorary degree of Doctor 
of Humanities, and for his lifelong service to 
his community and to his country. 

f 


PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. WILLIAM M. THOMAS 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. THOMAS. Mr. Speaker, I was not 
present for the vote on final passage of H.R. 
1915, Jennifer’s Law or Grants to the States 
to Improve the Reporting of Unidentified and 
Missing Persons. If I had been present I would 
have voted ‘‘aye’’. 


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1169 

TRIBUTE TO D. MAE JOHNSON, W. 
RAY JOHNSON, MYSER JAMES 
KEELS, PASTOR CHESTER RIGGINS, 
AND JAMES E. WALTON 

HON. GEORGE RADANOVICH 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. RADANOVICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to pay tribute to D. Mae Johnson, W. 
Ray Johnson, Myser James Keels, Pastor 
Chester Riggins, and James E. Walton, Ph.D., 
for being selected the 1999 Portraits of Success 
program Honorees by KSEE 24 and 
Companies that Care. In celebration of African-
American History Month, these five leaders 
were honored for their unique contributions 
to the betterment of their community. 

D. Mae Johnson was a teacher in Fresno 
and Oakland for twenty years; during this time 
she also obtained a master’s degree in both 
Counseling and Guidance from California 
State University, Fresno (CSUF) and Administration 
from Pepperdine University. For the 
past 20 years she has been executive director 
of Quality Group Homes one of the Central 
Valley’s largest providers of residential treatment 
care for adolescents and children. Mrs. 
Johnson is involved with many professional, 
church and community organizations, including 
being a lifetime member of the NAACP. In 
1997, she helped found the Fresno chapter of 
Links Inc., a nonprofit humanitarian organization 
that provides support services to enrich 
the quality of life through cultural, civic and 
educational activities. Inspired by her niece’s 
long struggle with Sickle Cell Disease, she 
worked with Fresno Links and St. Agnes Hospital, 
to bring to Fresno, the only Sickle Cell 
Anemia program in the Valley. 
W. Ray Johnson has been a dedicated public 
servant for three decades. He is the Director 
of Community Resources for the City of 
Fresno. He reports to the City Manager, and 
works closely with the Mayor and City Council 
members. He was formerly the Fresno Deputy 
City Manager and Director of Human Resources. 
One of his proudest accomplishments 
was his role in establishing a facility for 
the African-American Museum for which he 
has helped to secure almost half-a-million dollars 
in funding over the years. He is currently 
instrumental in setting up the African-American 
Multi-Service Center as a one-stop facility to 
work with youth and gang members. Mr. Johnson 
has served on many boards and commissions, 
including two terms as vice president of 
the NAACP. His many awards include State of 
California Black Women Organized for Political 
Action, Man of the Year award, United Black 
Men Community Service award, California 
State Assembly Civic Involvement award, and 
the California State Senate Outstanding Community 
Contribution award. 
Myser James Keels has long given himself 
to benefit the Fresno community. For 27 
years, he was a groundsman with the Fresno 
County Parks and Recreation Department until 
has retirement in 1995. Along with park upkeep 
and worker supervision, he also provided 
supervision of adult and youth offender programs. 
He gave ten years to the County of 
Fresno Social Security Board, eight to the 
County Human Services Advisory Board, and 
two to the Equal Opportunities Commission. 
Mr. Keels also served on the Conservation 

Corps Commission Community at Large Revitalization 
Board, Southwest Edison Planning 
Committee, Fresno Neighborhood Alliance, as 
a deacon for St. Joseph’s Baptist Church, 
president of the Black Political Council, president 
of the Coalition for Cooperative Development 
& Community Development Corporation, 
treasurer of King of Kings Center Board of Directors, 
vice chairperson of Westside Fellowship 
and board member of Central California 
Legal Services. Honors and awards have 
come from these entities and many more including 
a special Certificate of Appreciation for 
11 years of assisting alcoholics in their recovery. 


Pastor Chester Riggins has served the St. 
Rest Missionary Baptist Church since 1950 as 
a Sunday School teacher, Baptist training 
union instructor, church clerk, financial secretary, 
deacon, chairman of the Deacon Board 
and chairman of the Church Pulpit Committee. 
For many years he was a mail carrier for the 
Postal Services, but resigned in 1979 to serve 
the church full time. Pastor Riggins’ activities 
outside the church have included being the 
temporary chairman for organizing the Fresno 
Model Cities Program, member and officer of 
the West Fresno Interdenominational Ministers’ 
Alliance, charter member of the Fresno 
Police Program, member of the Concerned 
Citizens for Quality Education, secretary-treasurer 
of the Home Mission Board of the California 
State Convention and 1st Vice Moderator 
Emeritus of the St. John Missionary Baptist 
Association. 

Dr. James E. Walton, Ph.D., has been 
teaching since 1967 and has been a professor 
of English at CSUF since 1990. He previously 
taught at Mt. Union College for 20 years and 
was an exchange professor in Osaka, Japan 
in 1988. Dr. Walton served as a member of 
Search Committees at CSUF for the Dean of 
Education, Human Relations Director and vice 
president and has been a member of the 
Committee on Academic Policies and the 
Committee on Faculty and Strategic Planning. 
Apart from the university, he has served as Library 
Trustee, on the Fair Housing Board, and 
as a Board Member of the American Red 
Cross, Junior League, and the NAACP. 

Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I pay 
tribute to D. Mae Johnson, W. Ray Johnson, 
Myser James Keels, Pastor Chester Riggins 
and Dr. James E. Walton, Ph.D. for being recognized 
as the KSEE 24 Companies that Care 
1999 African-American Portraits of Success 
honorees. I applaud the contributions, ideas, 
and leadership they have exhibited in our 
community. I ask my colleagues to join me in 
wishing these fine people many more years of 
success. 

f 


TRIBUTE TO ROBERT D. 
ANDERSON, JR. 

HON. ANNA G. ESHOO 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Robert D. Anderson, Jr., an extraordinary 
citizen of San Mateo County, California, 
who will be honored by the San Mateo Central 
Labor Council on Saturday, June 12, 1999. 

Robert D. Anderson, Jr. has been a leader 
in both the labor movement and his commu


nity for the last twenty-five years. After nineteen 
years of exceptional leadership and service, 
Bob has announced that he is stepping 
down as President of the San Mateo County 
Labor Council. 

Throughout his career bob has dedicated 
himself to improving the living and working 
conditions for families in San Mateo County 
and the airline industry nationwide. He is a 
former United Airlines mechanic and a member 
of the International Association of Machinists, 
Local Lodge 1781. He is currently the 
ground safety coordinator at San Francisco 
International Airport. 

During his tenure as President he helped 
establish, build and chair the San Francisco 
Airport Labor Coalition and its predecessor, 
the Airport Health and Safety Coalition. He 
has also served on the advisory boards of the 
California Occupational Safety Coalition and 
Health Administration, and the Labor Occupational 
Health program at the University of California, 
Berkeley. 

Over the last twelve years bob has worked 
with labor and community leaders to bring affordable, 
high-quality, around-the-clock 
childcare to families who work non-traditional 
hours. He has also served on the Board of Directors 
of PALCARE, San Mateo County’s 
community-based childcare center since its 
opening in 1993. 

Mr. Speaker, Robert D. Anderson, Jr. is an 
outstanding individual, a respected labor and 
community leader, and a valued friend. I salute 
him for his remarkable contributions and 
commitment to our community and I ask my 
colleagues to join me in honoring him upon his 
retirement as President of the San Meteo 
Central Labor Council. 

f 


HONORING NAVAL COMMANDER 
KENT ROMINGER 

HON. SCOTT McINNIS 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. MCINNIS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
take a moment to recognize the career of one 
of Del Norte, Colorado’s natives who has 
shown great character and motivation, Naval 
Commander Kent Rominger. In doing so, I 
would like to honor this individual who has illustrated 
the notion of duty and service for 
Colorado and the Navy alike. 

Kent Rominger has been flying for the Navy 
since 1978, when he earned his degree in civil 
engineering from Colorado State University. 
As a Naval officer, Rominger flew in Operation 
Desert Storm. In 1992, Officer Rominger was 
selected to join the astronaut program. Since 
his start in the astronaut program. Commander 
Rominger has piloted three previous 
space missions, one of those being in the 
space shuttle Discovery. 

On May 27, 1999, Kent Rominger returned 
to the space shuttle Discovery and guided six 
astronauts into orbit. As commander, 
Rominger oversaw all aspects of the mission 
and the crew. This is a great honor for 
Rominger to command a space shuttle that he 
once piloted into space. 

Kent Rominger is an outstanding citizen of 
Colorado who’s accomplishments will be long 
remembered and admired. Selfless service 
and dedication makes Commander Rominger 


E1170 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks June 8, 1999 

a valued and respected man. His achievement residents and is not adverse to taking risks for Mr. Speaker, SCBH participants are people 
are a great service to us all, and for that we potential rewards. Further, it recognizes and who are personally committed and who dediowe 
him a debt of gratitude. values the unique importance of innovative ap-cate their time, talent and knowledge to influ


proaches in responding to health issues that ence the organizations they represent to sup-

f 


IN RECOGNITION OF THE SOLANO 

COALITION FOR BETTER HEALTH 

HON. MIKE THOMPSON 

OF CALIFORNIA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr. Speaker, 
I am pleased today to recognize the Solano 
Coalition for Better Health (SCBH), which is 
celebrating its 10th Anniversary year. On June 
5, SCBH kicked off its 10th Anniversary Celebration 
by hosting an Enrollment Day for the 
Solano Kids Insurance Program (SKIP), in an 
effort to promote free or low cost health insurance 
options for Solano County children, and 
it’s fitting that we honor SCBH at this time for 
its many contributions to the community. 

SCBH is a nonprofit organization of health 
care administrators, government officials, local 
physicians, representatives from the business 
and educational communities, and neighborhood 
advocates. Its focus is to improve the 
health and quality of life in Solano County by 
sharing resources through effective partnerships. 
It is a nationally recognized model of 
public and private partnerships, creating system 
changes in the provision of care and services 
to promote and improve the health and 
safety of the people and their communities. 

SCBH works in a collaborative fashion and 
places high value on efforts that benefit the 
community, neighborhoods and people of Solano 
County, and meets the interests and 
needs of individuals and specific constituencies 
within the community. 

SCBH recognizes and values diverse communities, 
neighborhoods and people within 
Solano County and encourages their participation 
in improving the health of all county residents, 
through a multi-lingual network of 
health and social services providers, reflective 
of the population of Solano County in gender, 
sexual orientation, culture, ethnicity, and disability. 


SCBH is innovative in its approach to addressing 
the health needs of Solano County 

disproportionately impact ethnic communities. 
SCBH has initiated such unique programs 
as: 

(1) the Partnership HealthPlan of California, 
a public/private organization designed to provide 
a cost-effective method of health care delivery 
to Medi-Cal recipients in Solano County, 
which has now expanded to include Napa 
County 
(2) Healthier Solano Communities, an initiative 
that promotes wellness in each of Solano 
County’s seven cities by creating or supporting 
a team in each city to look at issues in each 
city that impact health and wellness; identify 
one or more issues in each city that can be 
addressed; and, develop partnerships and 
plans to address those issues. 
(3) the Community Services Task Force, 
which includes volunteers who are service 
providers from public, private, County nonprofit, 
and community based organizations, 
and advocates for health and human services 
that are culturally, linguistically, geographically, 
physically, and financially accessible to all 
residents of Solano County. 
(4) Solano Health Improvement Initiative 
(SHII), which addresses the most critical indicators 
of health in the community, and has expanded 
countywide efforts to pursue strategies 
that address three initial goals: 
1. All children will be healthy and ready to 
learn when they enter school. 
2. Comprehensive prevention, early detection, 
and support services will be developed 
for individuals living with cancer in Solano 
County. 
3. People with diabetes or at risk of diabetes 
will live well and independently in the community. 
In recognition of the SHII’s outstanding cancer 
community outreach efforts, the U.S. Postal 
Service presented the first Prostate Cancer 
Awareness Stamp Dedication in California on 
June 5th at the SCBH’s 10th Anniversary celebration. 


(5) SKIP which provides outreach efforts to 
enroll children in free or low cost health insurance 
options in Solano County. 
port the Coalition’s mission. I commend them 
for their outstanding contributions to the community. 


f 


HONORING THE ACHIEVEMENT OF 
REBECCA KREPICK 

HON. GENE GREEN 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor the achievement of Rebecca 
Krepick. On May 29, 1999, Rebecca graduated 
from Klein High School. I ask my colleagues 
in the House of Representatives join 
me in congratulating her and her family. 

Although this achievement deserves recognition 
in and of itself, Rebecca accomplished 
much more. When she was in second 
grade, the Anthony Robinson Foundation offered 
600 students a $20,000 scholarship if 
they maintained a B+ average, participated in 
community service, and were a model student 
for 10 years. On the day of graduation, less 
than thirty of these students completed the 
program. Rebecca’s achievement should be 
recognized and commended. 

Rebecca and her fellow scholarship recipients 
are examples of what is right with public 
education. They should be held up as role 
models for other students everywhere to emulate. 


Rebecca plans to use the scholarship at the 
University of Houston, one of the finest universities 
in our nation. Rebecca’s parents, Mr. 
and Mrs. George Barbosa, family, friends and 
community are very proud of her. We wish her 
well in her future education pursuits. Mr. 
Speaker, I ask that all Members join me in 
congratulating Rebecca Krepick for her outstanding 
achievement 


Tuesday, June 8, 1999 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 

Senate passed Department of Defense Appropriations, 2000 bill. 

House Committee ordered reported the Transportation appropriations 

for fiscal year 2000. 
House passed H.R. 1906, Agriculture appropriations. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S6645–S6728 

Measures Introduced: One bill was introduced, as 
follows: S. 1188. Page S6710 
Measures Reported: Reports were made as follows: 

S. 323, to redesignate the Black Canyon of the 
Gunnison National Monument as a national park 
and establish the Gunnison Gorge National Conservation 
Area, with an amendment in the nature of 
a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 106–69) 
S. 1009, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2000 for intelligence and intelligence-related activities 
of the United States Government, the Community 
Management Account, and the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability System. 
Page S6710 

Department of Defense Appropriations, 2000: 

By 93 yeas to 4 nays (Vote No. 158), Senate passed 

S. 1122, making appropriations for the Department 
of Defense for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2000, after taking action on the following amendments 
proposed thereto: Pages S6645–92 
Adopted: 

By a unanimous vote of 93 yeas (Vote No. 155), 
Stevens (for Grassley) Amendment No. 540, to reduce 
to $500,000 the threshold amount for the applicability 
of the requirement for advance matching 
of Department of Defense disbursements to particular 
obligations. Pages S6645–47 

Stevens Amendment No. 542, to provide funds 
for Army research, development, test and evaluation 
programs. Page S6647 

Stevens Amendment No. 543, to reduce funds 
under the heading Research, Development, Test, and 
Evaluation, Navy, and to increase funds under the 
heading Research, Development, Test, and Evalua


tion, Defense-Wide to reflect the transfer of the 
Joint Warfighting Experimentation Program. 

Page S6647 

Stevens Amendment No. 544, to provide funding 
for the American Red Cross Armed Forces Emergency 
Services program. Page S6647 

Stevens Amendment No. 545, to provide funding 
for U–2 cockpit modifications. Page S6647 

Stevens (for Inhofe) Amendment No. 552, to direct 
the Department of the Army to conduct a live 
fire, side-by-side operational test of the air-to-air 
Starstreak and air-to-air Stinger missiles from the 
AH–64D Longbow helicopter. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Mack) Amendment No. 553, to authorize 
use of $6,000,000 of Air Force Research, Development, 
Test, and Evaluation funds (in PE 
604604F) for the 3–D advanced track acquisition 
and imaging system. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Mack) Amendment No. 554, to authorize 
use of $3,000,000 of Navy Research, Development, 
Test, and Evaluation funds for electronic 
propulsion systems. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Mack) Amendment No. 555, to authorize 
use of $5,000,000 of Defense Drug Interdiction 
and Counter-Drug Activities funds for a ground 
processing station to support a tropical remote sensing 
radar. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Burns) Amendment No. 556, to provide 
additional funding for Army research and development 
to reduce pollution associated with industrial 
manufacturing waste systems. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for McConnell) Amendment No. 557, to 
correct the allocation of Navy operation and maintenance 
funds between two naval gun depot overhaul 
programs. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens Amendment No. 558, to provide additional 
funding for prototyping and testing of a water 

D623 


D624 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST June 8, 1999 

distributor for the Army Pallet-Loading System Engineer 
Mission Module System. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Bennett) Amendment No. 559, to 
designate funds for Air Force alternative missile engine 
source development. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Hollings) Amendment No. 560, to 
set aside $3,000,000 of Army Research, Development, 
Test, and Evaluation funds for the National 
Defense Center for Environmental Excellence Pollution 
Prevention Initiative. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Reid) Amendment No. 561, to provide 
funds for a hot gas decontamination facility. 

Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Lieberman) Amendment No. 562, to 
provide funds for the establishment of a Department 
of Defense Center for Medical Informatics. 

Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Reid) Amendment No. 563, to increase 
funds for the Marine Corps K–Band Test Obscuration 
Pairing System. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Kerrey) Amendment No. 564, to 
make available certain funds to continue and expand 
on-going work in recombinant vaccine research 
against biological warfare agents. Pages S6651–52 

Stevens (for Lautenberg) Amendment No. 565, to 
require conveyance of certain Army firefighting 
equipment at Military Ocean Terminal, New Jersey. 

Pages S6651–53 

Stevens (for Biden) Amendment No. 566, to provide 
$3,000,000 (in PE 62234N) for the Navy for 
basic research on advanced composite materials processing 
(specifically, resin transfer molding, vacuum-
assisted resin transfer molding, and co-infusion resin 
transfer molding). Pages S6651–53 

Stevens (for Domenici) Amendment No. 567, to 
set aside $5,000,000 of Army Research, Development, 
Test, and Evaluation funds (in PE 605604A) 
for Information Warfare Vulnerability Analysis. 

Pages S6651–53 

Stevens (for Domenici) Amendment No. 568, to 
set aside $7,500,000 of Air Force Research, Development, 
Test, and Evaluation funds (in PE 603605F) 
for the GEO High Resolution Space Object Imaging 
Program. Pages S6651–53 

Stevens (for Wyden/Smith of Oregon) Amendment 
No. 569, to set aside $4,000,000 for Army research, 
development, test, and evaluation of elastin-based artificial 
tissues and dye targeted laser fusion techniques 
for healing internal injuries. Pages S6651–53 

Stevens Amendment No. 570, to provide funds 
for supersonic aircraft noise mitigation research and 
development efforts. Pages S6651–53 

Stevens (for Leahy) Amendment No. 571, to provide 
for the Secretary of Defense to submit a report 
to the congressional defense committees describing 
the extraordinary circumstances, the purpose and du


ration of the training program, the United States 
forces and the foreign security forces involved in the 
training program, and the information relating to 
human rights violations that necessitates the waiver. 

Pages S6651–53 

Stevens (for Shelby) Amendment No. 572, to provide 
from within the funds for the Defense Acquisition 
University, up to $5,000,000 may be spent on 
a pilot program using state-of-the-art training technology 
that would train the acquisition workforce in 
a simulated government procurement environment. 

Pages S6651–53 

Stevens (for Inouye) Amendment No. 573, to provide 
that during the current fiscal year, under regulations 
prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the 
Center of Excellence for Disaster Management and 
Humanitarian Assistance may also pay, or authorize 
payment for, the expenses of providing or facilitating 
education and training for appropriate military and 
civilian personnel of foreign countries in disaster 
management and humanitarian assistance. 

Pages S6651–53 

Stevens (for Santorum) Amendment No. 592, to 
set aside $4,000,000 for the Manufacturing Technology 
Assistance Pilot Program. Pages S6658–59 

Stevens (for Helms) Amendment No. 593, to set 
aside $5,000,000 of Army Research, Development, 
Test, and Evaluation funds for visual display performance 
and visual display environmental research 
and development. Pages S6658–59 

Stevens (for Byrd) Amendment No. 594, to increase 
by $10,000,000 the amount provided for the 
Army for other procurement for an immediate assessment 
of biometrics sensors and templates repository 
requirements, and for combining and consolidating 
biometrics security technology and other information 
assurance technologies to accomplish a more focused 
and effective information assurance effort. 

Pages S6658–59 

Stevens (for Byrd) Amendment No. 595, to set 
aside $10,000,000 of Operation and Maintenance, 
Defense-Wide funds for carrying out first-year actions 
of the 5-year research plan for addressing low-
level exposures to chemical warfare agents. 

Pages S6658–59 

Stevens (for Ashcroft/Bond) Amendment No. 596, 
to express the sense of Congress commending the 
men and women of Whiteman Air Force Base, Missouri, 
for their ongoing contributions to Operation 
Allied Force over Yugoslavia. Pages S6658–59 

Stevens (for Smith of New Hampshire) Amendment 
No. 597, to provide funding for the Air Force 
U–2 aircraft defensive system modernization. 

Pages S6658–59 

Stevens (for Harkin) Amendment No. 598, to set 
aside $25,185,000, the amount provided for research 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D625 

and development relating to Persian Gulf illnesses, 
of which $4,000,000 is to be available for continuation 
of research into Gulf War syndrome that includes 
multidisciplinary studies of fibromyalgia, 
chronic fatigue syndrome and $2,000,000 is to be 
available for expansion of the research program in 
the Upper Great Plains region. Pages S6658–59 

Stevens (for Graham) Amendment No. 599, to set 
aside $17,500,000 for procurement of the F–15A/B 
data link for the Air National Guard. Pages S6658–59 

Stevens (for Collins) Amendment No. 600, to increase 
funds for the Navy MK–43 Machine Gun 
Conversion. Pages S6658–59 

Stevens (for Inouye) Amendment No. 601, to provide 
for the development of Ford Island, Hawaii. 

Pages S6658–59 

Inouye Amendment No. 581, to authorize the Department 
of Defense to enter into agreements with 
the Veterans Administration and Federally-funded 
health agencies providing services to Native Hawaiians 
for the purpose of establishing a partnership 
similar to the Alaska Federal Health Care Partnership, 
in order to maximize Federal resources in the 
provision of health care services by Federally-funded 
health agencies, applying telemedicine technologies. 

Pages S6655–56, S6666–67 

Stevens (for Lott/Cochran) Modified Amendment 
No. 589, to provide $3,800,000 (in PE 0602315N) 
for continued research and development on polymer 
cased ammunition. Pages S6657, S6669 

Stevens (for Kohl) Amendment No. 588, to authorize 
the use of $220,000 for a study at Badger 
Army Ammunition Plant, Wisconsin, relating to environmental 
restoration and remediation at weapons 
and ammunition production facilities. 

Pages S6657, S6669 

Stevens (for Voinovich) Amendment No. 591, to 
provide for a study of the long term solutions to the 
removal of ordnance from the Toussaint River, Ohio. 

Pages S6657–58, S6669 

Stevens (for Brownback) Amendment No. 602 (to 
Amendment No. 578), to provide for the suspension 
of certain sanctions against India and Pakistan. 

Pages S6678–79 

Stevens (for Roberts) Amendment No. 578, to extend 
for a period of 3 years the Agriculture Export 
Relief Act of 1998 and the India-Pakistan Relief Act 
of 1998. Pages S6655, S6678–79 

Inouye (for Biden) Amendment No. 547, to set 
aside $63,041,000 of Air Force research, development, 
test, and evaluation funds for C–5 aircraft 
modernization. Pages S6648, S6679 

Stevens (for Biden) Amendment No. 603 (to 
Amendment No. 547), of a clarifying nature. 

Page S6679 

Stevens (for Nickles) Amendment No. 551, to 
prohibit the use of certain funds for reconstruction 
activities in the Republic of Serbia (excluding the 
province of Kosovo) as long as Slobodan Milosevic 
remains the President of the Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). 

Pages S6651, S6679 

Stevens (for Gorton) Modified Amendment No. 
575, to authorize $4,000,000 of Army research, development, 
test, and evaluation funds (in PE 
60481A) to be used for the Advanced Integrated 
Helmet System Program. Pages S6654, S6679–80 

Stevens (for Domenici) Amendment No. 577, to 
provide for a report by the Office of Management 
and Budget and the Federal Communications Commission 
to the appropriate congressional committees 
regarding the competitive bidding process. 

Pages S6654–55 

Stevens (for Domenici) Amendment No. 604, to 
provide for a report by the Office of Management 
and Budget and the Federal Communications Commission 
to the appropriate congressional committees 
regarding the competitive bidding process. 

Page S6680 

Subsequently, adoption of Amendment No. 604 
(listed above) was vitiated. Page S6692 

Inouye (for Bingaman) Modified Amendment No. 
580, to express the sense of Congress regarding the 
accidental civilian casualties of live ammunition testing 
at Vieques, Puerto Rico, and actions to prevent 
a recurrence of such a tragic accident. 

Pages S6655, S6679–80 

Stevens (for Shelby) Modified Amendment No. 
586, to provide funds for continued research and development 
in Army Space Control Technology. 

Pages S6657, S6679–80 

Stevens (for Graham) Modified Amendment No. 
590, to set aside an additional $7,300,000 for space 
launch facilities, for a second team of personnel for 
range reconfiguration to accommodate launch schedules. 
Pages S6657, S6679–80 

Stevens (for Lott) Amendment No. 576, to provide 
for a report regarding the operational planning 
and other preparations of the Department of Defense, 
including but not limited to the U.S. Pacific Command, 
to implement the relevant sections of the Taiwan 
Relations Act since its enactment in 1979. 

Pages S6654, S6680 

McCain Amendment No. 585, to authorize the 
Secretary of Defense to waive certain domestic source 
or content requirements in the procurement of items. 

Pages S6656–57, S6680 

Stevens (for Hutchison) Amendment No. 574, to 
authorize a project at Brooks Air Force Base, Texas, 
to evaluate methods of improving efficiency in the 
operation of military installations. Pages S6653, S6680 


D626 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST June 8, 1999 

Inouye (for Kennedy) Amendment No. 582, to 
authorize the use of up to $35,000,000 for the retrofitting 
and improvement of the current inventory of 
Patriot missiles to meet current and projected threats 
from cruise missiles. Pages S6656, S6680 

Gregg Modified Amendment No. 548, to prohibit 
the use of refugee relief funds for long-term, regional 
development or reconstruction in Southeastern Europe. 
Pages S6648–49, S6654, S6680 

Stevens (for Bond) Amendment No. 587, to provide 
funds for the purchase of four (4) F–15 E aircraft. 
Pages S6657, S6681 

Stevens (for Coverdell) Amendment No. 605, to 
express the sense of the Senate regarding the investigation 
into the June 25, 1996 bombing of Khobar 
Towers. Page S6681 

Stevens (for Domenici) Amendment No. 606, to 
withdraw and reserve certain lands within the State 
of New Mexico for military uses. Page S6681 

Stevens/Domenici Amendment No. 607, to provide 
for the renewal of military land withdrawals. 

Page S6681 

Rejected: 

By 16 yeas to 81 nays (Vote No. 156), McCain 
Amendment No. 584, to reduce amounts appropriated 
for unrequested, low-priority, unnecessary, 
and wasteful spending by $3,100,000,000. 

Pages S6656, S6660–66, S6669–70 

Boxer/Harkin Amendment No. 541, to provide a 
substitute to section 8106, requiring that not later 
than March 1, 2000, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to Congress a report on the inventory and 
status of operational support aircraft, Commander-in-
Chief support aircraft, and command support aircraft 
of the Department of Defense. (By 66 yeas to 31 
nays (Vote No. 157), Senate tabled the amendment.) 

Pages S6647, S6670–78 

Withdrawn: 

Byrd Amendment No. 549, to set aside 
$10,000,000 of Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
Wide funds for carrying out first-year actions 
of the 5-year research plan for addressing low-level 
exposures to chemical warfare agents. 

Pages S6649–50, S6666 

Byrd Amendment No. 550, to increase by 
$10,000,000 the amount provided for the Army for 
other procurement for an immediate assessment of 
biometrics sensors and templates repository requirements, 
and for combining and consolidating biometrics 
security technology and other information 
assurance technologies to accomplish a more focused 
and effective information assurance effort. 

Pages S6649–50, S6666 

Inouye (for Durbin) Amendment No. 579, relating 
to the conveyance of the remaining Army Reserve 
property at former Fort Sheridan, Illinois. 

Pages S6655, S6680–81 

Inouye (for Levin) Amendment No. 583, to reduce 
funding for the National Missile Defense program by 
$200,000,000 and to increase funding for Army 
modernization programs by $200,000,000. 

Pages S6656, S6681 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
that when the Senate receives the House companion 
bill, the Senate strike all after the enacting 
clause and insert in lieu thereof the text of S. 1122, 
as passed, and the House bill, as amended, be read 
for a third time and passed, that the Senate insist on 
its amendment, request a conference with the House 
thereon, and the Chair be authorized to appoint conferees 
on the part of the Senate. Further, that upon 
passage of the House companion bill, passage of S. 
1122 be vitiated and the Senate bill be indefinitely 
postponed. Pages S6647–48 

Y2K Act—Agreement: A unanimous-consent 
agreement was reached providing for the cloture vote 
on the motion to proceed to S. 96, to regulate commerce 
between and among the several States by providing 
for the orderly resolution of disputes arising 
out of computer-based problems related to processing 
data that includes a 2-digit expression of that 
year’s date, scheduled for Wednesday, June 9, 1999 
be vitiated, and the Senate resume consideration of 
the bill. Page S6692 

Satellite Copyright, Competition, and Consumer 
Protection Act: Senate insisted on its amendment, 
requested a conference with the House, and the 
Chair appointed the following conferees: from the 
Committee on the Judiciary: Senators Hatch, Thurmond, 
DeWine, Leahy, and Kohl; and from the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: 
Senators McCain, Stevens, and Hollings. 

Page S6728 

Nominations Received: Senate received the following 
nominations: 

Franz S. Leichter, of New York, to be a Director 
of the Federal Housing Finance Board for a term expiring 
February 27, 2006. 

Douglas L. Miller, of South Dakota, to be a Director 
of the Federal Housing Finance Board for a term 

expiring February 27, 2002. Page S6728 
Messages From the House: Page S6695 
Measures Referred: Page S6695 
Communications: Pages S6695–S6702 
Petitions: Pages S6702–10 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D627 

Statements on Introduced Bills: Pages S6710–11 
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6711–13 
Amendments Submitted: Pages S6713–25 
Notices of Hearings: Pages S6725–26 
Authority for Committees: Page S6726 
Additional Statements: Pages S6726–28 

Record Votes: Four record votes were taken today. 
(Total—158) Pages S6646–47, S6669–70, S6678, S6692 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m., and 
adjourned at 6:52 p.m., until 9:30 a.m., on Wednesday, 
June 9, 1999. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks 
of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s 
Record on page S6728.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on Armed Services: Committee ordered favorably 
reported S. 1009, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2000 for intelligence and intelligence-
related activities of the United States Government, 
the Community Management Account, and the Central 
Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability 
System. 

NOMINATIONS 

Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded 
hearings on the nominations of General Eric K. 
Shinseki, USA, for reappointment to the grade of 
general and for appointment as Chief of Staff, United 

States Army, and Lieutenant General James L. Jones, 
Jr., USMC, to be general and for appointment as 
Commandant of the Marine Corps, after the nominees 
testified and answered questions on their own 
behalf. Gen. Shinseki was introduced by Senator 
Inouye and Lt. Gen. Jones was introduced by Senator 
Warner. 

CENTRAL AFRICAN WARS 

Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on African 
Affairs concluded hearings to examine the Central 
African Wars and the future of United States-
Africa policy, after receiving testimony from Susan 

E. Rice, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs; 
I. William Zartman, Johns Hopkins University 
School for Advanced International Studies, and Marina 
Ottaway, Carnegie Endowment for International 
Peace, both of Washington, DC; and William Reno, 
Florida International University, Miami. 
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 

Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded 
closed oversight hearings on certain activities of the 
Department of Justice, after receiving testimony 
from Janet Reno, Attorney General, Department of 
Justice. 

NOMINATIONS 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Committee concluded 
hearings on the nominations of Kenneth W. Kizer, 
of California, to be Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
for Health, and John T. Hanson, of Virginia, 
to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Public 
and Intergovernmental Affairs, after the nominees 
testified and answered questions in their own behalf. 

h 


House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Bills Introduced: 78 public bills, H.R. 2005–2082; 
and 10 resolutions, H.J. Res. 56–57, H. Con. Res. 
125–128, and H. Res. 199, 201–203, were introduced. 
Pages H3856–59 

Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows: 

H.R. 457, to amend title 5, United States Code, 
to increase the amount of leave time available to a 
Federal employee in any year in connection with 
serving as an organ donor (H. Rept. 106–174); and 
H. Res. 200, providing for consideration of H.R. 
1401, to authorize appropriations for fiscal years 
2000 and 2001 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for fiscal years 2000 and 2001 (H. Rept. 
106–175). Page H3856 

Speaker Pro Tempore: Read a letter from the 
Speaker wherein he designated Representative Gibbons 
to act as Speaker pro tempore for today. 

Page H3767 

Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the 
guest Chaplain, Rev. Dr. Peter Kurowski of California, 
Missouri. Pages H3768–69 

Journal Vote: Agreed to the Speaker’s approval of 
the Journal of Monday, June 7, by a yea and nay 
vote of 355 yeas to 46 nays with 1 voting ‘‘present’’, 
Roll No. 170. Pages H3769, H3773 


D628 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST June 8, 1999 

Recess: The House recessed at 9:11 a.m. and recon


vened at 10:00 a.m. Page H3768 
Member Sworn: Representative-elect David Vitter 
presented himself in the well of the House and was 
administered the oath of office by the Speaker. 

Page H3774 

Education Land Grant Act: The House passed 

H.R. 150, to amend the Act popularly known as the 
Recreation and Public Purposes Act to authorize disposal 
of certain public lands or national forest lands 
to local education agencies for use for elementary or 
secondary schools, including public charter schools 
by a yea and nay vote of 420 yeas with none voting 
‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 171. Agreed to amend the title. 
Pages H3776–79 

Agreed to the Committee amendment in the nature 
of a substitute made in order by the rule. 

Page H3779 

H. Res. 189, the rule that provided for consideration 
of the bill was agreed to by a voice vote. 
Pages H3774–76 

Agriculture, Rural Development, FDA, and Related 
Agencies Appropriations: The House passed 

H.R. 1906, making appropriations for Agriculture, 
Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, 
and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2000 by a yea and nay vote of 246 yeas 
to 183 nays, Roll No 177. The House completed 
general debate on May 25 and considered amendments 
on May 25 and 26. Pages H3780–H3823 
By a recorded vote of 207 ayes to 220 noes, Roll 
No. 176, rejected the Obey motion to recommit the 
bill to the Committee on Appropriations with instructions 
to report it back to the House with an 
amendment that increases amounts for FDA Salaries 
and Expenses by $20 million. Pages H3821–23 

Agreed to: 
The Sanders amendment that provides funding for 
a national pilot program to promote Agri-Tourism; 

Page H3783 

The Kaptur amendment that provides $7 million 
for the Outreach for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers 
program; Pages H3783–84 

The Meek of Florida amendment that prohibits 
the importation of meat or poultry food products 
unless they meet USDA health and safety standards 
for domestic products; Pages H3788–89 

The Traficant amendment that ensures compliance 
with Buy America Act provisions and penalizes those 
who fraudulently affix ‘‘Made in America’’ labels; 

Page H3789 

The Coburn amendment that prohibits any funds 
to be used by the FDA for the testing, development, 
or approval (including approval of production, manufacturing, 
or distribution) of any drug for the chem


ical inducement of abortion (agreed to by a recorded 
vote of 217 ayes to 214 noes, Roll No. 173); and 

Pages H3798–H3812 

The Young of Florida amendment that reduces 
funding in the bill by $102.5 million (agreed to by 
a recorded vote of 234 ayes to 195 noes, Roll No. 
175). Pages H3817–19 

Rejected: 

The DeFazio amendment that sought to prohibit 
funding for the destruction of wild animals for the 
purpose of protecting livestock (rejected by a recorded 
vote of 193 ayes to 230 noes, Roll No. 172); 
and Pages H3789–93, H3794–95 

The Chabot amendment that sought to prohibit 
funding for Market Access Program allocations (rejected 
by a recorded vote of 72 ayes to 355 noes, 
Roll No. 174). Pages H3812–17 

Withdrawn: 

The Nethercutt amendment was offered, but subsequently 
withdrawn, that sought to prohibit unilateral 
economic sanctions against a foreign government, 
lift current sanctions as they relate to agriculture 
and medical supplies, and provide for a national 
security waiver. Pages H3795–96 

H. Res. 185, the rule that provided for consideration 
of the bill was agreed to on May 25. 
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea and nay votes and 
five recorded votes developed during the proceedings 
of the House today and appear on pages H3773, 
H3779, H3795, H3811–12, H3816–17, H3819, 
H3822–23, and H3823. There were no quorum 
calls. 

Amendments Ordered Printed: Amendments ordered 
printed pursuant to the rule appear on pages 
H3862–66. 

Adjournment: The House met at 9:00 a.m. and adjourned 
at midnight. 

Committee Meetings 

COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING 
COMMISSION REAUTHORIZATION 

Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Risk Management, 
Research, and Specialty Crops continued 
hearings on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
Reauthorization. Testimony was heard from 
public witnesses. 

TRANSPORTATION APPROPRIATIONS 

Committee on Appropriations: Ordered reported the 
Transportation appropriations for fiscal year 2000. 

SOCIAL SECURITY TRUST FUND 

Committee on the Budget: Social Security Task Force 
held a hearing on the Social Security Trust Fund: 
Myth and Reality. Testimony was heard from David 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D629 

Koitz, Congressional Research Service, Library of 
Congress; and a public witness. 

KANSAS—AD VALOREM TAX REFUND 

Committee on Commerce: Subcommittee on Energy and 
Power held a hearing on the Kansas Ad Valorem 
Tax Refund. Testimony was heard from Representative 
Moran of Kansas; Douglas Smith, General 
Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 
Department of Energy; Carla Stovall, Attorney General, 
State of Kansas; Sheila Lumpe, Chair, Public 
Service Commission, State of Missouri; and public 
witnesses. 

MIDDLE EAST DEVELOPMENTS 

Committee on International Relations: Held a hearing on 
Developments in the Middle East. Testimony was 
heard from Martin S. Indyk, Assistant Secretary, 
Near Eastern Affairs, Department of State. 

CHILD CUSTODY PROTECTION ACT 

Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on the Constitution 
approved for full Committee action H.R. 
1218, Child Custody Protection Act. 

NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION 
ACT 

Committee on Rules: Granted, by voice vote, a structured 
rule on H.R. 1401, National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001, providing 
one hour of general debate to be equally divided 
between the chairman and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Armed Services. The 
rule waives all points of order against consideration 
of the bill. The rule makes in order the Committee 
on Armed Services amendment in the nature of a 
substitute now printed in the bill, which shall be 
considered as read. The rule waives all points of 
order against the amendment in the nature of a substitute. 
The rule makes in order only those amendments 
printed in the Rules Committee report and 
pro forma amendments offered by the chairman and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Armed Services for the purpose of debate. The rule 
provides that the amendments printed in part B of 
the Rules Committee report may be offered en bloc. 
The rule makes in order the amendment by Representative 
Cox printed in the Congressional Record 
on June 8, 1999. The rule provides that, except as 
specified in section 5 of the resolution, amendments 
will be considered only in the order specified in the 
report, may be offered only by a Member designated 
in the report, shall be considered as read, and shall 
not be subject to a demand for a division of the 
question. The rules provides that, except as otherwise 
specified in the report, each amendment printed 
in the report shall be debatable for 10 minutes 

equally divided and controlled by the proponent and 
an opponent and shall not be subject to amendment 
(except that the chairman and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Armed Services each 
may offer one pro forma amendment for the purpose 
of further debate on any pending amendment). The 
rule waives all points of order against the amendments 
printed in the Rules Committee report and 
those amendments en bloc described in section 3 of 
the resolution. The rule provides an additional period 
of general debate prior to the consideration of 
the last five amendments in part A of the Rules 
Committee report for one hour, which shall be confined 
to the subject of the United States policy relating 
to the conflict in Kosovo. The rule authorizes 
the chairman of the Armed Services Committee or 
his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting 
of amendments printed in part B of the Rules Committee 
report or germane modifications thereto, 
which shall be considered as read (except that modifications 
shall be reported), shall be debatable for 20 
minutes equally divided between the chairman and 
ranking minority member of the Armed Services 
Committee or their designees, and shall not be subject 
to amendment or demand for a division of the 
question. The rule provides that, for the purposes of 
inclusion in such amendments en bloc, an amendment 
printed in the form of a motion to strike may 
be modified to the form of a germane perfecting 
amendment to the text originally proposed to be 
stricken. The original proponent of an amendment 
included in such amendments en bloc may insert a 
statement in the Congressional Record immediately 
before the disposition of the en bloc amendments. 
The rule allows the Chairman of the Committee of 
the Whole to postpone votes during consideration of 
the bill, and to reduce voting time to five minutes 
on a postponed question if the vote follows a fifteen 
minute vote. The rule permits the Chairman of the 
Committee of the Whole to recognize for consideration 
of any amendment printed in the report out of 
the order in which printed, but not sooner than one 
hour after the chairman of the Armed Services Committee 
or a designee announces from the floor a request 
to that effect. The rule provides that before 
consideration of any other amendment it will be in 
order to consider the amendment printed in the 
Congressional Record on June 8, 1999, by Representative 
Cox, if offered by Representative Cox or 
his designee, which will be considered as read, debatable 
for one hour equally divided and controlled 
by the proponent and an opponent, will not be subject 
to amendment, and will not be subject to a demand 
for a division of the question in the House or 
in the Committee of the Whole, and waives all 
points of order against the amendment. The rule 


D630 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST June 8, 1999 

provides one motion to recommit, with or without 
instructions. The rule provides that after passage of 

H.R. 1401, it shall be in order to take from the 
Speaker’s table S. 1059 and to consider the Senate 
bill in the House. The rule waives all points of order 
against the Senate bill and against its consideration. 
The rule provides that it shall be in order to move 
to strike all after the enacting clause of the Senate 
bill and to insert in lieu thereof the provisions of 
H.R. 1401 as passed by the House and waives all 
points of order against the motion. Finally, the rule 
provides that House Resolution 195 is laid on the 
table. 
U.S.-CHINA TRADE RELATIONS 

Committee on Ways and Means: Subcommittee on 
Trade held a hearing on United States-China trade 
relations and the possible accession of China to the 
World Trade Organization. Testimony was heard 
from Representatives Smith of New Jersey, Frank of 
Massachusetts, Wolf, Pelosi, Rohrabacher, Dooley of 
California and Blumenauer; Richard W. Fisher, Deputy 
U.S. Trade Representative; Stanley Roth, Assistant 
Secretary, East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Department 
of State; and public witnesses. 

BRIEFING—ENCRYPTION ISSUES 

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Met in executive 
session to hold a briefing on Encryption Issues. 
The Committee was briefed by Barbara McNamara, 
Deputy Director, NSA, Department of Defense. 

FBI HANDLING—COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
MATTERS—LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL 
LABORATORY 

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Met in executive 
session to hold a hearing on FBI Handling of 
Counterintelligence Matters at the Los Alamos National 
Laboratory. Testimony was heard from departmental 
witnesses. 

Joint Meetings 

WESTERN EUROPEAN RELIGIOUS 
FREEDOM 

Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Committee 
concluded hearings to examine religious freedom 
issues in Western Europe, focusing on religious 
minorities and growing government intolerance, 
after receiving testimony from Willy Fautre, Human 
Rights Without Frontiers, Brussels, Belgium; Louis 
DeMeo, Grace Church of Nimes, Nimes, France; and 
Alain Garay, on behalf of the Jehovah’s Witnesses, 
Paris, France. 

COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY, 
JUNE 9, 1999 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on District 
of Columbia, to hold hearings on proposed budget estimates 
for fiscal year 2000 for the government of the District 
of Columbia, 9:30 a.m., SD–192. 

Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, State, and the 
Judiciary, business meeting to mark up proposed legislation 
making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, 
Justice and State, the Judiciary, and related agencies 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1999, 2 
p.m., S–146, Capitol. 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to 
hold hearings on issues relating to financial privacy, 10 
a.m., SD–538. 

Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to 
hold hearings on S. 837, to enable drivers to choose a 
more affordable form of auto insurance that also provides 
for more adequate and timely compensation for accident 
victims, 9:30 a.m., SR–253. 

Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Subcommittee 
on Water and Power, to hold oversight hearings on the 
process to determine the future of the four lower Snake 
River dams and conduct oversight on the Northwest 
Power Planning Council’s Framework Process, 2 p.m., 
SD–366. 

Committee on Environment and Public Works: Subcommittee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure, to resume 
hearings on the implementation of the Transportation 
Equity Act for the 21st century, 9:30 a.m., 
SD–406. 

Committee on Finance: to hold oversight hearings to examine 
risk adjustment methodology and other implementation 
issues relating to Medicare+Choice, 10 a.m., 
SD–215. 

Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings on the 
nomination of M. Michael Einik, of Virginia, to be Ambassador 
to The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; 
the nomination of Donald W. Keyser, of Virginia, for 
Rank of Ambassador during tenure of service as Special 
Representative of the Secretary of State for Nagorno-
Karabakh and New Independent States Regional Conflicts; 
the nomination of Joseph Limprecht, of Virginia, 
to be Ambassador to the Republic of Albania; the nomination 
of Richard L. Morningstar, of Massachusetts, to be 
the Representative to the European Union; the nomination 
of Larry C. Napper, of Texas, for Rank of Ambassador 
during tenure of service as Coordinator of the Support 
for East European Democracy (SEED) Program; the 
nomination of Donald Keith Bandler, of Pennsylvania, to 
be Ambassador to the Republic of Cyprus; the nomination 
of Thomas J. Miller, of Virginia, to be Ambassador 
to Bosnia and Herzegovina; and the nomination of Donald 
Lee Pressley, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator 
of the Agency for International Development, 10 
a.m., SD–562. 

Full Committee, to hold hearings on the nomination of 
Gwen C. Clare, of South Carolina, to be Ambassador to 


June 8, 1999 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D631 

the Republic of Ecuador; the nomination of Oliver P. 
Garza, of Texas, to be Ambassador to the Republic of 
Nicaragua; the nomination of Frank Almaguer, of Virginia, 
to be Ambassador to the Republic of Honduras; 
the nomination of John R. Hamilton, of Virginia, to be 
Ambassador to the Republic of Peru; and the nomination 
of Prudence Bushnell, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to 
the Republic of Guatemala, 3 p.m., SD–562. 

Committee on Governmental Affairs: to resume closed 
oversight hearings on the national security methods and 
processes relating to the Wen-Ho Lee espionage investigation, 
10 a.m., S–407, Capitol. 

Committee on Indian Affairs: to hold oversight hearings 
on internet gambling, 9:30 a.m., SR–485. 

Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold hearings on issues 
relating to the Department of Energy reorganization, 2 
p.m., SH–216. 

Committee on Small Business: business meeting to mark 
up S. 918, to authorize the Small Business Administration 
to provide financial and business development assistance 
to military reservists’ small business, 9:30 a.m., 
SR–428A. 

House 

Committee on Agriculture, hearing to review economic 
sanctions and the effect on U.S. agriculture, 10 a.m., 
1300 Longworth. 

Committee on Commerce, Subcommittee on Telecommunications, 
Trade, and Consumer Protection, hearing on 

H.R. 1714, Electronic Signatures in Global and National 
Commerce Act, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn. 
Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee 
on Early Childhood, Youth, and Families, hearing on 
Academic Accountability, 10:30 a.m., 2175 Rayburn. 

Committee on Government Reform, Subcommittee on Census, 
hearing on Oversight of the 2000 Census: Examining 
the Bureau’s Policy to Count Prisoners, Military Personnel, 
and Americans Residing Overseas, 10 a.m., 2247 
Rayburn. 

Subcommittee on Government Management, Information, 
and Technology, hearing on Geographical Information 
Systems Policies and Programs, 1 p.m., 2154 Rayburn. 


Subcommittee on National Security, Veterans Affairs, 
and International Relations, hearing on Outreach to Veterans 
at Risk for Hepatitis C Infection, 10 a.m., 2203 
Rayburn. 

Committee on International Relations, hearing on Assisting 
Russia: What Have We Achieved After Seven Years? 10 
a.m., 2172 Rayburn. 

Subcommittee on International Economic Policy and 
Trade, hearing on Evaluating the International Trade Ad


ministration and the Trade and Development Agency, 

1:30 p.m., 2255 Rayburn. 
Committee on Resources, to consider the following: H.R. 
1524, Public Forests Emergency Act of 1999; H.R. 535, 
to direct the Secretary of the Interior to make corrections 
to a map relating to the Coastal Barrier Resources System; 
H.R. 592, World War II Veterans Park at Great 
Kills; H.R. 791, Star-Spangled Banner National Historic 
Trail Study Act of 1999; H.R. 1167, Tribal Self-Governance 
Amendments of 1999; H.R. 1243, National Marine 
Sanctuaries Enhancement Act of 1999; H.R. 1431, Coastal 
Barrier Resources Reauthorization Act of 1999; H.R. 
1533, Wyandotte Tribe Settlement Act; H.R. 1552, Marine 
Research and Related Environmental Research and 
Development Programs Authorization of 1999; H.R. 
1651, Fishermen’s Protective Act Amendments of 1999; 

H.R. 1652, Yukon River Salmon Act of 1999; H.R. 
1653, to approve a governing international fishery agreement 
between the United States and the Russian Federation; 
and a motion to authorize and issue subpoenas for 
oversight, investigative, and legislative activities in connection 
with (1) payments made by the Project on Government 
Oversight to federal employees or former federal 
employees of the Department of the Interior and the Department 
of Energy, (2) policies and practices of such Departments 
with respect to any outside payments to employees 
of such departments, and (3) other events and 
matters related to the Committee review of these and related 
matters that was initiated on May 25, 1999, 11 
a.m., 1100 Longworth. 
Committee on Science, Subcommittee on Basic Research, 
hearing on the U.S. Antarctic Research Program, 3 p.m., 
2318 Rayburn. 

Committee on Small Business, hearing on Fair and Simple 
Tax Relief for Small Business, reviewing the Small Employer 
Tax Relief Act of 1999 (SETRA), 10 a.m., 2360 
Rayburn. 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Subcommittee 
on Aviation, hearing on preservation and promotion 
of General Aviation Airports, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn. 


Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations, and Emergency 
Management, hearing on Preparedness Against Terrorist 
Attacks, 2 p.m., 2253 Rayburn. 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Health, 
to mark up the Veterans’ Millennium Health Care Act, 
10 a.m., 334 Cannon. 

Committee on Ways and Means, hearing on proposals to 
strengthen Social Security, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth. 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, hearing on 
Encryption legislation, 1 p.m., 2212 Rayburn. 


D632 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST June 8, 1999 

Next Meeting of the SENATE 

9:30 a.m., Wednesday, June 9 
Senate Chamber 

Program for Wednesday: After the recognition of three 
Senators for speeches and the transaction of any morning 
business (not to extend beyond 11 a.m.), Senate will 
begin consideration of S. 96, Y2K Act. 

Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
10 a.m., Wednesday, June 9 

House Chamber 

Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R. 1401, 
Defense Authorization Act (structured rule, one hour of 
general debate). 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

HOUSE McInnis, Scott, Colo., E1162, E1163, E1165, E1167, Skelton, Ike, Mo., E1168 
E1169 Smith, Christopher H., N.J., E1159 
Cunningham, Randy ‘‘Duke’’, Calif., E1161, E1165 Radanovich, George, Calif., E1165, E1169 Stark, Fortney Pete, Calif., E1159, E1162, E1163, E1166 
Eshoo, Anna G., Calif., E1169 Rogan, James E., Calif., E1163, E1165, E1167 Thomas, William M., Calif., E1168 
Gillmor, Paul E., Ohio, E1161, E1162, E1164, E1167 Romero-Barcelo´, Carlos A., Puerto Rico, E1168 Thompson, Mike, Calif., E1170 
Green, Gene, Tex., E1170 Ryan, Paul, Wisc., E1162, E1163, E1164 
Hulshof, Kenny C., Mo., E1168 Sherman, Brad, Calif., E1161, E1163, E1164 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The public proceedings of each House of Congress, as reported by 
the Official Reporters thereof, are printed pursuant to directions 
of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate 
provisions of Title 44, United States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very 
infrequent instances when two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed at one time. ¶ Public access to 
the Congressional Record is available online through GPO Access, a service of the Government Printing Office, free of charge to the user. 
The online database is updated each day the Congressional Record is published. The database includes both text and graphics from the 
beginning of the 103d Congress, 2d session (January 1994) forward. It is available on the Wide Area Information Server (WAIS) through the 
Internet and via asynchronous dial-in. Internet users can access the database by using the World Wide Web; the Superintendent of 
Documents home page address is http://www.access.gpo.gov/suldocs, by using local WAIS client software or by telnet to 
swais.access.gpo.gov, then login as guest (no password required). Dial-in users should use communications software and modem to call (202) 
512–1661; type swais, then login as guest (no password required). For general information about GPO Access, contact the GPO Access User 
Support Team by sending Internet e-mail to gpoaccess@gpo.gov, or a fax to (202) 512–1262; or by calling Toll Free 1–888–293–6498 or (202) 
512–1530 between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. Eastern time, Monday through Friday, except for Federal holidays. ¶ The Congressional Record paper and 
24x microfiche will be furnished by mail to subscribers, free of postage, at the following prices: paper edition, $165.00 for six months, $325.00 
per year, or purchased for $2.75 per issue, payable in advance; microfiche edition, $141.00 per year, or purchased for $1.50 per issue payable in 
advance. The semimonthly Congressional Record Index may be purchased for the same per issue prices. Mail orders to: Superintendent of 
Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250–7954, or phone orders to (202) 512–1800, or fax to (202) 512–2250. Remit check or money order, 
made payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following each session of 
Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents in individual 
parts or by sets. ¶With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from the 
Congressional Record. 


