UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.12.11 21:52:23 -05'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019 No. 191 

House of Representatives 

The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Tuesday, December 3, 2019, at 2 p.m. 

The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was 
called to order by the President pro 
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY). 

f 

PRAYER 
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, offered 
the following prayer: 
Let us pray. 
Eternal God who transforms common 
days into transfiguring and redemptive 
moments, continue to guide our lawmakers 
with Your might. 
Lord, make our Senators brave 
enough for these momentous times as 
they seek to live worthy of Your great 
Name. May they not trust in their wisdom 
or power but rely on You to keep 
them secure. Guide them around life’s 
pitfalls. Bring them through the darkness 
to a haven. 
Lord, cleanse the fountains of their 
hearts from that which defiles so that 
they may be fit vessels to be used for 
Your glory. Let Your peace be within 
them as Your Spirit inspires them to 
glorify Your Holy Name. 
Amen. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
The President pro tempore led the 
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows: 
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
HAWLEY). The Senator from Iowa. 
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent to address the Senate 
for 1 minute as in morning business. 


Senate 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 2, 2019 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA 
TRADE AGREEMENT 

Mr. GRASSLEY. I have come to the 
floor many times to speak with my colleagues 
about the U.S.-Mexico-Canada 
trade agreement. I recently spoke with 
my colleagues in the House of Representatives 
and also officials within 
the administration about the same subject. 
By all accounts, the deal is close 
on the United States-Mexico-Canada 
trade agreement. 

I urge House Democrats to act quickly 
and be reasonable so we can finally 
deliver certainty on this issue to the 
American people. It has now been more 
than a year since the leaders of Canada, 
Mexico, and the United States 
signed the agreement, so Americans 
have waited a year for what can happen 
now. This modernized trade agreement 
will create hundreds of thousands of 
new jobs and help Americans grow 
wages for our workers. 

The end of this year’s legislative session 
is rapidly approaching, as we all 
know. If a deal cannot be reached by 
the end of this week, I do not see how 
the USMCA can be ratified in the year 
we are in. As it is, the window of opportunity 
for 2019 is extremely tight. Now 
is the time for the Democratic-controlled 
House of Representatives to finally 
act so we can act in the Senate. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the leadership time 
is reserved. 

f 

CONCLUSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning 
business is closed. 

f 

EXECUTIVE SESSION 

EXECUTIVE CALENDAR 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate will proceed 
to executive session and resume 
consideration of the following nomination, 
which the clerk will report. 
The legislative clerk read the nomination 
of Dan R. Brouillette, of Texas, 
to be Secretary of Energy. 

SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA 

Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I had a 
wonderful Thanksgiving break, and I 
trust the Presiding Officer did, too. I 
hope all enjoyed time with their families 
and friends last week. 

It was my pleasure to be back home 
in Texas and spend time with some incredible 
people who and some organizations 
that are doing a lot of good in 
their communities. 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S6781 


S6782 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 2, 2019 

For example, I volunteered at the 
Central Texas Food Bank, which has a 
service area that is twice the size of 
Massachusetts. It has been fighting 
hunger for nearly four decades. I joined 
those there to help distribute to low-
income families some of the food they 
had collected as they prepared for 
Thanksgiving, and I had the chance to 
speak with dozens of constituents there 
in the Austin area. 

Then I got in my car and went south 
about 70 miles to San Antonio, which is 
my hometown, where I volunteered 
with the preparations for the 40th annual 
Raul Jimenez Thanksgiving Dinner. 
As I said, this dinner has been 
going on for 40 years, and it serves 
25,000 people each year in the San Antonio 
area who might otherwise go 
hungry. The numbers are immense. I 
spent a little bit of time as a volunteer 
with a number of folks and picked the 
turkeys apart and broke them up into 
small, bite-sized pieces. They told me 
that they served 9,400 pounds of turkey 
during this 40th anniversary dinner. It 
is really one of my favorite events each 
year, and it was made even more special 
since they dedicated this year’s 
dinner to Mary, Raul’s wife, who, 
sadly, passed away earlier this year. 

Then I traveled up to Wichita Falls, 
where I was able to spend a little bit of 
time at Sheppard Air Force Base with 
the families of deployed airmen. I 
think it is very important that we remember, 
particularly during the holidays, 
that having a loved one in the 
military service who is deployed and 
separated from the rest of the family 
involves a lot of sacrifice, not only on 
the part of the servicemember but on 
the ones who are left behind, as that 
hole in your heart feels a little bit bigger 
during the holidays. 

My dad served 31 years in the U.S. 
Air Force. Fortunately, by the time I 
came along, his long-term deployments 
had long been over. Still, every time I 
meet a young family whose loved one is 
deployed overseas while the family 
waits behind, it tugs at my 
heartstrings. So we thank not only 
those who wear the uniform of the U.S. 
military but those family members as 
well, who, I believe, also serve. 

We have an all-volunteer military. 
No one makes you join the military 
anymore in America. We should thank 
all of them for their service in different 
ways. 

It was encouraging to me to meet 
with these patriots and thank them for 
their sacrifices and help to distribute a 
little bit of Thanksgiving love and food 
ahead of the holiday. 

I came back here to Washington refreshed, 
having spent that time with 
constituents and family and friends, 
and I am eager to get back to work. 

We know that the countdown to 
Christmas is on, and we have a long to-
do list before we are through. One of 
our top priorities, strange as it may 
sound, is to actually pass appropriations 
bills to fund the government for 
the remainder of the fiscal year. I be


lieve that the single most important 
function of the Federal Government— 
something that none of us can do individually 
nor the States collectively—is 
to provide for the common defense. The 
way we do that is by funding our military 
and making sure that they have 
the training, the leadership, and the 
materials they need in order to fight 
and win our Nation’s wars or, ideally, 
to not have to fight our Nation’s wars 
because nobody will dare mess with the 

U.S. military. 
That is why it is particularly sad to 
see that we find ourselves balled up in 
this appropriations process this late in 
the year. Over the summer we came to 
a bipartisan, bicameral agreement to 
guide the appropriations process and, 
hopefully, to eliminate this uncertainty 
going into the Christmas season. 
Last August we had an agreement 
that provided a roadmap for negotiations 
this fall, and we all promised to 
work together in good faith and to stay 
away from poison pill policy riders and 
other things that might derail this appropriations 
process. 

Well, obviously things did not work 
the way we had planned. Unfortunately, 
our Democratic colleagues 
went back on their promise because of 
a disagreement over 0.3 percent of the 
federal budget. You heard that correctly—
0.3 percent. A disagreement 
over domestic spending involving 0.3 
percent of the Federal budget derailed 
all of the appropriations process and 
leaves us in our current state of dysfunction. 


So rather than passing appropriations 
bills on time, as we were on track 
to do, we passed two short-term funding 
bills, and we are working day and 
night to avoid needing another one 
when the current continuing resolution 
expires on December 20. I know Chairman 
SHELBY and our colleagues and the 
staff on the appropriations committees 
have been trying to build consensus on 
these funding bills, and I can only hope 
and pray that we can reach an agreement 
soon. 

There are a lot of other things that 
we can and should be doing. We started 
this year off with a government shutdown, 
and we can’t afford to make that 
an annual affair, but this roller coaster 
ride involving short-term spending 
bills puts us in a bad position, particularly 
for our military and other areas 
of government that need certainty and 
need to be able to make plans. 

As our troops are serving around the 
globe to keep us safe, as well as our 
friends and allies abroad, we need to do 
everything in our power here at home 
to give them the stability they need to 
succeed. Our commanders and military 
leaders have repeatedly told us how difficult 
it is to plan for the future without 
a predictable budget, and the constantly 
evolving threat landscape only 
underscores that need. We need to get 
that done. 

In addition to funding the military, 
we need to finish up the National Defense 
Authorization Act and get it to 

the President’s desk. Every year since 
1961, Congress has passed the National 
Defense Authorization Act without 
delay, and now is not the time to get 
bogged down in partisan fights in Congress 
and fail to do what we have done 
each year since 1961. 

Unfortunately, our Democratic colleagues 
in the House are trying to use 
this must-pass piece of legislation to 
leverage some of their liberal wish list. 
The version of this legislation passed 
by the House earlier this year is so partisan 
that it didn’t get a single Republican 
vote—not one. Putting our national 
security on the line in order to 
pander to radical factions in the opposing 
party is absolutely shameful. There 
are some things that should rise above 
politics, rise above partisanship, and 
providing for our military is first on 
that list. 

I appreciate our colleagues on the 
Armed Services Committee, led by 
Chairman INHOFE, who have been fighting 
to get these poison pills out of this 
legislation so we can pass the National 
Defense Authorization Act without any 
additional delay. It is critical that we 
get these bills moving before everyone 
heads home for the holidays. 

There is one other piece of legislation 
I hope we can deliver before we 
leave. Over the last few weeks, I have 
been hearing rumors—which I hope are 
true—that a deal on the USMCA is 
very close. The USMCA, of course, is 
the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement, 
which is the successor to 
NAFTA, the North American Free 
Trade Agreement. 

NAFTA is reported to support, according 
to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, 
about 13 million jobs in America—
8 million with our binational 
trade with Canada and 5 million with 
Mexico. This comes after nearly a year 
of negotiations between the administration 
and Speaker PELOSI and her 
House colleagues to resolve some differences, 
and I am cautiously optimistic 
that we may yet see an agreement 
soon. We have been anxious to 
get the final agreement so the House 
can begin processing it and then send it 
over here so we can begin reviewing it 
in the Senate Finance Committee. 

The experts have told us that this 
agreement would lead to increased 
wealth for the United States and more 
than 176,000 new jobs. So it is time to 
get it ratified, but with the House continuing 
its single-minded obsession to 
impeach the President, I hope this 
trade agreement doesn’t fall victim to 
impeachment mania. 

Whether I am meeting with farmers, 
ranchers, manufacturers, small businesses 
or just average Texans, one of 
the top questions I get at home is this: 
When is the USMCA going to pass? 

I heard last week that it is one of the 
top Federal priorities for the Central 
Texas Food Bank. I would like to be 
able to head home for Christmas in a 
few weeks with some great news for my 
constituents back home. 

With impeachment using up most of 
the oxygen in Washington, I am afraid 


December 2, 2019 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6783 

our ability to get bipartisan work done 
is getting smaller and smaller. If the 
impeachment circus makes its way to 
this side of the Capitol, that ability 
may completely go away. If we stick to 
the timeline of the Clinton impeachment, 
that would mean the articles of 
impeachment would be voted on in late 
December, and then, literally, for the 
first 5 or 6 weeks of 2020, the Senate 
would be required to sit as the jury in 
impeachment proceedings, during 
which time nothing else can be done. 

We need to check these critical items 
off of Congress’s to-do list over the 
next few weeks—the things that we can 
and should get done before the Christmas 
holidays, and I am eager to get to 
work and to do my part. 

Our hope is that our friends on the 
other side of the aisle will join us in 
the same commitment. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. SCHUMER. I ask unanimous consent 
that the order for the quorum call 
be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Democratic leader is recognized. 

CYBER SECURITY 

Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, allow 
me to begin on a topic that doesn’t currently 
concern legislation or nominees 
on the floor but one that does concern 
our national security and the privacy 
of the American people. 

Over the summer, I requested a review 
of the potential risks posed by 
FaceApp, a widely used Russian-based 
mobile application that requires the 
full and irrevocable access of its users’ 
photos and data. Very recently, the 
FBI responded to my request in writing, 
warning that the FBI ‘‘considers 
any mobile application or similar product 
developed in Russia, such as 
FaceApp, to be a potential counterintelligence 
threat, based on the data 
the product collects, its privacy and 
terms-of-use policies, and the legal 
mechanisms available to the Government 
of Russia that permit access to 
data within Russia’s borders.’’ 

Let me repeat this. These are the 
FBI’s words in a letter sent to me just 
in the last few hours; that the FBI 
‘‘considers,’’ their words, ‘‘any mobile 
application or similar product developed 
in Russia, such as FaceApp, to be 
a potential counterintelligence 
threat.’’ 

The letter went on to say that the 
FBI is prepared to address foreign influence 
operations involving FaceApp 
against elected officials, candidates, 
political campaigns, and political parties. 


In light of the FBI’s warning, I 
strongly urge all Americans to consider 
deleting apps like FaceApp immediately 
and proceed with extreme cau


tion when downloading apps from foreign 
countries that are known adversaries. 
The personal data that FaceApp 
collects from a user’s device could end 
up in the hands of Russian intelligence 
services. It is simply not worth the 
risk. 

Americans should be aware of the 
risks posed by certain mobile apps, particularly 
those developed in foreign 
countries that are known adversaries, 
before they download them. The FBI 
didn’t name other countries, but I 
would certainly name not only Russia 
but China, Iran, and there are others. 

Please, Americans, be careful, and let 
us let all of our intelligence agencies 
pursue this potential danger to America 
and ensure that it doesn’t endanger 
our national security. 

DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS 

Mr. President, on to the NDAA. The 
issue of FaceApp is a microcosm of a 
larger problem about cyber security 
and our foreign adversaries. There is no 
doubt that Russia and Vladimir Putin 
continue to meddle in our democracy 
and interfere in our elections. We 
should be doing everything in our 
power to stop it and prevent that from 
happening, from hardening our election 
infrastructure to ensuring that our 
military has the cyber authority needed 
to respond to attacks, to passing 
tough new sanctions to deter any foreign 
power from interfering in our elections. 


So it is incomprehensible to me that 
at the moment, Leader MCCONNELL and 
Senate Republicans are opposing the 
election security measures we wish to 
include in the annual Defense bill. It is 
amazing. There is bipartisan support 
for these, but Leader MCCONNELL is 
once again saying that we are not 
going to do all we can to prevent Russia 
from interfering in our elections. 
That is right—the annual Defense bill, 
which passed the Senate months ago, 
remains in conference, in part, because 
Leader MCCONNELL and Senate Republicans 
refuse to include important election 
security legislation. There is bipartisan 
legislation on this issue—the 
DETER Act and DASKA—that would 
trigger sanctions on any government 
that tried to interfere with American 
elections. 

I don’t care what your party is— 
Democratic, Republican, or any other, 
no good American wants Russia or any 
foreign power to be able to interfere in 
our elections. It is one of the things 
the Founding Fathers were most worried 
about. How can our Republican 
leaders sit blithely by, as the danger is 
real and as a bipartisan group is trying 
to prevent Russia from interfering and 
doing what we can to stop it. He is 
holding up the NDAA bill, in part, because 
of this provision. 

Why the Republican leader and the 
Republican committee chairs are 
blocking this legislation is beyond me. 
Some have said the Trump administration 
is ready to act without these sanctions, 
even though it has failed to implement 
the sanctions targeted at Rus


sia’s Putin that are already on the 
books. Some have expressed concern 
about the sanctions on our allies and 
their partners while they know these 
issues can be addressed. When those arguments 
flail, they hide behind process 
complaints. No objection they have 
holds any water. 

The NDAA, the Defense authorization 
act, might be one of the last 
chances to enact election security legislation 
before the upcoming Presidential 
election next year, including 
Senator VAN HOLLEN’s proposal and 
other targeted sanctions offered by 
Senator MENENDEZ—both of which 
enjoy bipartisan support—is paramount. 
Inexplicably, Leader MCCONNELL 
has yet again refused to allow 
these kinds of measures to go forward, 
refused to allow nearly any election security 
legislation from being considered 
in the Senate at all, and has repeatedly 
downplayed the threat of foreign 
interference in our elections. 

Our country’s top national security 
officials have warned repeatedly that 
our adversaries—North Korea, Iran, 
China, and, of course, Russia—are considering 
or working on new ways to 
meddle in our elections and that we 
have not done enough to prepare ourselves. 
We need now—not later, now— 
to take commonsense steps to protect 
the vital wellspring of our democracy: 
free and fair elections unimpeded by 
outside interference. 

I urge Leader MCCONNELL, I urge 
Senate Republicans to stand down and 
work with Democrats to secure our democracy. 
If there are Republican Senators 
who agree with us and don’t want 
to say anything publicly, please go 
over to Leader MCCONNELL privately 
and urge him to stand down. 

IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY 

Mr. President, on Wednesday, the 
House Judiciary Committee will hold 
its first hearing as a part of the impeachment 
inquiry, during which the 
constitutional history of impeachment 
will be examined and discussed with 
legal scholars. It is another example of 
how the House impeachment inquiry is 
proceeding in a deliberate, studious, 
and sober-minded manner, and it 
stands in stark contrast to some of the 
recent statements by Republicans on 
this side of the Capitol. 

While the House investigation continues 
in search of the facts, certain 
Senate Republicans have made increasingly 
outlandish claims, including the 
assertion that Ukraine might have 
been involved in interfering with the 
2016 election. 

Let me be clear. The charge that 
Ukraine had something to do with election 
meddling in 2016 is a lie spread by 
Vladimir Putin to get things off his 
back. Putin and Russian intelligence 
services invented that lie to muddy the 
waters and distract from the fact that 
Russia, not Ukraine, interfered in our 
elections. 

Now, disgracefully, we have sitting 

U.S. Senators helping spread that Russian 
propaganda in an effort to defend 

S6784 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 2, 2019 

the President. Republicans must stop 
claiming that Ukraine had anything to 
do with election interference in 2016. 
Repeating these claims, even speculating 
about them, is doing Putin’s job 
for him. I urge my Republican colleagues—
they know who they are—to 
stop spreading these lies which hurts 
our democracy. 

APPROPRIATIONS 

Mr. President, finally on appropriations, 
while the Senate was away for 
the Thanksgiving holiday, there was an 
important bit of progress in the appropriations 
process. House and Senate appropriators 
have agreed to the allocations 
to the various committees— 
known as 302(b)s—and are now working 
to finalize the 12 appropriations bills. 

I applaud the appropriators on both 
sides of the aisle and on both sides of 
the Capitol for clearing this major hurdle 
and potentially paving the way to 
finish appropriations by the end of this 
year, 2019. 

Now that we have an agreement on 
allocations in place, Senate Democrats 
want to ensure that the final appropriations 
bills include several of our 
policies and priorities. These are what 
we Senate Democrats want to make 
sure are in these bills: significant resources 
to combat the opioid and gun 
violence epidemics; significant investment 
in infrastructure; significant investment 
in childcare; funding for the 
Violence Against Women Act needs to 
be maintained or, ideally, increased, 
which is a Democratic priority; and 
there must be—must be—funding to secure 
our elections in advance of next 
year’s Presidential election. 

Of course, there is still the impediment 
of President Trump’s insistence 
on funding an expensive and ineffective 
border wall. Senate Democrats strongly 
oppose the President’s stealing 
money from our military families to 
pay for this border wall. We have 
fought for provisions to stop this theft, 
and we will continue to do so. I hope 
my Republican colleagues muster the 
courage to stand with the military 
families in their States whose funds 
have been robbed to build this vanity 
project of President Trump. 

Again, I am very pleased we have an 
agreement on 302(b)s. We must now 
build on that momentum to make sure 
the final appropriations bills help the 
American people as much as possible. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. 
ERNST). The clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

NOMINATION OF DAN R. BROUILLETTE 

Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, here 
is what the Senate and the American 
people need to know before the next 
vote coming up on the nominee to be 
the Secretary of Energy. 

First, Mr. Rick Perry—who until yesterday 
was the Energy Secretary—has 
refused to comply with the subpoena to 
testify about his involvement in the 
Trump-Ukraine scheme. 

Second, Acting Secretary Dan 
Brouillette—nominated to replace Mr. 
Perry—has failed to provide substantive 
answers to key questions 
about Mr. Perry’s dealings with the 
Ukrainian state-owned energy company 
Naftogaz. 

Third, since I have been raising questions 
on this matter, Naftogaz executives 
have reportedly been coming forward 
to cooperate in a Federal investigation 
into the Ukraine scheme. 

Mr. Perry has virtually skipped 
town, leaving his job after insisting for 
months that he was determined to stay 
while the Ukraine scheme is front and 
center in the House impeachment inquiry. 


Now, with the vote on Mr. Perry’s replacement 
just minutes away, the Senate 
is truly in the dark, lacking answers 
to important questions. Those 
questions include issues pertaining to 
Mr. Perry’s role in a campaign to 
change the leadership of Naftogaz; 
questions about what Mr. Perry, his 
donors, and certain crooked associates 
of Rudy Giuliani’s stood to gain from 
those changes; questions about Mr. 
Perry’s role in the Ukraine scheme, 
which Trump administration officials 
have admitted was about withholding 
critical military aid in a face-to-face 
meeting until the Ukrainian President 
agreed to do for Donald Trump what he 
described as a political favor. 

These are serious issues closely tied 
to ongoing investigations. This goes 
way, way beyond the well-documented 
waste we often see in the Trump Cabinet—
private jets, soundproof booths, 
$30,000 desks; this is about the administration 
using its full might to push a 
foreign leader into helping Donald 
Trump’s reelection campaign. The Senate 
ought to know about Rick Perry’s 
involvement, especially since he was 
described by Mr. Holmes and others as 
one of the ‘‘three amigos’’ who were 
right in the center of all this. 

What exactly is the rush on confirming 
his replacement? This isn’t the 
first week of a new administration. 
Nothing is going to happen to the powerplants 
or nuclear facilities if the 
Senate takes the time to get answers 
to these central questions. Dan 
Brouillette is already the Acting Secretary. 
No American interest suffers if 
the Senate insists on getting answers 
that go right to the heart of the Senate’s 
oversight responsibilities. 

I briefly want to recall what this is 
all about. 

The ‘‘three amigos’’ basically seized 
control of our country’s ties with 
Ukraine under the direction of the 
President and his personal lawyer, 
Rudy Giuliani. Secretary Perry led the 
American delegation that attended 
President Zelensky’s inauguration in 
May after the Vice President was told 
to stay home. The Vice President and 

President Zelensky held private meetings. 


It has been reported that Perry 
pushed President Zelensky to fire 
members of the board of Naftogaz and 
replace them with Mr. Perry’s own political 
donors. At a subsequent meeting 
with the Ukraine Government and energy 
sector officials, Perry reportedly 
said that the entire board ought to be 
replaced. 

The Associated Press reported that 
at that meeting—and I am going to 
quote here—the Associated Press said 
that one of those people who attended 
that meeting where Perry was in attendance 
‘‘said he was floored by the 
American requests because the person 
had always viewed the U.S. government 
‘as having a higher ethical standard.’’’ 


The changes Mr. Perry was seeking 
lined up with changes sought by a pair 
of now-indicted men, Lev Parnas and 
Igor Fruman, who were apparently 
friends of Mr. Giuliani’s. They, too, 
wanted different leadership at 
Naftogaz. Here is what the Associated 
Press had to say about that: 

As Rudy Giuliani was pushing Ukraine officials 
last spring to investigate Donald 
Trump’s main political rivals, a group of individuals 
with ties to the president and his 
personal lawyer were also active in the 
former Soviet republic. Their aims were 
profit, not politics. This circle of businessmen 
and Republican donors touted connections 
to Mr. Giuliani and Trump while trying 
to install new management at the top of 
Ukraine’s massive state-owned gas company. 
Their plan was to then steer lucrative contracts 
to companies controlled by Trump allies, 
according to two people with knowledge 
of their plans. 

Federal prosecutors are investigating 
the role of Mr. Giuliani. At least one 
Naftogaz official is reportedly cooperating 
in the investigation. 

Some of Mr. Perry’s political donors 
did score a lucrative energy deal in 
Ukraine after Perry got involved there. 
Perry admits he was in contact with 
Giuliani about Ukraine. 

It was also revealed in impeachment 
testimony that Perry was seemingly 
made aware in July of the Trump 
scheme and Ukraine. 

Unlike Fiona Hill, unlike David 
Holmes, unlike Lieutenant Colonel 
Vindman, Rick Perry has refused to 
testify and share what he knows with 
the public. 

For nearly 3 weeks, I have been trying 
to get answers. At Mr. Brouillette’s 
nomination hearing on November 14, I 
asked him really basic questions. I had 
plenty of time—to a great extent, courtesy 
of my good friend the ranking minority 
member, who is always fair. I 
had plenty of time. I asked basic questions. 
It came down to this: 

Who did Secretary Perry meet with 
regarding Ukraine and Naftogaz? He 
was the head of a powerful department. 
He was one of the self-styled ‘‘three 
amigos.’’ Who else was in the loop? 
What did they talk about? 

Acting Secretary Brouillette only acknowledged—
he wasn’t willing to say 


December 2, 2019 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6785 

anything. This was a full court stonewall. 
He wasn’t willing to say anything 
other than that there were meetings— 
no other information and nothing substantive 
on the questions I asked. So I 
just kept asking him. 

Who took part in the meetings with 
Secretary Perry on Naftogaz? When 
and where did they take place? What 
materials were produced? I don’t think 
Secretary Perry just went to those 
meetings all by his lonesome with 
maybe a bag lunch or something like 
that. My guess is that he had staff from 
the Department of Energy with materials 
produced by the Department of 
Energy. 

Who outside of the Department did 
Secretary Perry speak with regarding 
changes in Naftogaz, and what was the 
substance of those communications? It 
is not like Secretary Perry would have 
paid his own way and freelanced a 
‘‘three amigos’’-Ukraine policy in secret. 
This is the head of the Energy Department. 
It looks like he was right in 
the center of the Trump corruption 
scheme in Ukraine. 

I am just going to close in this way. 
I don’t understand the rush. Mr. 
Brouillette is at the Department of Energy 
now. He is the acting chief. Western 
civilization is not going to end if 
the Senate insists on getting some answers 
to the questions that I have presented 
this afternoon. We are still 
going to have our powerplants and nuclear 
facilities running, and all of the 
national security activities that go on 
at the Department of Energy will still 
go forward if the Senate takes the time 
to require that there be substantive answers 
to the questions that I have 
asked of this nominee. 

I believe it is malpractice for the 

U.S. Senate to rush this debate before 
getting answers from this administration, 
Mr. Brouillette, Secretary Perry, 
and those who, I believe, could answer 
these questions if they didn’t want to, 
in effect, say to the U.S. Senate: We 
are just going to pass here. You might 
want to hold us accountable, but we 
have a chance to just skip out, and we 
are going to take it. 
This is not the way the Senate is supposed 
to work. That is why I cannot 
support moving forward with this 
nominee, and I will be voting no this 
afternoon. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, 
within a few minutes, we will be voting 
on the President’s nomination for the 
new U.S. Secretary of Energy, Dan 
Brouillette. I am here to offer my support 
for Mr. Brouillette, and I hope my 
colleagues will vote for him. I am con


fident that, with his leadership, we will 
continue to build on the progress we 
have made under Secretary Rick Perry. 

Secretary Perry has been a very effective 
Secretary of Energy during his 
time here. He has used his executive 
and political skills, which are considerable 
in his having been the Governor of 
Texas longer than anybody and in his 
having been involved in politics for a 
while, to take charge of this very important 
Department and lead it in a 
very strong way. 

For example, one of the best kept secrets 
in Washington, DC, is that over 
the last 5 years, we have had a record 
level of funding for supercomputing, 
which has allowed the United States to 
be the first in the world in competition 
with China and Japan and other countries. 
We have had significant increases 
in funding for National Laboratories— 
a 42-percent increase over 5 years. That 
is record funding. Secretary Perry has 
also helped to save taxpayers’ dollars 
by having made sure the huge construction 
projects we have in some of 
the Department of Energy’s facilities 
have been brought under control. So 
Mr. Brouillette, should he be confirmed 
by the Senate tonight, will be following 
a very distinguished Secretary 
in Rick Perry. 

I look forward to working with Mr. 
Brouillette. I and Senator FEINSTEIN, 
of California, are the chairman and 
ranking member of the Subcommittee 
on Energy and Water Development. We 
have worked very well together over 
the last, nearly, 10 years in supporting 
the Department both under the Obama 
administration and under the Trump 
administration. We have worked in a 
bipartisan way and have had strong 
support from our colleagues, which has 
been made possible by excellent Secretaries 
of Energy. I believe Mr. 
Brouillette will be yet another one of 
them. 

He knows the Department well, as he 
has been the Deputy Secretary since 
2017. In my conversations with laboratory 
directors and others across the 
country, they feel like he knows them 
well. I know that this is true in Tennessee. 
For example, at the Oak Ridge 
National Laboratory, which is our largest 
science and energy laboratory, Mr. 
Brouillette has been crucial in the 
building of the world’s fastest supercomputer, 
Frontier, which is housed in 
Oak Ridge. As Senator FEINSTEIN and I 
have insisted, he has also been crucial 
in making sure that we stay on time 
and on budget in the building of a huge 
uranium processing facility at Oak 
Ridge, which has been the largest Federal 
construction project in our State 
since World War II, when the Manhattan 
Project was created there. 

Mr. Brouillette has visited the Oak 
Ridge National Laboratory. He understands 
the important work being done 
there, both at the laboratory and at 
the Y–12 uranium facility. He understands 
the importance of the environmental 
cleanup being done there and at 
Hanford in Washington State and other 
places. 

In short, I think we are very fortunate 
to have someone of his caliber and 
his experience nominated to head one 
of our most important Departments— 
the Department of Energy. 

I look forward as chairman of his appropriations 
subcommittee, should he 
be confirmed, to working with him during 
this appropriations process, which 
we hope is about complete, and during 
the next one, which will be coming up 
soon. 

I am here simply to say that I support 
Mr. Brouillette. I am glad the 
President nominated him. I hope he 
gets a big vote in a few minutes. I look 
forward to working with him. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from West Virginia. 

Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I rise 
today to speak about our nominee and 
the vote for Secretary of Energy. 

Mr. Brouillette came before the Senate 
Energy and Natural Resources 
Committee 2 weeks ago. I found him to 
be up to this enormous task. He is a 
good man, and he has the credentials. 
He came out of our committee 16 to 4, 
and that is pretty impressive in today’s 
toxic world that we live in, sorry to 
say. 

He has a long history with energy 
issues and with the Department of Energy, 
so he is no stranger to this agency 
or to the workings of this agency. 
He has served as the staff director of 
the House Energy and Commerce Committee, 
so he understands the proceedings 
of this body and of the House. 
At the Department of Energy, he 
served as an Assistant Secretary of Energy 
during the Bush administration 
and, of course, as the Deputy Secretary 
for the past 2 years under Secretary 
Perry. He knows the Department; he 
knows Congress; and he knows the energy 
issues facing our Nation. 

He has also demonstrated his managerial 
skills. He has been vice president 
of Ford Motor Company, and he has 
been a senior vice president of USAA, 
which I think we all know is the large 
insurance and financial services giant 
that serves the members of our military 
and their families. 

This Senate has confirmed him twice 
before, and we have gone indepth in 
looking into him, and he has been 
forthcoming. He has not held anything 
back. I asked him every question I possibly 
could. I know some of my dear 
colleagues on my side of the aisle have 
some concerns on some questions they 
want answered. I did get into those 
with him. He assured me that his answers 
were accurate and correct, and I 
found them to be very substantial. 

I basically come before you to say 
that we have a gentleman who I think 
is well qualified. He is ready for the 
job; he is up to the job; and he understands 
the job. That is what we should 
be looking at. 

So if we could put politics aside— 
truly put politics aside—and look at 
the qualifications of a person who is 
willing to serve and his family, who is 


S6786 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 2, 2019 

behind him 100 percent, wanting him to 
give that service—he and his wife are 
both former military people. 

I found him to be quite charming, 
quite delightful to work with and talk 
to but, more than that, most professional 
in his approach and how he has 
handled himself and in the way we 
have worked with him in our committee. 
Being the ranking member on 
the Energy and Natural Resources 
Committee, I have worked with him, 
and we have worked with him throughout 
the last 2 years. He has been very 
forthcoming and good to work with. 

I urge all of my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to please consider voting 
for this gentleman because I think 
he is really the right person at the 
right time for this job. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Tennessee. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent to start the 
vote at this time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Under the previous order, all 
postcloture time is expired. 

The question is, Will the Senate advise 
and consent to the Brouillette 
nomination? 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I 
ask for the yeas and nays. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There is a sufficient second. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk called the roll. 

Mr. THUNE. The following Senators 
are necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT), the Senator 
from South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM), the 
Senator from Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN), the 
Senator from South Dakota (Mr. 
ROUNDS), the Senator from South Carolina 
(Mr. SCOTT), and the Senator from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. TOOMEY). 

Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the 
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET), 
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. 
BOOKER), the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from 
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator 
from Alabama (Mr. JONES), the Senator 
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the 
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), 
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
WARREN), and the Senator from Rhode 
Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) are necessarily 
absent. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there 
any other Senators in the Chamber desiring 
to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 70, 
nays 15, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 367 Ex.] 

YEAS—70 
Alexander Casey Duckworth 
Barrasso Cassidy Durbin 
Blackburn Collins Enzi 
Boozman Coons Ernst 
Braun Cornyn Feinstein 
Burr Cotton Fischer 
Cantwell Cramer Gardner 
Capito Crapo Grassley 
Cardin Cruz Hassan 
Carper Daines Hawley 

Heinrich Moran Shelby 
Hoeven Murkowski Sinema 
Hyde-Smith Murphy Smith 
Inhofe Murray Stabenow 
Isakson Paul 

Sullivan 
Johnson Perdue 

Tester 

Kaine Peters 

Thune 

Kennedy Risch 

Tillis

King Roberts 

Udall

Lankford Romney 

Warner

Lee Rubio 

Wicker

Manchin Sasse 

Young

McConnell Scott (FL) 
McSally Shaheen 

NAYS—15 

Baldwin Leahy Rosen 
Blumenthal Markey Schatz 
Brown Menendez Schumer 
Cortez Masto Merkley Van Hollen 
Hirono Reed Wyden 

NOT VOTING—15 

Bennet Harris Sanders 
Blunt Jones Scott (SC) 
Booker Klobuchar Toomey 
Gillibrand Portman Warren 
Graham Rounds Whitehouse 

The nomination was confirmed. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the motion to reconsider 
is considered made and laid 
upon the table, and the President will 
be notified of the Senate’s action. 

f 

CLOTURE MOTION 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant 
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the 
Senate the pending cloture motion, 
which the clerk will state. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 
CLOTURE MOTION 
We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance 
with the provisions of rule XXII of the 
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby 
move to bring to a close debate on the nomination 
of Eric Ross Komitee, of New York, to 
be United States District Judge for the Eastern 
District of New York. 
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John 
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike 
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, 
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer, 
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sullivan, 
Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr, 
John Thune, Roy Blunt. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unanimous 
consent, the mandatory quorum 
call has been waived. 

The question is, Is it the sense of the 
Senate that debate on the nomination 
of Eric Ross Komitee, of New York, to 
be United States District Judge for the 
Eastern District of New York, shall be 
brought to a close? 

The yeas and nays are mandatory 
under the rule. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk called the roll. 

Mr. THUNE. The following Senators 
are necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT), the Senator 
from Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN), the Senator 
from South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS), the 
Senator from South Carolina (Mr. 
SCOTT), and the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. TOOMEY). 

Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the 
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET), 
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr. 
BOOKER), the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from 
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator 

from Alabama (Mr. JONES), the Senator 
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the 
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), 
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. 
WARREN), the Senator from Rhode Island 
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE), are necessarily 
absent. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SULLIVAN). 
Are there any other Senators in 
the Chamber desiring to vote? 

The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 81, 
nays 5, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 368 Ex.] 

YEAS—81 

Alexander Feinstein Perdue 
Baldwin Fischer Peters 
Barrasso Gardner Reed 
Blackburn Graham Risch 
Blumenthal Grassley Roberts 
Boozman Hassan Romney 
Braun Hawley Rosen 
Brown Hoeven Rubio 
Burr Hyde-Smith Sasse 
Capito Inhofe Schatz 
Cardin Isakson Schumer 
Carper Johnson Scott (FL) 
Casey Kaine Shaheen 
Cassidy Kennedy Shelby 
Collins King Sinema 
Coons Lankford Smith 
Cornyn Leahy Stabenow 
Cortez Masto Lee Sullivan 
Cotton Manchin Tester 
Cramer McConnell Thune 
Crapo McSally Tillis 
Cruz Menendez Udall 
Daines Merkley Van Hollen 
Duckworth Moran Warner 
Durbin Murkowski Wicker 
Enzi Murphy Wyden 
Ernst Paul Young 

NAYS—5 

Cantwell Hirono Murray 
Heinrich Markey 

NOT VOTING—14 

Bennet Jones Scott (SC) 
Blunt Klobuchar Toomey 
Booker Portman Warren 
Gillibrand Rounds 

Whitehouse 
Harris Sanders 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this 
vote, the yeas are 81, the nays are 5. 

The motion is agreed to. 

f 

EXECUTIVE CALENDAR 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the nomination. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
read the nomination of Eric Ross 
Komitee, of New York, to be United 
States District Judge for the Eastern 
District of New York. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arkansas. 

ORDER OF BUSINESS 

Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that notwithstanding 
the provisions of rule XXII, 
the time postcloture on Executive Calendar 
No. 347 expire at 11:45 a.m. on 
Tuesday, December 3; further, that if 
confirmed, the motion to reconsider be 
considered made and laid upon the 
table and the President be immediately 
notified of the Senate’s action. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Without objection, it is so ordered. 


December 2, 2019 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6787 

LEGISLATIVE SESSION 

MORNING BUSINESS 

Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to legislative session and be in 
a period of morning business, with Senators 
permitted to speak therein for up 
to 10 minutes each. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO JAY GRASSLEY 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, on 
the Saturday before Thanksgiving, my 
wife Barbara and I traveled to Carroll, 
IA, for the induction of our youngest 
son, Jay Grassley, to the Iowa Girls 
Coaches’ Association Hall of Fame. Jay 
earned this honor through his work 
over the last 29 years as a volleyball official. 
Jay has officiated the most Iowa 
high school volleyball finals in history 
with 14 games. With one exception, Jay 
has officiated at every Iowa State 
volleyball tournament since 1995. This 
outstanding record demonstrates Jay’s 
dedication to his work as an official. 

In addition to his officiating, Jay has 
been a coach and mentor to volleyball 
players for more than 30 years. His interest 
in volleyball started when he 
was a student at the University of 
Northern Iowa. Jay started the Six 
Pack Volleyball Club in 1990, and after 
years of building a strong reputation, 
his team earned the USA Volleyball 18s 
Division National Championship title 
in 2011. 

As I travel across Iowa for my annual 
99 county meetings, I often run into 
Iowans whose relationship with Jay 
has had a lasting impact. They commonly 
ask that I tell Jay ‘‘hi’’ and follow 
with a story of how he was a mentor 
and coach to them or one of their 
children. As a father, those are heartwarming 
sentiments for me to hear. 
Jay’s kind nature and motivational 
spirit help him to connect with people 
of all ages and make his influence all 
the more worthwhile. At the hall of 
fame induction, Jay’s fellow coaches 
and officials described him as ‘‘one of, 
if not the best, official(s) out there.’’ 

Barbara and I are very proud of Jay 
being named to the Iowa Girls Coaches’ 
Association Hall of Fame. 

f 

ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION 

Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section 
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act 
requires that Congress receive prior notification 
of certain proposed arms 
sales as defined by that statute. Upon 
such notification, the Congress has 30 
calendar days during which the sale 
may be reviewed. The provision stipulates 
that, in the Senate, the notification 
of proposed sales shall be sent to 
the chairman of the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee. 

In keeping with the committee’s intention 
to see that relevant informa


tion is available to the full Senate, I 
ask unanimous consent to have printed 
in the RECORD the notifications which 
have been received. If the cover letter 
references a classified annex, then such 
annex is available to all Senators in 
the office of the Foreign Relations 
Committee, room SD–423. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

DEFENSE SECURITY 
COOPERATION AGENCY, 

Arlington, VA. 

Hon. JAMES E. RISCH, 

Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations, 

U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the reporting 
requirements of Section 36(b)(5)(C) of 
the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), as 
amended, we are forwarding Transmittal No. 
19–0P. This notification relates to enhancements 
or upgrades from the level of sensitivity 
of technology or capability described 
in the Section 36(b)(1) AECA certification 13– 
40 of July 9, 2013. 

Sincerely, 

GREGORY M. KAUSNER, 

(For Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant 

General, USA, Director). 

Enclosures. 

TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–0P 
Report of Enhancement or Upgrade of Sensi


tivity of Techonology or Capability (Sec 

36(b)(5)(C), AECA) 

(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of 
France. 
(ii) Sec 36(b)(1), AECA Transmittal No.: 13– 
40; Date: July 9, 2013; Military Department: 
Air Force. 
(iii) Description: On July 9, 2013, Congress 
was notified by Congressional certification 
transmittal number 13–40 of the possible sale 
under Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export 
Control Act of 16 MQ–9 Reaper Remotely Piloted 
Aircraft; 8 Mobile Ground Control Stations; 
48 Honeywell TPE331–10T Turboprop 
Engines (16 installed and 32 Spares); 24 Satellite 
Earth Terminal Substations; 40 Ku 
Band Link-Airborne Communication Systems; 
40 General Atomics Lynx (exportable) 
Synthetic Aperture Radar/Ground Moving 
Target Indicator (SAR/GMTI) Systems; 40 
AN/DAS–1 Multi-Spectral Targeting System 
(MTS)–B; 40 Ground Data Terminals; 40 
ARC–210 Radio Systems; 40 Embedded Global 
Positioning System/Inertial Navigation Systems; 
and 48 AN/APX–119 and KIV–119 Identify 
Friend or Foe (IFF) Systems. Also provided 
are spare and repair parts, communication, 
test, and support equipment, publications 
and technical documentation, airworthiness 
and maintenance support, site 
surveys and bed down planning, personnel 
training and training equipment, operational 
flight test, U.S. Government and contractor 
technical and logistics personnel services, 
and other related elements of logistics support. 
The estimated total cost was $ 1.5 billion. 
Major Defense Equipment (MOE) constituted 
$765 million of this total. 
On July 26, 2018, Congress was notified by 
Congressional certification transmittal number 
18–0B of the retrofit of MQ–9s to become 
weapons capable, and the inclusion of 100 
GBU–49 Enhanced Paveway dual mode GPS 
and laser guided bomb kits comprised of 
MXU–650 Air Foil Group (AFG) and MAU–210 
Enhanced Computer Control Group (ECCG); 
200 FMU–152 fuzes; 650 AGM–114R Hellfire 
missiles, with active warheads; 45 AGM–114R 
Hellfire training missiles, without active 
warhead; and 6 Hellfire Captive Air Training 
Missiles. The retrofit and inclusion of MDE 
not enumerated in the original notification 

resulted in an increase in the cost of MDE by 
$210 million. The new MDE cost was $975 million. 
The total case value increased to $1.71 
billion. 

This transmittal reports the: 

1) retrofit of four (4) MQ–9A Block 1 to MQ– 
9A Block 5; 
2) addition of four (4) MQ–9A Block 5; and 
3) addition of fourteen (14) Embedded GPS/ 
INS (EGI) with GPS Security Devices. 
The MDE cost of these items is $80 million, 
resulting in a new MDE cost of $1.055 billion. 
The total case value will remain $1.71 billion. 

(iv) Significance: This notification is being 
provided as the retrofit of the MQ–9A systems 
and the inclusion of MDE items not 
originally notified represent an increase in 
capability over what was originally notified. 
This equipment will provide France’s MQ–9 
program with the equipment necessary to 
support the capability requested. 
(v) Justification: This proposed sale will 
support the foreign policy and national security 
of the United States by helping to improve 
the security of a NATO ally which continues 
to be an important force for political 
stability and economic progress in Western 
Europe. 
(vi) Sensitivity of Technology: The MQ–9A 
is a long-endurance, medium altitude Remotely 
Piloted Aircraft (RPA) that can be 
used for surveillance, military reconnaissance, 
and targeting missions. MQ–9A is capable 
of performing real-time flown under 
the control of a pilot in a Ground Control 
Station (GCS). A data link is maintained 
that uplink commands and downlink video 
with telemetry data. The data link can be a 
Line-of-Sight (LOS) CB and communication 
or Beyond Line-of-Sight (BLOS) Ku-Band 
Satellite Communication (SATCOM). Aircraft 
can be handed off to other strategically 
placed ground control stations. The MQ–9A 
is designed to carry 800 pounds of internal 
payload with maximum fuel and can carry 
multiple mission payload aloft such as kinetics, 
Electro-Optical/Infrared (EO/IR), Synthetic 
Aperture Radar (SAR), and other laser 
target designators. Block 5 includes a redesigned 
forward avionics bay, NSA Type 1 
encrypted data links, enhanced power, dual 
wing-tip ARC–210 radios, payload control 
computer, enhanced HMI and payload control 
in GCS. 
(vii) Date Report Delivered to Congress: 
November 22, 2019. 
f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

TRIBUTE TO MICHAEL T. 

CARRIGAN 
S Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, I 
rise today to honor the outstanding career 
of Michael T. Carrigan. Mr. 
Carrigan is retiring as president of the 
Illinois AFL–CIO following a long and 
distinguished career in public service. 

After growing up in Bradley, IL, Mr. 
Carrigan graduated from MacMurray 
College in Jacksonville. He then completed 
a 4-year apprenticeship program 
and became a wireman before serving 
as business manager and financial secretary 
for International Brotherhood of 
Electrical Workers Local 146. 

In 1995, Mr. Carrigan was elected to 
the Decatur City Council. He was appointed 
mayor of Decatur in 2008 to 
complete the term of another, retiring 
mayor. In 2010, he became president of 
the Illinois AFL–CIO, where he has 
spent the last 20 years advocating for 
workers and families across my State. 


S6788 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 2, 2019 

Among the many victories Mr. 
Carrigan has secured for working families, 
he recently helped successfully 
push for a minimum wage increase in 
Illinois and a $45 billion State infrastructure 
package. He has been lauded 
for his ‘‘steady hand’’ and leadership 
and will no doubt be missed by his 
membership and everyone in Illinois 
that supports the rights of working 
people. 

I thank Mr. Carrigan for his service 
to the State of Illinois, and I wish him 
all the best in retirement.S 

f 

RECOGNIZING R & H MACHINE, 

INC. 
S Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, as a member 
and former chairman of the Senate 
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, 
each month I recognize 
and celebrate the American entrepreneurial 
spirit by highlighting the success 
of a small business in my home 
State of Idaho. Today I am pleased to 
honor R & H Machine, Inc., located in 
Caldwell, as the Idaho Small Business 
of the Month for December 2019. 

R & H Machine’s story began on a 
wheat farm in Washington State in the 
1950s. In an effort to supplement their 
income, wheat farmers Ray and Arline 
Stueckle began welding and selling replacement 
farm equipment made of 
chrome alloy, a durable material that 
greatly expanded the lifecycle of farm 
equipment. After several decades of 
growth, the family business moved its 
operations to Caldwell in 1978 to better 
serve its clientele across the Pacific 
Northwest. 

Today, R & H Machine is owned and 
operated by the Stueckles’ daughter 
and son-in-law, Kathy and Dave Organ. 
The business manufactures and sells a 
product line of about 1,500 parts made 
from chrome alloy and distributes 
thousands of farm tools across the U.S. 
R & H Machine equipment is estimated 
to last about 15 years longer than the 
life of standard equipment and three to 
five times longer than the life of hard-
faced equipment. Dave Organ is constantly 
designing and developing new 
parts at the request of his customers. 
The Organ family prides itself on upholding 
the founder’s commitment to 
providing the farmer the best deal possible 
and a superior product. 

Congratulations to Dave and Kathy 
Organ and all of the employees at R & 
H Machine, Inc., for being selected as 
the Idaho Small Business of the Month 
for December 2019. You make our great 
State proud, and I look forward to your 
continued growth and success.S 

f 

MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 
Messages from the President of the 
United States were communicated to 
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his 
secretaries. 

f 

EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED 
In executive session the Presiding Officer 
laid before the Senate messages 

from the President of the United 
States submitting sundry nominations 
and a withdrawal which were referred 
to the appropriate committees. 

(The messages received today are 
printed at the end of the Senate 
proceedings.) 

f 

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
and were referred as indicated: 

EC–3310. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Clothianidin; Pesticide Tolerances’’ 
(FRL No. 10000–64) received during adjournment 
of the Senate in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 22, 2019; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–3311. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Cyflumetofen; Pesticide Tolerances’’ 
(FRL No. 9996–61) received during adjournment 
of the Senate in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 22, 2019; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–3312. A communication from the Alternate 
Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office 
of the Secretary, Department of Defense, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘DFAS Privacy Act Program’’ 
(RIN0790–AK70) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
21, 2019; to the Committee on Armed Services. 


EC–3313. A communication from the President 
of the United States, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to the continuation 
of the national emergency that 
was originally declared in Executive Order 
13851 of November 27, 2018, with respect to 
Nicaragua; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3314. A communication from the President 
of the United States to the President 
Pro Tempore of the United States Senate, 
transmitting, consistent with the War Powers 
Act, a report relative to the deployment 
of U.S. forces to the Middle East to protect 
United States interests and enhance force 
protection in the region against hostile action 
by Iran and its proxy forces; to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations. 

f 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES 
The following reports of committees 
were submitted: 
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation, 
without amendment: 

S. 1349. A bill to expand enrollment in TSA 
PreCheck to expedite commercial travel 
screening and improve airport security 
(Rept. No. 116–163). 
f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Ms. MCSALLY: 

S. 2959. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social 
Security Act to modify the reductions in 
Medicaid DSH allotments; to the Committee 
on Finance. 
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr. 
JONES): 

S. 2960. A bill to require individuals fishing 
for Gulf reef fish to use certain descending 
devices, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. BENNET, 
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. MARKEY, 
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. 
MANCHIN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. BROWN, 
Mr. BOOKER, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. 
HASSAN, Mr. HEINRICH, Mrs. MURRAY, 
Mr. SANDERS, and Mr. MURPHY): 

S. 2961. A bill to establish duties for online 
service providers with respect to end user 
data that such providers collect and use; to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation. 
By Mr. PAUL: 

S. 2962. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to permit withdrawals from 
certain retirement plans for repayment of 
student loan debt, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Finance. 
f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 
S. 133 
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the 
names of the Senator from Wyoming 
(Mr. BARRASSO), the Senator from 
South Carolina (Mr. SCOTT), the Senator 
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN), 
the Senator from Montana (Mr. 
DAINES) and the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were added 
as cosponsors of S. 133, a bill to award 
a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, 
to the United States merchant 
mariners of World War II, in recognition 
of their dedicated and vital service 
during World War II. 
S. 227 
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the 
name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Ms. WARREN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 227, a bill to direct the 
Attorney General to review, revise, and 
develop law enforcement and justice 
protocols appropriate to address missing 
and murdered Indians, and for 
other purposes. 
S. 277 
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the 
name of the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 277, a bill to posthumously award 
a Congressional Gold Medal to Fred 
Korematsu, in recognition of his dedication 
to justice and equality. 
S. 359 
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 359, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude 
from gross income certain Federally-
subsidized loan repayments for 
dental school faculty. 
S. 521 
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
521, a bill to amend title II of the Social 
Security Act to repeal the Government 
pension offset and windfall elimination 
provisions. 
S. 866 
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN, 
the name of the Senator from Illinois 


December 2, 2019 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6789 

(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 866, a bill to amend part B of the 
Individuals with Disabilities Education 
Act to provide full Federal funding of 
such part. 

S. 879 

At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN, 
the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 879, a bill to provide a process for 
granting lawful permanent resident 
status to aliens from certain countries 
who meet specified eligibility requirements, 
and for other purposes. 

S. 964 

At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the 
name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 964, a bill to amend the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act to 
improve cost-sharing subsidies. 

S. 1088 

At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the 
name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Ms. WARREN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1088, a bill to amend the 
Immigration and Nationality Act to require 
the President to set a minimum 
annual goal for the number of refugees 
to be admitted, and for other purposes. 

S. 1163 

At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the 
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms. 
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1163, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an 
exclusion for assistance provided to 
participants in certain veterinary student 
loan repayment or forgiveness 
programs. 

S. 1172 

At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN, 
the name of the Senator from Illinois 
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1172, a bill to require full funding 
of part A of title I of the Elementary 
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
and the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act. 

S. 1363 

At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the 
name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1363, a bill to authorize an AI Center 
of Excellence within the General 
Services Administration, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 1654 

At the request of Mr. CASEY, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1654, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide 
authority to add additional vaccines 
to the list of taxable vaccines. 

S. 1757 

At the request of Ms. ERNST, the 
name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1757, a bill to award a Congressional 
Gold Medal, collectively, to the 
United States Army Rangers Veterans 
of World War II in recognition of their 

extraordinary service during World 
War II. 
S. 1832 

At the request of Mr. UDALL, the 
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 

ROSEN) and the Senator from West Virginia 
(Mrs. CAPITO) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1832, a bill to protect and 
educate children about the dangers of 
e-cigarettes and other electronic nicotine 
delivery systems, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 1970 

At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the 
name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1970, a bill to secure the 
rights of public employees to organize, 
act concertedly, and bargain collectively, 
which safeguard the public interest 
and promote the free and unobstructed 
flow of commerce, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 2026 

At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from Connecticut 
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2026, a bill to amend the 
Richard B. Russell National School 
Lunch Act to reauthorize the farm to 
school program, and for other purposes. 

S. 2063 

At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the 
name of the Senator from Mississippi 
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2063, a bill to amend title 
XI of the Social Security Act with respect 
to organ procurement organizations. 


S. 2289 

At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, 
the name of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2289, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an 
extension of the energy credit and the 
credit for residential energy efficient 
property. 

S. 2417 

At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr. 
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2417, a bill to provide for payment of 
proceeds from savings bonds to a State 
with title to such bonds pursuant to 
the judgment of a court. 

S. 2541 

At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the 
name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2541, a bill to amend the 
Indian Health Care Improvement Act 
to authorize advance appropriations for 
the Indian Health Service by providing 
2-fiscal-year budget authority, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 2570 

At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the 
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms. 
CORTEZ MASTO), the Senator from Illinois 
(Ms. DUCKWORTH), the Senator 
from Delaware (Mr. COONS), the Senator 
from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO) and the 
Senator from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER) 
were added as cosponsors of S. 2570, a 
bill to award a Congressional Gold 
Medal to Greg LeMond in recognition 
of his service to the United States as 
an athlete, activist, role model, and 
community leader. 

S. 2677 
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the 
name of the Senator from Delaware 

(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2677, a bill to amend the Older 
Americans Act of 1965 to address social 
isolation and loneliness, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 2741 

At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the 
names of the Senator from New Mexico 
(Mr. HEINRICH), the Senator from Kentucky 
(Mr. PAUL), the Senator from 
Colorado (Mr. BENNET) and the Senator 
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2741, a bill to 
amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
Act to expand access to telehealth 
services, and for other purposes. 

S. 2745 

At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the 
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2745, a bill to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to prohibit discrimination 
by abortion against an unborn child on 
the basis of Down syndrome. 

S. 2765 

At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name 
of the Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. 
FISCHER) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2765, a bill to improve Federal fiscal 
controls and the congressional budget 
process. 

S. 2774 

At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the 
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2774, a bill to direct the Attorney General 
to establish and carry out a Veteran 
Treatment Court Program. 

S. 2794 

At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the 
names of the Senator from Tennessee 
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) and the Senator 
from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2794, a bill to 
provide for the creation of the Missing 
Armed Forces Personnel Records Collection 
at the National Archives, to require 
the expeditious public transmission 
to the Archivist and public disclosure 
of Missing Armed Forces Personnel 
records, and for other purposes. 

S. 2803 

At the request of Mr. BROWN, the 
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2803, a bill to provide Federal housing 
assistance on behalf of youths who are 
aging out of foster care, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 2869 

At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the 
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. 
GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 2869, a bill to amend the Immigration 
and Nationality Act to provide for 
extensions of detention of certain 
aliens ordered removed, and for other 
purposes. 
S. 2898 

At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the 
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2898, a bill to amend title 5, United 
States Code, to provide for a full annuity 
supplement for certain air traffic 
controllers. 


S6790 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 2, 2019 

S. 2909 

At the request of Mr. WICKER, the 
name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2909, a bill to extend the 
authority of the National Aeronautics 
and Space Administration to enter into 
leases of non-excess property of the Administration. 


S. 2952 

At the request of Mr. BROWN, the 
name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Ms. WARREN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2952, a bill to reauthorize 
certain National Heritage Areas, and 
for other purposes. 

S. RES. 73 

At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the 
name of the Senator from Massachusetts 
(Ms. WARREN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Res. 73, a resolution calling 
on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to 
immediately release Saudi Women’s 
Rights activists and respect the fundamental 
rights of all Saudi citizens. 

S. RES. 98 

At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN, 
the name of the Senator from Idaho 
(Mr. CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Res. 98, a resolution establishing 
the Congressional Gold Star Family 
Fellowship Program for the placement 
in offices of Senators of children, 
spouses, and siblings of members of the 
Armed Forces who are hostile casualties 
or who have died from a training-
related injury. 

S. RES. 234 
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the 
name of the Senator from Delaware 
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Res. 234, a resolution affirming 
the United States commitment to the 
two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict, and noting that Israeli 
annexation of territory in the West 
Bank would undermine peace and 
Israel’s future as a Jewish and democratic 
state. 

f 

PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR 

Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that Ken Ciarletta, 
Hannah Kitzmiller, Seth MacKinney, 
Colleen O’Connell, Matthew Sartor, 
Maxwell Turner, and Riya Vashi, who 
are interns in Senator ISAKSON’s office, 
be granted floor privileges on Tuesday, 
December 3. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that Jason Maynard, 
who is a defense fellow in Senator 
ISAKSON’s office, be granted floor privileges 
for the remainder of the Congress. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

CAPTAIN ROBERT C. HARMON AND 

PRIVATE JOHN R. PEIRSON POST 

OFFICE BUILDING 

On Thursday, November 21, 2019, the 
Senate passed S. 2712, as follows: 

S. 2712 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of 
Representatives of the United States of America 
in Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. CAPTAIN ROBERT C. HARMON AND 

PRIVATE JOHN R. PEIRSON POST OF


FICE BUILDING. 

(a) DESIGNATION.—The facility of the 
United States Postal Service located at 430 
South Knowles Avenue in New Richmond, 
Wisconsin, shall be known and designated as 
the ‘‘Captain Robert C. Harmon and Private 
John R. Peirson Post Office Building’’. 
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law, 
map, regulation, document, paper, or other 
record of the United States to the facility referred 
to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to 
be a reference to the ‘‘Captain Robert C. Harmon 
and Private John R. Peirson Post Office 
Building’’. 
f 

REAUTHORIZING THE WEST VALLEY 
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT 

Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of Calendar No. 171, H.R. 1138. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the bill by title. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 1138) to reauthorize the West 
Valley demonstration project, and for other 
purposes. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

Mr. BOOZMAN. I ask unanimous consent 
that the bill be considered read a 
third time and passed and that the motion 
to reconsider be considered made 
and laid upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The bill (H.R. 1138) was ordered to a 
third reading, was read the third time, 
and passed. 

f 

SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL FUND 
TO FIGHT AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS 
AND MALARIA, AND THE SIXTH 
REPLENISHMENT 

Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of Calendar 
No. 236, S. Res. 318. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 318) to support the 
Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria, and the Sixth Replenishment. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution, 
which had been reported from the Committee 
on Foreign Relations, with 
amendments, as follows: 

(The parts of the resolution intended to be 
stricken are shown in boldface brackets, and 
the parts of the resolution intended to be inserted 
are shown in italics.) 

S. RES. 318 
Whereas the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis, and Malaria has been an effective 
partnership of governments, the private 
sector, civil society, and affected communities 
to galvanize political and financial ef


forts to improve the response to these 
epidemics since 2002; 

Whereas, in 2017, the Global Fund contributed 
to extraordinary improvements in global 
health that would otherwise not have occurred, 
including a more than 50 percent reduction 
in the number of AIDS-related 
deaths since the peak in 2005, a 37 percent decline 
in tuberculosis (TB) deaths since 2000, 
and a 60 percent decline in the number of 
malaria deaths since 2000; 

Whereas, since the Global Fund’s creation 
in 2002, more than 27,000,000 lives have been 
saved in the countries where it invests; 

Whereas the Global Fund and its partners 
work to maintain a steadfast commitment to 
transparency and accountability and have 
received high marks in multilateral aid reviews 
and by independent watchdog groups; 

Whereas a 2019 study published in the Annals 
of Global Health found evidence of associated 
improvements in government accountability, 
control of corruption, political 
freedoms, regulatory quality, and rule of law 
that are significant in countries where the 
Global Fund invests; 

Whereas, despite progress in combating 
AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, challenges 
such as drug and insecticide resistance, 
reaching marginalized and vulnerable populations, 
and complacency in the fight against 
infectious diseases threaten further progress; 

Whereas United States leadership has been 
critical to the success of the Global Fund, 
both as its largest donor and through its 
oversight role on the Board of the Global 
Fund; 

Whereas Global Fund programs and activities 
support and complement United States 
bilateral health programs, including the 
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, 
the President’s Malaria Initiative, and the 
United States Agency for International Development 
tuberculosis program; 

Whereas the United States is limited by 
law from contributing more than 33 percent 
of the Global Fund budget, thereby encouraging 
other partners to significantly increase 
their contributions; 

Whereas the Global Fund’s requirements 
for co-financing have spurred domestic investments, 
with recipient countries committing 
41 percent more of their own funding to 
fight AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria for 
2018–2020 compared to 2015–2017; 

Whereas the Global Fund has called on donors 
to support its Sixth Replenishment by 
mobilizing a minimum of $14,000,000,000 in 
donor commitments for 2021–2023; 

Whereas Canada, the European Union, Germany, 
India, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, 
Japan, Portugal, Switzerland, and the 
United Kingdom have responded to the call 
by significantly increasing their respective 
pledges for the Sixth Replenishment; 

Whereas recipient countries also are expected 
to increase their co-financing by 48 
percent, growing to $46,000,000,000 in 2021– 
2023; and 

Whereas, with these resources secured, the 
Global Fund projects it will reduce the number 
of deaths due to AIDS, TB, and malaria 
by nearly 50 percent, avert 234,000,000 infections 
or disease cases, and save an additional 
16,000,000 lives; Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) commends the work of the Global Fund 
and its partners for their contributions 
aimed at ending the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, 
and malaria; 
(2) affirms the support of the United States 
for the goal of securing a minimum of 
$14,000,000,000 in donor commitments for the 
Sixth Global Fund Replenishment, to be held 
on October 10, 2019, in Lyon, France; 
(3) supports United States contributions of 33 
percent of the budget provided by the Global 
Fund’s Sixth Replenishment, consistent with 

December 2, 2019 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE 


(Rectangle comment December 2, 2019 Congressional Record
12/11/2019 8:27:55 PM
On page S6791, December 2, 2019, first column, the following appears: 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered. 
The committee-reported amendments were agreed to. 
The resolution (S. Res. 318), as amended, was agreed to. 
The preamble was agreed to. 
(The resolution, with its preamble, is printed in the RECORD of September 17, 2019, under ``Submitted Resolutions.'') 
The online Record has been corrected to read: 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered. 
The committee-reported amendments were agreed to. 
The resolution (S. Res. 318), as amended, was agreed to. 
The preamble was agreed to. 
(The resolution is printed in the Record of Tuesday, December 10, 2019.))
(Text Box comment CORRECTION)
S6791 

section 202(d) of the United States Leadership 
Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria 
Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 7622(d)), and provided 
that the Fund continues to uphold its longstanding 
commitment to transparency, accountability, 
and results in combating AIDS, tuberculosis, 
and malaria; 

ø(3)¿ (4) urges donor countries to step up 
the fight and increase their pledges for the 
Sixth Global Fund Replenishment; 

ø(4)¿ (5) urges Global Fund recipient countries 
to continue to make and meet ambitious 
co-financing commitments to sustain 
progress in ending the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, 
and malaria; and 

ø(5)¿ (6) encourages United States bilateral 
aid programs to continue their collaboration 
with the Global Fund to maximize the life-
saving impact of global health investments. 

Mr. BOOZMAN. I ask unanimous consent 
that the committee-reported 
amendments to the resolution be 
agreed to; that the resolution, as 
amended, be agreed to; that the preamble 
be agreed to; and that the motions 
to reconsider be considered made 
and laid upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The committee-reported amendments 
were agreed to. 

The resolution (S. Res. 318), as 
amended, was agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

(The resolution is printed in the 
RECORD of Tuesday, December 10, 2019.) 

f 

NATIONAL RUNAWAY PREVENTION 
MONTH 

Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on the Judiciary be discharged 
from further consideration of S. Res. 
442 and that the Senate proceed to its 
immediate consideration. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 442) designating November 
2019 as ‘‘National Runaway Prevention 
Month’’. 

There being no objection, the committee 
was discharged, and the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. BOOZMAN. I know of no further 
debate on the measure. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there 
is no further debate, the question is on 
agreeing to the resolution. 

The resolution (S. Res. 442) was 
agreed to. 

Mr. BOOZMAN. I ask unanimous consent 
that the preamble be agreed to 
and that the motions to reconsider be 
considered made and laid upon the 
table with no intervening action or debate. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 

objection, it is so ordered. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

(The resolution, with its preamble, is 
printed in the RECORD of November 21, 
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’) 

f 

ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, 
DECEMBER 3, 2019 
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that when the Sen


ate completes its business today, it adjourn 
until 10 a.m., Tuesday, December 
3; further, that following the prayer 
and pledge, the morning hour be 
deemed expired, the Journal of proceedings 
be approved to date, the time 
for the two leaders be reserved for their 
use later in the day, morning business 
be closed, and the Senate proceed to 
executive session and resume consideration 
of the Komitee nomination under 
the previous order; finally, that the 
Senate recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 

p.m. to allow for the conference meetings. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M. 
TOMORROW 

Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, if 
there is no further business to come before 
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent 
that it stand adjourned under the 
previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 6:38 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday, 
December 3, 2019, at 10 a.m. 

f 

NOMINATIONS 

Executive nominations received by 
the Senate: 

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 

CHARLES WILLIAMS, OF MISSOURI, TO BE AN ASSISTANT 
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY, VICE PHYLLIS L. BAYER, 
RESIGNED. 

THE JUDICIARY 

JOHN PETER CRONAN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED 
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT 
OF NEW YORK, VICE WILLIAM H. PAULEY III, RETIRED. 

WILLIAM SCOTT HARDY, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN 
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, VICE NORA BARRY FISCHER, 
RETIRED. 

JOHN F. HEIL III, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE UNITED STATES 
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN, EASTERN AND 
WESTERN DISTRICTS OF OKLAHOMA, VICE JAMES H. 
PAYNE, RETIRED. 

JOHN CHARLES HINDERAKER, OF ARIZONA, TO BE 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF 
ARIZONA, VICE RANER CHRISTERCUNEAN COLLINS, RETIRED. 


DAVID CLEVELAND JOSEPH, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN 
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA, VICE DEE D. DRELL, RETIRED. 

IRIS LAN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED STATES DISTRICT 
JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW 
YORK, VICE KATHERINE B. FORREST, RESIGNED. 

MATTHEW THOMAS SCHELP, OF MISSOURI, TO BE 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN 
DISTRICT OF MISSOURI, VICE STEPHEN N. LIMBAUGH, 
JR., RETIRING. 

FOREIGN SERVICE 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED MEMBERS OF THE FOREIGN 
SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE TO BE A FOREIGN 
SERVICE OFFICER, A CONSULAR OFFICER, AND A 
SECRETARY IN THE DIPLOMATIC SERVICE OF THE 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: 

SHON STEPHEN BELCHER, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM


BIA 
CHARLES C. BLAKE III, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
DAVID L. BRUNS, OF FLORIDA 
PEDRO G. CAMPO-BOUE, OF FLORIDA 
HSIAO-CHING CHANG, OF CALIFORNIA 
JASMIN S. CHO, OF WASHINGTON 
NURIT S. EINIK, OF FLORIDA 
MICHAEL H. ELLIOTT, OF WYOMING 
LINDSAY C. FAIR, OF TEXAS 
LESLIE M. FENTON, OF CALIFORNIA 
OWEN P. FLETCHER, OF CALIFORNIA 
WILLIAM WEST FOLLMER, OF MARYLAND 
JEAN M. FOSTER, OF COLORADO 
NICHOLAS J. GEBOY, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
ELIZABETH A. GEE, OF FLORIDA 
JULIANA E. HANSON, OF NORTH CAROLINA 
RICHARD E. HEATER, OF TEXAS 
DENNIE S. HOOPINGARNER, OF MICHIGAN 
JEFFRY A. JACKSON, OF CONNECTICUT 
JOSHUA W. KAMP, OF NEW YORK 
JOSEPH J. KIM, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
OLENA A. KRAWCIW, OF VIRGINIA 
LAURA A. MACARTHUR, OF CALIFORNIA 
CAROLINE J. MANN, OF FLORIDA 

BRIAN C. MCKEAN, OF FLORIDA 
KEAVY C. NAHAN, OF TEXAS 
PAUL A. ROELLE, OF PENNSYLVANIA 
JENNINE R. RUDNITSKI, OF MINNESOTA 
TIMOTHY C. SARRAILLE, OF VIRGINIA 
ADAM L. SCHICK, OF WASHINGTON 
CIGDEM ZEYNEP SOYLUOGLU-HOYT, OF CALIFORNIA 
TYLER J. STODDARD, OF IDAHO 
SHRAVAN SURENDRA, OF VIRGINIA 
BRITTANY D. THOMPSON, OF VIRGINIA 
AARON D. TIFFANY, OF WASHINGTON 
DIMITRI VARMAZIS, OF MASSACHUSETTS 
JONATHAN BLAKE VAUGHAN, OF TENNESSEE 
TAMARA LYN PICARDO RIVERA WILSON, OF VIRGINIA 
KATHRYN M. WISEMAN, OF TEXAS 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED CAREER MEMBERS OF THE 
FOREIGN SERVICE FOR PROMOTION INTO THE SENIOR 
FOREIGN SERVICE, AS A CAREER MEMBER OF THE SENIOR 
FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF COUNSELOR, AND A 
CONSULAR OFFICER AND A SECRETARY IN THE DIPLOMATIC 
SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: 

GHARUN S. LACY, OF MARYLAND 
DAVID MANGO, OF NEW YORK 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED MEMBERS OF THE FOREIGN 
SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE TO BE A CONSULAR 
OFFICER AND A SECRETARY IN THE DIPLOMATIC 
SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: 

KARA MIRIAM ABRAMSON, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM


BIA 
EUNICE O. AJAYI, OF MARYLAND 
DANE DIXSON ALLEN-BRYANT, OF THE DISTRICT OF CO


LUMBIA 
ROBERT STEVEN BAKER, OF VIRGINIA 
DANIEL DEE BARELLO, OF VIRGINIA 
KEVIN SILAS BARLOW, OF GEORGIA 
NIKKI BARNES, OF MARYLAND 
TYRA ZURI HAYES BEAMAN, OF VIRGINIA 
AARON WALTER BECKER, OF VIRGINIA 
RAMI LOWELL BLAIR, OF RHODE ISLAND 
JOSEPH THOREL BODELL, OF VIRGINIA 
MIGUEL ALEXANDER BOLUDA, OF THE DISTRICT OF CO


LUMBIA 
SAMANTHA R. BONENCLARK, OF FLORIDA 
STEFANIE MICHELLE BRASWELL, OF THE DISTRICT OF 

COLUMBIA 
DANIEL JOHN BUCHMAN, OF NEW YORK 
THOMAS ADAMS BUCKLEY, OF VIRGINIA 
ROBERT SCOTT BUNCH, OF VIRGINIA 
TARYN E. BURTON, OF VIRGINIA 
RANDALL EUGENE BUSSMAN, OF VIRGINIA 
COLEMAN DAVID BUTTERWORTH, OF VIRGINIA 
CORINNE DENISE CALABRO, OF VIRGINIA 
NICHELLE I. CARTER, OF MARYLAND 
CAITLIN MARIE CASSOT, OF WASHINGTON 
EDUARDO CASTILLO, JR., OF TEXAS 
MIN-LING CHANG, OF MARYLAND 
LILLIAN KATHARINE CHREKY, OF VIRGINIA 
ANTHONY CYPRIAN CHRISTIAN, OF MARYLAND 
MATTHEW FRANKLIN CLARK, OF VIRGINIA 
KEMPTON J. COX, OF IDAHO 
CORY DAVID CURRAN, OF VIRGINIA 
JOHN R. DANILIUK, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
DANIEL ALAN DEGROFF, OF FLORIDA 
ALEXANDRA R. DEL SOLAR, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM


BIA 
TARIQ Q. DESIR, OF VIRGINIA 
SAUMYA V. DEVA, OF CALIFORNIA 
ANIKA MARIE DEVOLDER, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM


BIA 
RURIK H. DIEHL, OF VIRGINIA 
JACOB E. DIETRICH, OF KENTUCKY 
SURAYYA IMANI DIGGS, OF NEW YORK 
CHRISTA L. DIVIS, OF SOUTH CAROLINA 
BENNETT K. DOMINGUES, OF VIRGINIA 
JOYCE E. DUDLEY, OF MARYLAND 
MARK PHILIP DUGGAN, OF VIRGINIA 
STEPHEN EDINGER, OF VIRGINIA 
KELSEY BROOKE EGAN, OF VIRGINIA 
NURMUKHAMED A. ELDOSOV, OF OHIO 
GREGORY R. ELROD, OF SOUTH CAROLINA 
STEVEN M. ELWOOD, OF VIRGINIA 
MARYAN ADEL FOUAD FARAG, OF VIRGINIA 
CHRISTOPHER FRANKLIN, OF MARYLAND 
SYDNEY L. FREEMAN, OF NEW JERSEY 
SAYER FRENCH, OF VIRGINIA 
JAMES ANDREW GALINDO, OF VIRGINIA 
KATIE VANESSA GARAY, OF VIRGINIA 
BEAU PAUL GARRETT, OF WASHINGTON 
KUROS GHAFFARI, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
EMILY RUTH GOODELL, OF VIRGINIA 
DANIEL GUINDON, OF VIRGINIA 
AMEERA RUMANA HAMID, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM


BIA 
JOHN JOSEPH HARRINGTON III, OF THE DISTRICT OF CO


LUMBIA 
ALLISON KELLY HAUGEN, OF WASHINGTON 
COREY A. HENTON, OF VIRGINIA 
SARAH MELISSA HERNANDEZ, OF TEXAS 
MATTHEW H. HINSON, OF NEW JERSEY 
DYLAN R. HOEY, OF WISCONSIN 
ALEXANDER JOSEPH HOLMES, OF VIRGINIA 
LAUREN E. HOLT, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
JESSE J. HONG, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
LAUREN KIMBERLY HOVIS, OF VIRGINIA 
TONY HUDSON, JR., OF GEORGIA 
CHRISTINE RENE HUFF, OF VIRGINIA 
TERRELL DWAYNE HUNT, OF INDIANA 
ANDREW WILLIAM HUTTO, OF VIRGINIA 


S6792 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 2, 2019 

BETTY NGOC HUYNH, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

TY ANTHONY ISOM, OF VIRGINIA 

NATHAN R. JOHNSON, OF MINNESOTA 

GREGORY K. JOY, OF NEW YORK 

WAQQAS KHALID, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

ANDREW J. KING, OF VIRGINIA 

JOHANNA L. KNOCH, OF COLORADO 

KESHIA MAE KUHN, OF TENNESSEE 

FREDDY OUANDJA LAKOUNDZI, OF VIRGINIA 

SEAN M. LAWLOR, OF VIRGINIA 

HILARY B. LEPUIL, OF VIRGINIA 

BRIAN GEOFFREY LIPSKI, OF VIRGINIA 

INGRID JENAI LOMAX, OF VIRGINIA 

PATRICK JOSEPH LUKANICH, OF VIRGINIA 

MICHAEL PATRICK LYNCH, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 


BRENDAN ELIAS MAGNUSON, OF VIRGINIA 

HENRY PATRICK MAHONEY, OF VIRGINIA 

MICHAEL P. MARETTE, OF VIRGINIA 

JAMES M. MARINO, OF VIRGINIA 

LYNN EDMONDS MCCREDY, JR., OF VIRGINIA 

HEATHER AILENE MCINNIS, OF VIRGINIA 

ALEXANDER PAUL MCKENNEY, OF VIRGINIA 

ANDREO MICIC, OF VIRGINIA 

LARISSA M. MIHALISKO, OF VIRGINIA 

BRANDON MILFORD, OF VIRGINIA 

VANESSA JANE MOGLIN, OF VIRGINIA 

MARC ANDREW MONROIG, OF NEW YORK 

WILLIAM ROBERT MONTGOMERY, OF VIRGINIA 

SANJAY Y. MURTY, OF VIRGINIA 

ASEEBULLA A. NIAZI, OF NEW HAMPSHIRE 

STEVEN PAUL NICHOLSON, OF FLORIDA 

ASHLEY JO NIEDERMAYER, OF VIRGINIA 

KIMBERLY G. OFOBIKE, OF VIRGINIA 

CHRISTEL OOMEN, OF OREGON 

KELSEY ANN ORR, OF NORTH CAROLINA 

MARY E. OVERBECK, OF VIRGINIA 

NOOR BADRELDIN OWEIS, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 


LAURA J. PARK, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

CATHERINE NICOLE PLANT, OF VIRGINIA 

BENJAMIN MICHAEL QUINN, OF VIRGINIA 

GRAYSON EDWARD RAMSEY, OF VIRGINIA 

GREGORY J. REDMANN, OF VIRGINIA 

TYLER JAY REIS, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

CLARK E. ROBERTON, OF VIRGINIA 

LORI A. ROBERTS, OF VIRGINIA 

NICOLE R. ROBERTS, OF MASSACHUSETTS 

KALIF R. ROBINSON, OF GEORGIA 

NATALIE R. ROOKS, OF COLORADO 

NICHOLAS L. ROSCOE, OF VIRGINIA 

WILLIAM H. Z. SCHLOSSBERG, OF VIRGINIA 

PATRICK SHILLADAY SCOTT, OF VIRGINIA 

MEHEK SETHI, OF GEORGIA 

PATRICK M. SHEEHAN, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

KRISTINA SHERMAN, OF VIRGINIA 

MADELYN D. SMITH, OF WASHINGTON 

AXEL SPAEH, OF VIRGINIA 

MICHAEL A. STOCK, OF KANSAS 

CAMILLE Z. SWINSON, OF MASSACHUSETTS 

MELINDA LEANNE THOMPSON, OF VIRGINIA 

HAWI T. TILAHUNE, OF MINNESOTA 

SULAIMAN H. TOGHRAL, OF WEST VIRGINIA 

MINH H. TOKUYAMA, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

JESUS AMADOR TORRES, OF VIRGINIA 

RYAN L. TRUNK, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

VALERIE N. TUCKER, OF FLORIDA 

KAITLYN R. TURNER, OF VIRGINIA 

PABLO JAIRO TUTILLO MALDONADO, OF CONNECTICUT 

JESSICA ERIN TYLECKI, OF VIRGINIA 

JUAN-PAULO VARELA, OF CALIFORNIA 

GILBERTO MANUEL VELAZQUEZ-APONTE, OF VIRGINIA 

CALE F. WAGNER, OF NORTH DAKOTA 

JEFFREY LEE WATTS, OF TEXAS 

MICHAEL J. WEBER, OF MINNESOTA 

STEVEN DUANE WEBER, OF VIRGINIA 

KELSEY L. WILLIAMS, OF FLORIDA 

CHELSEA A. WILSON, OF MARYLAND 

HENRY B. WILSON, OF VIRGINIA 

JORDAN L. WILSON, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

ALEXANDRA MARIE ZOLNOWSKI, OF THE DISTRICT OF 
COLUMBIA 

DEREK JASON ZORETIC, OF VIRGINIA 

MEGAN ELIZABETH ZUROWSKI, OF VIRGINIA 

THE FOLLOWING-NAMED CAREER MEMBER OF THE 
SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
STATE FOR PROMOTION WITHIN THE SENIOR FOREIGN 
SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CLASS OF 
CAREER MINISTER: 

LAURA FARNSWORTH DOGU, OF TEXAS 
THE FOLLOWING-NAMED MEMBERS OF THE FOREIGN 

SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE TO BE A CON


SULAR OFFICER AND A SECRETARY IN THE DIPLOMATIC 
SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: 
JENNY U. ABAMU, OF TEXAS 

SEAN GREGORY ALLAN, OF VIRGINIA 

MAXIMILIAN E. AVILES, OF CALIFORNIA 

MARTHA JEANNETTE BERRY, OF TEXAS 

ROHINI BHAUMIK, OF VIRGINIA 

DONALD JUDSON BLAKESLEE, OF VIRGINIA 

RAUSAN BORUJERDI, OF NEW YORK 

TIMOTHY A. BOWMAN, OF VIRGINIA 

LOGAN VICTOR BROG, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

CAMERON C. BROWN, OF VIRGINIA 

JEFFREY S. BUNTING, OF VIRGINIA 

THOMAS CLIFFORD BURGESS, OF VIRGINIA 

DIANE ELIZABETH CARROLL, OF ILLINOIS 

PATRICK B. CHEETHAM, OF VIRGINIA 

JOANNA D. CHEN, OF NEW YORK 

LACY HEBERT CHEUNG, OF VIRGINIA 

VERONICA P. CHIU, OF CONNECTICUT 

JENNIFER ELIZABETH COLE, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 


AMY E. CONROY, OF CONNECTICUT 

KAITLIN ANN CRILE, OF VIRGINIA 

COREY JAMES CROWLEY, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 


ANDREW K. DANTO, OF PENNSYLVANIA 

TANYA N. DONANGMAYE, OF NEW YORK 

KELLY E. DUBOIS, OF ALASKA 

ALYSSA HOPE FELDSTEIN, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 


FAITH E. FUGAR, OF MARYLAND 

ADAM JOHN GALLAGHER, OF CALIFORNIA 

USRA GHAZI, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

MARICHUY GOMEZ, OF CALIFORNIA 

ALAN HUSTON GORDON, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

JOY P. GRAINGER, OF SOUTH CAROLINA 

OLEKSANDRA V. GUBINA, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 


ABDULRAHMAN MOHAMMED HABEEB, OF THE DISTRICT 
OF COLUMBIA 

FRANK FORESTER LESLIE HARRINGTON IV, OF WEST 
VIRGINIA 

JERRY WAYNE HAYNES II, OF VIRGINIA 

MEREDITH NOELLE HEALY, OF COLORADO 

JEFFREY N. HENRY, OF VIRGINIA 

MANUELA HERNANDEZ, OF FLORIDA 

SIMON ANDREW HESSLER, OF VIRGINIA 

SVEN BERTIL HESTRAND, OF VIRGINIA 

LISA B. HOEKSEMA, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

RICHARD S. HOLLIDAY, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

ANKHET HOLMES, OF CALIFORNIA 

WAYNE WILLIAM HOSEK, OF VIRGINIA 

KELLY ELIZABETH JOHNSON, OF VIRGINIA 

RACHEL E. KING, OF OHIO 

ETHAN N. KINNEY, OF ALABAMA 

JAMES ALLEN KOEHLER, OF VIRGINIA 

SARAH MICHELLE KOELBL, OF VIRGINIA 

SIERRA N. LEKIE, OF VIRGINIA 

JAMES ALLAN LOBB II, OF VIRGINIA 

LUKAS LONCKO, OF VIRGINIA 

KEVIN LYNCH, OF VIRGINIA 

KAMILA P. MANZUETA, OF FLORIDA 

GREGORY JAMES MARCHWINSKI, OF VIRGINIA 

CHRISTOPHER ALAN MARSH, OF CALIFORNIA 

JOSEPH R. MARTELLO, OF VIRGINIA 

DONNA CATHERINE MARZO, OF VIRGINIA 

PATRICK T. MAXWELL, OF PENNSYLVANIA 

BENJAMIN R. MCINTOSH, OF CALIFORNIA 

KATHARINE ARMSTRONG JENSEN MCINTOSH, OF VIRGINIA 


AUSTIN BLAINE MCKINNEY, OF MICHIGAN 

RYAN JAMES MCNAMARA, OF VIRGINIA 

LAUREN A. MEINHART, OF VIRGINIA 

MANUEL JOSE MENOCAL, OF VIRGINIA 

ELIZABETH M. MERAVI, OF MASSACHUSETTS 

CARYL ANNA MERTEN, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

BRITTNIE ANNE MORRISON, OF VIRGINIA 
FATIMA T. MORRISROE, OF VIRGINIA 
STEPHANIE L. MULLER, OF VIRGINIA 
RADHA NEELAKANTAN, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
CHRISTINA E. PAUL, OF FLORIDA 
JAMES CAMPBELL PERSHING, OF MASSACHUSETTS 
AMANDA PESKIN, OF COLORADO 
LANCE ERICH PETERSON, OF VIRGINIA 
SIOBHAN J. POLLOCK, OF VIRGINIA 
JAMAICA AFIYA POUNCY, OF TEXAS 
DAVID ALLEN RACKOVAN, JR., OF THE DISTRICT OF CO


LUMBIA 
KATHRYN L. RASMUSSEN, OF WISCONSIN 
LILIAS ACACIA REEDER, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
ELISABETH JANE REIGEL, OF VIRGINIA 
NATALIE RUTH REYNOLDS, OF VIRGINIA 
KELLY JAMES RICE, OF SOUTH CAROLINA 
CHRISTOPHER BLAKE ROLLINS, OF THE DISTRICT OF CO


LUMBIA 
KEVIN JAMES ROSATI, OF VIRGINIA 
JOSEPH C. RUSSELL, OF VIRGINIA 
JOHANNA P. SANCHEZ, OF NEW YORK 
TAWNI L. SASAKI, OF CALIFORNIA 
YEVGEN SAUTIN, OF FLORIDA 
JENNIFER M. SCHMIDT, OF OREGON 
BRIAN E. SELMAN, OF TEXAS 
ZINNA SENBETTA, OF ILLINOIS 
CLAIRE VICTORIA SHELDEN, OF COLORADO 
JENNIFER J. SHIN, OF NEW YORK 
JENNIFER LYNN SHINGLER, OF VIRGINIA 
HAROLD FRANK JOSEPH SHIRLEY, OF VIRGINIA 
DEANDRE D. SMITH, OF MARYLAND 
TREVOR J. SMITH, OF FLORIDA 
CAITLIN A. STRAWDER, OF FLORIDA 
DOMINICK E. TAO, OF FLORIDA 
MARK S. THOMPSON, OF VIRGINIA 
CLAIRE ELIZABETH VALLIN, OF MICHIGAN 
SEAN DAVID VARNER, OF VIRGINIA 
LAUREN J. VINE, OF CALIFORNIA 
CRYSTAL N. WAITEKUS, OF VIRGINIA 
GRAYSON M. WALKER, OF VIRGINIA 
ALEXANDER F. WATSON, OF FLORIDA 
KRISTIN WEBER, OF VIRGINIA 
SEAN MICHAEL WEIDNER, OF MARYLAND 
ELISSA MARIE WEINGART, OF VIRGINIA 
TERRY-ANN T. WELLINGTON, OF TEXAS 
URI WHANG, OF VIRGINIA 
JULIE L. WILKINS, OF VIRGINIA 
LESLIE ELISABETH WILSON, OF THE DISTRICT OF CO


LUMBIA 
JUWAN A. WOODS, OF LOUISIANA 
ANDREW HENRY WRIGHT, OF VIRGINIA 
TIFFANY JIUN-TYAN WU, OF VIRGINIA 
SARAHANN Y. YEH, OF VIRGINIA 
HAMDA A. YUSUF, OF WASHINGTON 

f 

CONFIRMATION 

Executive nomination confirmed by 
the Senate December 2, 2019: 

DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 

DAN R. BROUILLETTE, OF TEXAS, TO BE SECRETARY 
OF ENERGY. 

f 

WITHDRAWAL 

Executive Message transmitted by 
the President to the Senate on December 
2, 2019 withdrawing from further 
Senate consideration the following 
nomination: 

BARRY LEE MYERS, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE UNDER 
SECRETARY OF COMMERCE FOR OCEANS AND ATMOSPHERE, 
VICE KATHRYN D. SULLIVAN, RESIGNED, WHICH 
WAS SENT TO THE SENATE ON JANUARY 16, 2019. 


December 2, 2019 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1519 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS 
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4, 
agreed to by the Senate of February 4, 
1977, calls for establishment of a system 
for a computerized schedule of all 
meetings and hearings of Senate committees, 
subcommittees, joint committees, 
and committees of conference. 
This title requires all such committees 
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest—designated by the Rules Committee—
of the time, place and purpose 
of the meetings, when scheduled and 
any cancellations or changes in the 
meetings as they occur. 
As an additional procedure along 
with the computerization of this information, 
the Office of the Senate Daily 
Digest will prepare this information for 
printing in the Extensions of Remarks 
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
on Monday and Wednesday of each 
week. 
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, December 
3, 2019 may be found in the 
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD. 

MEETINGS SCHEDULED 

DECEMBER 4 
10 a.m. 
Committee on Armed Services 
Subcommittee on Readiness and Management 
Support 
To hold a joint hearing with the Subcommittee 
on Readiness and Management 
to examine United States Navy 
ship and submarine maintenance. 
SD–106 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation 
To hold hearings to examine legislative 
proposals to protect consumer data privacy. 
SH–216 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works 
To hold hearings to examine an original 
bill to create a U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service Chronic Wasting Disease Task 
Force. 
SD–406 
Committee on Foreign Relations 
To hold an oversight hearing to examine 
the Millennium Challenge Corporation. 
SD–419 

Committee on the Judiciary 

To hold hearings to examine the nominations 
of Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, 
to be United States Circuit 
Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, Fernando 
L. Aenlle-Rocha, to be United 
States District Judge for the Central 
District of California, John Charles 
Hinderaker, to be United States District 
Judge for the District of Arizona, 
Joshua M. Kindred, to be United States 
District Judge for the District of Alaska, 
Scott H. Rash, to be United States 
District Judge for the District of Arizona, 
and Matthew Thomas Schelp, to 
be United States District Judge for the 
Eastern District of Missouri. 

SD–226 

2:30 p.m. 
Committee on Armed Services 
Subcommittee on Personnel 
To hold hearings to examine testimony 
about servicemember, family, and veteran 
suicides and prevention strategies. 
SR–222 
Committee on Foreign Relations 
Subcommittee on Near East, South Asia, 
Central Asia, and Counterterrorism 
To hold hearings to examine Lebanon 
and Iraq protests, focusing on insights, 
implications, and objectives for United 
States policy. 
SD–419 
Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine the nomination 
of Paul J. Ray, of Tennessee, to be 
Administrator of the Office of Information 
and Regulatory Affairs, Office of 
Management and Budget. 

SD–342 

DECEMBER 5 

9:30 a.m. 
Committee on Armed Services 
To hold hearings to examine strategic 
threats, ongoing challenges, and National 
Defense Strategy implementation. 


SD–G50 
10 a.m. 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs 
To hold an oversight hearing to examine 
financial regulators. 
SD–538 

Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation 
Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, 
Innovation, and the Internet 
To hold hearings to examine the evolution 
of next-generation technologies, 

focusing on implementing MOBILE 
NOW. 
SH–216 
Committee on Foreign Relations 

Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, 
Transnational Crime, Civilian Security, 
Democracy, Human Rights, and 
Global Women’s Issues 

To hold hearings to examine illicit mining, 
focusing on threats to United 
States national security and international 
human rights. 

SD–419 
Commission on Security and Cooperation 
in Europe 

To hold hearings to examine public diplomacy, 
democracy, and global leadership. 


TBA 
2 p.m. 
Select Committee on Intelligence 
To receive a closed briefing on certain 
intelligence matters. 
SH–219 

DECEMBER 10 
10 a.m. 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs 
To hold an oversight hearing to examine 
the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
SD–538 

DECEMBER 11 
10 a.m. 
Committee on the Judiciary 
To hold hearings to examine the Inspector 
General’s report on alleged abuses 
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
Act. 
SD–226 

2:30 p.m. 
Committee on Indian Affairs 
To hold hearings to examine the nomination 
of Michael D. Weahkee, of New 
Mexico, to be Director of the Indian 
Health Service, Department of Health 
and Human Services. 

SD–628 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


Monday, December 2, 2019 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 

See Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity. 

Senate confirmed the nomination of Dan R. Brouillette, of Texas, to be 

Secretary of Energy. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S6781–S6792 

Measures Introduced: Four bills were introduced, 
as follows: S. 2959–2962. Page S6788 

Measures Reported: 

S. 1349, to expand enrollment in TSA PreCheck 
to expedite commercial travel screening and improve 
airport security. (S. Rept. No. 116–163) Page S6788 
Measures Passed: 

West Valley demonstration project: Senate passed 

H.R. 1138, to reauthorize the West Valley demonstration 
project. Page S6790 
Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria, and the Sixth Replenishment: Senate 
agreed to S. Res. 318, to support the Global Fund 
to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and the 
Sixth Replenishment, after agreeing to the committee 
amendments. Pages S6790–91 

National Runaway Prevention Month: Committee 
on the Judiciary was discharged from further 
consideration of S. Res. 442, designating November 
2019 as ‘‘National Runaway Prevention Month’’, and 
the resolution was then agreed to. Page S6791 

Komitee Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed 
consideration of the nomination of Eric Ross 
Komitee, to be United States District Judge for the 
Eastern District of New York. Page S6786 

During consideration of this nomination today, 
Senate also took the following action: 

By 81 yeas to 5 nays (Vote No. EX. 368), Senate 
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the 
nomination. Page S6786 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
that notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 

XXII, the time post-cloture on the nomination expire 
at 11:45 a.m., on Tuesday, December 3, 2019. 

Page S6786 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
for further consideration of the nomination, 
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday, 
December 3, 2019. Page S6791 

Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the following 
nomination: 

By 70 yeas to 15 nays (Vote No. EX. 367), Dan 

R. Brouillette, of Texas, to be Secretary of Energy. 
Pages S6781–86 

Nominations Received: Senate received the following 
nominations: 

Charles Williams, of Missouri, to be an Assistant 
Secretary of the Navy. 

John Peter Cronan, of New York, to be United 
States District Judge for the Southern District of 
New York. 

William Scott Hardy, of Pennsylvania, to be 
United States District Judge for the Western District 
of Pennsylvania. 

John F. Heil III, of Oklahoma, to be United 
States District Judge for the Northern, Eastern and 
Western Districts of Oklahoma. 

John Charles Hinderaker, of Arizona, to be United 
States District Judge for the District of Arizona. 

David Cleveland Joseph, of Louisiana, to be 
United States District Judge for the Western District 
of Louisiana. 

Iris Lan, of New York, to be United States District 
Judge for the Southern District of New York. 

Matthew Thomas Schelp, of Missouri, to be 
United States District Judge for the Eastern District 
of Missouri. 

Routine lists in the Foreign Service. 

Pages S6791–92 

D1306 


December 2, 2019 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1307 

Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notification 
of withdrawal of the following nomination: 

Barry Lee Myers, of Pennsylvania, to be Under 
Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, 
which was sent to the Senate on January 16, 2019. 

Page S6792 

Executive Communications: Page S6788 

Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6788–90 

Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions: 

Additional Statements: Pages S6787–88 

Privileges of the Floor: Page S6790 

Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today. 
(Total—368) Page S6786 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and adjourned 
at 6:38 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, December 
3, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks 
of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s 
Record on page S6791.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

No committee meetings were held. 

h 

House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

The House was not in session today. The House 
is scheduled to meet at 2 p.m. on Tuesday, December 
3, 2019. 

Committee Meetings 

No hearings were held. 

Joint Meetings 

No joint committee meetings were held. 

f 

NEW PUBLIC LAWS 

(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D1230) 

H.R. 3055, making further continuing appropriations 
for fiscal year 2020. (Public Law 116–69) 
S. 862, to extend the sunset for collateral requirements 
for Small Business Administration disaster 
loans. Signed on November 22, 2019. (Public Law 
116–70) 
H.R. 2423, to require the Secretary of the Treasury 
to mint coins in commemoration of ratification 
of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States, giving women in the United States 
the right to vote. Signed on November 25, 2019. 
(Public Law 116–71) 
H.R. 724, to revise section 48 of title 18, United 
States Code. Signed on November 25, 2019. (Public 
Law 116–72) 
H.R. 1123, to amend title 28, United States 
Code, to modify the composition of the eastern judicial 
district of Arkansas. Signed on November 26, 
2019. (Public Law 116–73) 
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY, 
DECEMBER 3, 2019 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine 
testimony from the Government Accountability Office on 
privatized housing findings to include responses from the 
military services on ongoing reports of substandard housing 
conditions and services, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50. 

Committee on Environment and Public Works: Subcommittee 
on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety, to hold hearings 
to examine the nomination of Robert J. Feitel, of 
Maryland, to be Inspector General, Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, 3 p.m., SD–406. 

Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to examine 
the future of United States policy towards Russia, 
9:45 a.m., SD–419. 

Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: business 
meeting to consider the nominations of Stephen 
Hahn, of Texas, to be Commissioner of Food and Drugs, 
Department of Health and Human Services, Richard 
Giacolone, of Virginia, to be Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Director, and Cynthia L. Attwood, of Virginia, 
and Amanda Wood Laihow, of Maine, both to be a Member 
of Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission, 
10 a.m., SD–430. 

Committee on Judiciary: Subcommittee on Intellectual 
Property, to hold hearings to examine fraudulent trademarks, 
focusing on how they undermine the trademark 
system and harm American consumers and businesses, 3 
p.m., SD–226. 

Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed briefing 
on certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219. 

House 

Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R. 
2534, the ‘‘Insider Trading Prohibition Act’’; and H. Res. 
326, expressing the sense of the House of Representatives 


D1308 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 2, 2019 

regarding United States efforts to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict through a negotiated two-state solution, 5 
p.m., H–313 Capitol. 

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Committee, 
business meeting on Consideration of the Report 
Issued by the Chair, Pursuant to Section 2, Paragraph 6 
of H. Res. 660, as Part of the House of Representatives’ 
Impeachment Inquiry, 6 p.m., HVC–304. 

Joint Meetings 

Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to receive 
a briefing on Balkan recovery, focusing on corruption, 
2 p.m., 210, Cannon Building. 

f 

CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD 
Week of December 3 through December 6, 2019 

Senate Chamber 

On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of 
the nomination of Eric Ross Komitee, to be United 
States District Judge for the Eastern District of New 
York, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation thereon 
at 11:45 a.m. 

Following disposition of the nomination of Eric 
Ross Komitee, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke 
cloture on the nomination of John L. Sinatra, 
Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Western 
District of New York. 

During the balance of the week, Senate may consider 
any cleared legislative and executive business. 

Senate Committees 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 
Committee on Armed Services: December 3, to hold hearings 
to examine testimony from the Government Accountability 
Office on privatized housing findings to include 
responses from the military services on ongoing reports 
of substandard housing conditions and services, 9:30 
a.m., SD–G50. 
December 4, Subcommittee on SeaPower, with the 
Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support, to 
hold a joint hearing with the Subcommittee on Readiness 
and Management to examine United States Navy ship 
and submarine maintenance, 10 a.m., SD–106. 
December 4, Subcommittee on Personnel, to hold hearings 
to examine testimony about servicemember, family, 
and veteran suicides and prevention strategies, 2:30 p.m., 
SR–222. 
December 5, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine 
strategic threats, ongoing challenges, and National 
Defense Strategy implementation, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50. 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: December 
5, to hold an oversight hearing to examine financial 
regulators, 10 a.m., SD–538. 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: December 
4, to hold hearings to examine legislative proposals 
to protect consumer data privacy, 10 a.m., 
SH–216. 

December 5, Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, 
Innovation, and the Internet, to hold hearings to 
examine the evolution of next-generation technologies, focusing 
on implementing MOBILE NOW, 10 a.m., 
SH–216. 

Committee on Environment and Public Works: December 3, 
Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety, to hold 
hearings to examine the nomination of Robert J. Feitel, 
of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, 3 p.m., SD–406. 

December 4, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine 
an original bill to create a U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service Chronic Wasting Disease Task Force, 10 a.m., 
SD–406. 

Committee on Foreign Relations: December 3, to hold 
hearings to examine the future of United States policy towards 
Russia, 9:45 a.m., SD–419. 

December 4, Full Committee, to hold an oversight 
hearing to examine the Millennium Challenge Corporation, 
10 a.m., SD–419. 

December 4, Subcommittee on Near East, South Asia, 
Central Asia, and Counterterrorism, to hold hearings to 
examine Lebanon and Iraq protests, focusing on insights, 
implications, and objectives for United States policy, 2:30 
p.m., SD–419. 

December 5, Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, 
Transnational Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, 
Human Rights, and Global Women’s Issues, to hold 
hearings to examine illicit mining, focusing on threats to 
United States national security and international human 
rights, 10 a.m., SD–419. 

Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: December 
3, business meeting to consider the nominations 
of Stephen Hahn, of Texas, to be Commissioner of Food 
and Drugs, Department of Health and Human Services, 
Richard Giacolone, of Virginia, to be Federal Mediation 
and Conciliation Director, and Cynthia L. Attwood, of 
Virginia, and Amanda Wood Laihow, of Maine, both to 
be a Member of Occupational Safety and Health Review 
Commission, 10 a.m., SD–430. 

Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs: 
December 4, to hold hearings to examine the nomination 
of Paul J. Ray, of Tennessee, to be Administrator of the 
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of 
Management and Budget, 2:30 p.m., SD–342. 

Committee on Judiciary: December 3, Subcommittee on 
Intellectual Property, to hold hearings to examine fraudulent 
trademarks, focusing on how they undermine the 
trademark system and harm American consumers and 
businesses, 3 p.m., SD–226. 

December 4, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine 
the nominations of Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, 
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh 
Circuit, Fernando L. Aenlle-Rocha, to be United States 
District Judge for the Central District of California, John 
Charles Hinderaker, to be United States District Judge 
for the District of Arizona, Joshua M. Kindred, to be 
United States District Judge for the District of Alaska, 
Scott H. Rash, to be United States District Judge for the 
District of Arizona, and Matthew Thomas Schelp, to be 


December 2, 2019 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1309 

United States District Judge for the Eastern District of 
Missouri, 10 a.m., SD–226. 

Select Committee on Intelligence: December 3, to receive a 
closed briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., 
SH–219. 

December 5, Full Committee, to receive a closed briefing 
on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219. 

House Committees 

Committee on Armed Services, December 5, Subcommittee 
on Readiness, hearing entitled ‘‘Privatized Housing: Are 
Conditions Improving for Our Military Families?’’, 1 
p.m., 2118 Rayburn. 

December 5, Subcommittee on Military Personnel, 
hearing entitled ‘‘Military Health System Reform: A Cure 
for Efficiency and Readiness?’’, 2 p.m., 2212 Rayburn. 

Committee on Education and Labor, December 4, Full 
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Growing Up in Fear: How 
the Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies Are 
Harming Children’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn. 

Committee on Energy and Commerce, December 4, Subcommittee 
on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Building Consumer 
Confidence by Empowering FDA to Improve Cosmetic 
Safety’’, 10 a.m., 2322 Rayburn. 

December 4, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, 
hearing entitled ‘‘Flu Season: U.S. Public 
Health Preparedness and Response’’, 10:30 a.m., 2123 
Rayburn. 

December 5, Subcommittee on Communications and 
Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘Accountability and Oversight 
of the Federal Communications Commission’’, 10 
a.m., 2123 Rayburn. 

December 5, Subcommittee on Environment and Climate 
Change, hearing entitled ‘‘Building a 100 Percent 
Clean Economy: Solutions for Economy-Wide Deep 
Decarbonization’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn. 

Committee on Financial Services, December 4, Full Committee, 
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of Prudential Regulators: 
Ensuring the Safety, Soundness, Diversity, and Accountability 
of Depository Institutions?’’, 10 a.m., 2128 
Rayburn. 

December 5, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Promoting 
Financial Stability? Reviewing the Administration’s 
Deregulatory Approach to Financial Stability’’, 10 
a.m., 2128 Rayburn. 

December 5, Subcommittee on Housing, Community 
Development, and Insurance, hearing entitled ‘‘An Examination 
of the Federal Housing Administration and Its 
Impact on Homeownership in America’’, 2 p.m., 2128 
Rayburn. 

December 6, Task Force on Artificial Intelligence, 
hearing entitled ‘‘Robots on Wall Street: The Impact of 
AI on Capital Markets and Jobs in the Financial Services 
Industry’’, 9:30 a.m., 2128 Rayburn. 

Committee on Foreign Affairs, December 4, Full Committee, 
hearing entitled ‘‘The Importance of the New 
START Treaty’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn. 

Committee on the Judiciary, December 4, Full Committee, 
hearing entitled ‘‘The Impeachment Inquiry into 
President Donald J. Trump: Constitutional Grounds for 
Presidential Impeachment’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth. 

Committee on Natural Resources, December 4, Subcommittee 
on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, 
hearing on H.R. 722, the ‘‘Miracle Mountain Designation 
Act’’; H.R. 1702, the ‘‘Free Veterans from Fees Act’’; 

H.R. 2317, the ‘‘Peter J. McGuire Labor Day Landmark 
Act’’; H.R. 3094, to designate the National Pulse Memorial 
located at 1912 South Orange Avenue, Orlando, Florida, 
32806, and for other purposes; H.R. 3349, the ‘‘Republic 
of Texas Legation Memorial Act’’; H.R. 3465, the 
‘‘Fallen Journalists Memorial Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 
5068, the ‘‘Women Who Worked on the Home Front 
Commemorative Work Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth. 
December 4, Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of 
the United States, hearing on H.R. 1964, the ‘‘Lumbee 
Recognition Act’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth. 

Committee on Oversight and Reform, December 4, Subcommittee 
on Economic and Consumer Policy, hearing 
entitled ‘‘Broken Promises: Examining the Administration’s 
Retreat on Banning Vaping Flavors’’, 2 p.m., 2154 
Rayburn. 

Committee on Rules, December 4, Full Committee, hearing 
on H.R. 4, the ‘‘Voting Rights Advancement Act of 
2019’’, 5 p.m., H–313 Capitol. 

Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, December 4, 
Subcommittee on Research and Technology; and Subcommittee 
on Environment, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Calm 
Before the Storm: Reauthorizing the National Windstorm 
Impact Reduction Program’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn. 

December 5, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Experts 
Needed: Options for Improved Science and Technology 
Advice for Congress’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn. 

Committee on Small Business, December 4, Full Committee, 
hearing entitled ‘‘Embracing Corporate Social Responsibility: 
Small Business Best Practices’’, 11:30 a.m., 
2360 Rayburn. 

Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, December 
5, Subcommittee on Highways and Transit; and Subcommittee 
on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials, 
joint hearing entitled ‘‘Where’s My Stuff? Examining 
the Economic, Environmental, and Societal Impacts 
of Freight Transportation’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn. 

Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, December 5, Subcommittee 
on Oversight and Investigations; and Subcommittee 
on Technology Modernization, joint hearing 
entitled ‘‘The Status of the Department of Veterans Affairs’ 
Financial Management Business Transformation’’, 10 
a.m., HVC–210. 

December 5, Full Committee, markup on pending legislation, 
2 p.m., HVC–210. 

Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, December 
5, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Rules and Procedures 
in the U.S. House of Representatives: A Look at 
Reform Efforts and State Best Practices’’, 2 p.m., 210 
Cannon. 


D1310 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 2, 2019 

Joint Meetings December 5, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine 
public diplomacy, democracy, and global leader-

Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Decem


ship, 10 a.m., Room to be announced.

ber 3, to receive a briefing on Balkan recovery, focusing 
on corruption, 2 p.m., 210, Cannon Building. 


December 2, 2019 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1311 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 3 through November 30, 2019 

Senate House Total 
Days in session .................................... 170 173 . . 
Time in session ................................... 864 hrs., 54' 698 hrs., 53' .. 
Congressional Record: 
Pages of proceedings ................... 6,779 9,186 . . 
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 1,517 . . 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 22 51 73 
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . . 
Bills in conference ............................... 1 1 . . 
Measures passed, total ......................... 459 568 1,027 
Senate bills .................................. 89 25 . . 
House bills .................................. 66 384 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 24 5 . . 
House joint resolutions ............... 4 8 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 12 5 . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... 10 13 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 254 128 . . 
Measures reported, total ...................... *257 308 565 
Senate bills .................................. 186 . . . . 
House bills .................................. 29 255 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . . 
House joint resolutions ............... . . 1 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 3 . . . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 39 50 . . 
Special reports ..................................... 20 8 . . 
Conference reports ............................... 1 1 . . 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 205 98 . . 
Measures introduced, total .................. 3,491 6,156 9,647 
Bills ............................................. 2,958 5,265 . . 
Joint resolutions .......................... 60 79 . . 
Concurrent resolutions ................ 29 77 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 444 735 . . 
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 1 . . 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 366 290 . . 
Recorded votes .................................... . . 351 . . 
Bills vetoed ......................................... 5 1 . . 
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . . 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 162 written reports have been filed in the Senate, 
317 reports have been filed in the House. 
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 3 through November 30, 2019 
Civilian nominees, totaling 529, disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 295 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 214 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 20 

Other Civilian nominees, totaling 1,311, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,008 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 302 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1 

Air Force nominees, totaling 5,979, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 5,847 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 132 

Army nominees, totaling 6,569, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 6,550 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 19 

Navy nominees, totaling 4,616, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 4,611 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 5 

Marine Corps nominees, totaling 1,432, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,429 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 3 

Summary 

Total nominees carried over from the First Session ............................... 0 
Total nominees received this Session ..................................................... 20,436 
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 19,740 
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 675 
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 21 
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0 


D1312 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 2, 2019 

Next Meeting of the SENATE Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
10 a.m., Tuesday, December 3 2 p.m., Tuesday, December 3 

Senate Chamber House Chamber 
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-Program for Tuesday: To be announced. 
ation of the nomination of Eric Ross Komitee, to be 
United States District Judge for the Eastern District of 
New York, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation thereon 
at 11:45 a.m. 
Following disposition of the nomination of Eric Ross 
Komitee, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke cloture 
on the nomination of John L. Sinatra, Jr., to be 
United States District Judge for the Western District of 
New York. 
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their 
respective party conferences.) 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage 
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House 
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are 
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United 
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when 
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through 
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the 
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. 
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S. 
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO 
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made 
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following 
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents 
in individual parts or by sets. ¶With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from 
the Congressional Record. 
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received. 


