UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.04.15 15:35:12 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 114th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 161 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015 No. 143 

House of Representatives 

The House met at 9 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Speaker. 

f 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick 

J. Conroy, offered the following prayer: 
Almighty God, we give You thanks 
for giving us another day. 
We pray for the gift of wisdom to all 
with great responsibility in this people’s 
House for the leadership of our 
Nation. 

Along with millions of men and 
women around the world, we join in 
praying for those in leadership in our 
world. Those You have entrusted to 
lead in local and national governments 
in this Nation and all the nations of 
the world, guide them, Lord, with wisdom 
and truth. 

May they seek You in the decisions 
they make and in the way they live. In 
praying for them, we are also reminded 
to pray this morning for those on life’s 
margins who are affected by extreme 
poverty, poor health care, polluted and 
diseased water, unjust societies, division 
and terror, and those who do not 
have the opportunity to receive a quality 
education. 

Lord, the suffering of our world is all 
around us. Stimulate our hearts and 
minds so that everything we may do 
this day would be for Your greater 
honor and glory. 

Amen. 

f 

THE JOURNAL 

The SPEAKER. The Chair has examined 
the Journal of the last day’s proceedings 
and announces to the House 
his approval thereof. 

Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Journal 
stands approved. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman 
from Oklahoma (Mr. BRIDENSTINE) 

come forward and lead the House in the 
Pledge of Allegiance. 

Mr. BRIDENSTINE led the Pledge of 
Allegiance as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 

The SPEAKER. The Chair will entertain 
up to five requests for 1-minute 
speeches on each side of the aisle. 

f 

GHIDOTTI HIGH NATIONAL BLUE 
RIBBON SCHOOL 

(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to congratulate William and 
Mary Ghidotti High School in Grass 
Valley for being one of the 335 schools 
to be recognized as a National Blue 
Ribbon School this year. 

First established by President 
Reagan in 1982, the Blue Ribbon 
Schools program recognizes excellence 
in K–12 public and private schools who 
demonstrate a commitment to closing 
achievement gaps among student subgroups. 


This award is certainly fitting for 
Ghidotti. As a small school in Nevada 
County in northern California, with an 
emphasis on personalized learning, students 
are challenged daily to excel in 
leadership, technology, and critical 
thinking, helping them prepare to be 
college and career ready. 

To the students, teachers, and administrators: 
Congratulations on this 
distinct honor and thank you for your 
work in setting the standard of excellence 
in education for our students in 
northern California. 

END THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON 
BENGHAZI 

(Mr. KILDEE asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, in a FOX 
News interview yesterday, the Republican 
speaker-in-waiting admitted to 
something that we have all known all 
along, and that is that the real motive 
of the Select Committee on Benghazi 
was simply to politically attack and 
drive down the poll numbers for Hillary 
Clinton, spending millions of taxpayer 
dollars for a political mission. 

And, unbelievably, the speaker-in-
waiting mentioned this in response to a 
question as to what were the accomplishments 
of the Republican Congress, 
the accomplishments of this Congress. 
The number one accomplishment that 
he came up with was to use taxpayer 
dollars to create a committee for the 
specific purpose of affecting the Presidential 
campaign and driving down the 
polling numbers of a Democratic candidate. 


Is that your job when it took until 
yesterday to get a budget for just 2 
months to the floor of this House, but 
you spend millions of dollars, thousands 
of hours, specifically for the purposes 
of driving down the polling numbers 
of a Presidential candidate in the 
Democratic Party? 

Give me a break. This has gone too 
far. Something needs to change in this 
House of Representatives. 

f 

CONGRATULATING COLONEL DAVE 
‘‘CHEESE’’ BURGY 

(Mr. BRIDENSTINE asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. BRIDENSTINE. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise to congratulate Colonel Dave 
‘‘Cheese’’ Burgy on his outstanding 

b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 

. 
H6751 


H6752 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

leadership as commander of the Oklahoma 
Air National Guard’s 138th Fighter 
Wing located at the Tulsa Air National 
Guard Base. He relinquishes 
command this Saturday. 

Colonel Burgy received his Air Force 
ROTC commission at Arizona State 
University. He transitioned to the 
Oklahoma National Guard as a C–26 inspector 
pilot before retraining in the 
F–16. Colonel Burgy has logged over 
3,800 military flight hours and deployed 
five times to fight our Nation’s wars. 

As the 138th commander since December 
2012, Colonel Burgy led the Air 
National Guard’s best fighter wing of 
over 1,200 airmen. He exemplifies the 
self-sacrifice and patriotism of the citizen 
warriors in the National Guard. 

Colonel Burgy, thank you for your 
outstanding service to the 138th, the 
National Guard, and our country. 

f 

SELECT COMMITTEE ON BENGHAZI 
(Mr. ELLISON asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, we always 
knew that KEVIN MCCARTHY and 
the Republican Caucus had gotten together 
to set up this Benghazi task 
force in order to do a political stunt, 
but I never thought they would admit 
it. I was shocked. 
I mean, could you imagine me or any 
Member of this House setting up a $4.5 
million task force for the sole purpose 
of electioneering? Everyone in that 
task force, every staffer, was essentially 
a campaign staffer and, yet, paid 
for with government money to impact 
a Presidential election. 
This is a scandal, people. I cannot believe 
what I heard. We all knew it was 
going on, but we couldn’t prove it. Now 
it is documentary proof in front of literally 
millions of Americans, bragged 
about and set out as: Yeah. We did it, 
and it is an achievement we are proud 
of. 
Now, if one Member were to use their 
Congressional office to campaign, that 
would be an ethics complaint. What if 
a whole caucus does it? 

f 

FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 

JAMES A. LOVELL FEDERAL 

HEALTH CARE CENTER 

(Mr. DOLD asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. DOLD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to extend my congratulations to the 
Captain James A. Lovell Federal 
Health Care Center on its 5-year anniversary. 


The Lovell Federal Health Center is 
the Nation’s first and only integrated 
Department of Veterans Affairs and 
Department of Defense medical center. 
In just 5 years, the Center has demonstrated 
the merits of combining two 
different healthcare systems. 

Through hard work and dedication, 
the Lovell staff has shown that one 

healthcare facility can annually provide 
excellent care to over 90,000 military 
personnel, their families, military 
retirees, and veterans. 

I would like to personally congratulate 
Director Stephan Holt and Deputy 
Director Navy Captain Bob Buckley. 
Their vision and enthusiasm facilitated 
the integration tremendously. 

I look forward to celebrating many 
more anniversaries of the Lovell Federal 
Health Care Center, and I would 
like to again congratulate and thank 
them for their hard work on behalf of 
our veterans and military personnel. 

f 

HANFORD LAND TRANSFER 

(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
to recognize a significant milestone in 
Richland, Kennewick, and Pasco, 
Washington. 

While the Tri-Cities led the way in 
ending World War II and the cold war 
and was very proud to do so, the Federal 
Government has a legal and moral 
obligation to clean up the legacy nuclear 
waste at Hanford. This week we 
celebrate a cleanup milestone and the 
transfer of more than 1,600 acres of 
land back to these communities. 

This transfer represents the culmination 
of years of local efforts as well as 
bipartisan, bicameral cooperation. I 
commend the work of Doc Hastings and 
Senators MURRAY and CANTWELL that 
laid the groundwork for this achievement. 


As Hanford’s cleanup mission is completed, 
this unneeded Federal land 
should continue to be returned to the 
local community for the goals of conservation, 
preservation, public access, 
and economic development to be 
achieved. 

This long anticipated land transfer 
will be used for industrial and energy 
production and creates jobs and boosts 
economic development in the mid-Columbia 
region. This week’s transfer is 
an exciting step for the post-Hanford 
future. I will continue to work with all 
parties to have more land returned to 
the community. 

f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
DOLD). Pursuant to clause 4 of rule I, 
the following enrolled bill was signed 
by the Speaker on Wednesday, September 
30, 2015: 

H.R. 719, to require the Transportation 
Security Administration to conform 
to existing Federal law and regulations 
regarding criminal investigator 
positions, and for other purposes. 
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF H.R. 3457, JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS 
OF IRANIAN TERRORISM 
ACT; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF CONFERENCE REPORT 
ON H.R. 1735, NATIONAL DEFENSE 
AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL 
YEAR 2016; AND PROVIDING 
FOR CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS 
TO SUSPEND THE RULES 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, by direction 
of the Committee on Rules, I call 
up House Resolution 449 and ask for its 
immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows: 
H. RES. 449 
Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution 
it shall be in order to consider in the 
House the bill (H.R. 3457) to prohibit the lifting 
of sanctions on Iran until the Government 
of Iran pays the judgments against it 
for acts of terrorism, and for other purposes. 
All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. The amendment in the 
nature of a substitute printed in the report 
of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution shall be considered as adopted. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against provisions 
in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered 
on the bill, as amended, and on any 
further amendment thereto, to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; and (2) 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions. 
SEC. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution it 
shall be in order to consider the conference 
report to accompany the bill (H.R. 1735) to 
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2016 
for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for 
defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against the conference 
report and against its consideration 
are waived. The conference report shall be 
considered as read. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the conference 
report to its adoption without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate; 
and (2) one motion to recommit if applicable. 
SEC. 3. It shall be in order at any time on 
the legislative day of October 1, 2015, for the 
Speaker to entertain motions that the House 
suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of 
rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall 
consult with the Minority Leader or her designee 
on the designation of any matter for 
consideration pursuant to this section. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Alabama is recognized for 
1 hour. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, for the 
purpose of debate only, I yield the customary 
30 minutes to the gentleman 
from Colorado (Mr. POLIS), pending 
which I yield myself such time as I 
may consume. During consideration of 
this resolution, all time yielded is for 
the purpose of debate only. 

b 0915 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend 
their remarks. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6753 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Alabama? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 
449 provides a rule for the consideration 
of H.R. 3457, the Justice for 
Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act, and 
the conference report to accompany 

H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016. 
Mr. Speaker, these two bills are directly 
related to one of the most important 
functions of Congress, which is 
to provide for the national security of 
our country. For 53 straight years, 
Congress has come together in a bipartisan 
fashion to pass a National Defense 
Authorization Act to ensure that 
our military men and women have the 
resources and the policies they need to 
do their job. Even in an era of deep partisanship 
in Congress, we have still 
been able to keep the tradition alive 
and pass an NDAA each year. This rule 
would allow us to keep that tradition 
alive. 

The NDAA process has been a great 
example of following regular order and 
doing congressional business the way it 
is supposed to be done. In both the 
House and the Senate, the respective 
Armed Services Committees held multiple 
hearings and markups that allowed 
all Members to have a role in the 
process. 

Here in the House, the NDAA came 
up for a vote on the floor with a record 
number of amendments—135, to be 
exact. It passed with bipartisan support 
by a vote of 269–151. The Senate 
followed a very similar process and was 
able to approve their version of the bill 
by a vote of 71–125, a veto-proof majority. 


Since our bills were different, the 
last few months have been spent in a 
conference committee to iron out the 
differences. The bill doesn’t include everything 
I would like, but it is the true 
definition of a bipartisan collaborative 
work product. This NDAA is a textbook 
example of how Congress should work. 

Despite all of that, I am shocked to 
learn that some of my colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle are not supporting 
this critical legislation. Even 
worse, the President has threatened to 
veto this bill. 

Mr. Speaker, let’s take a quick look 
at what is going on in the world today. 
North Korea is trying to develop an 
ability to deliver a nuclear warhead to 
our allies in South Korea and to other 
places. China is building new islands in 
the western Pacific and daring America 
to come into what they now claim is 
their new sea space and airspace. Russia 
has pushed into Crimea, is consolidating 
its gains in the Donbass; Iran 
has just now been given the ability to 
get a nuclear weapon; ISIS and other 
terrorist groups are running wild in the 
area that used to be Syria, Iraq, 
Yemen, and Libya. Now we have Russia 
coming into that same area in Syria 
and using their jets for military purposes 
and daring us to get in those 
skies with them. 

In the middle of all of this, we should 
be having a bipartisan, unified front to 
tell the world, to tell our adversaries, 
to tell our allies, and to tell our service 
men and women that we are united. 
There is no Republican, there is no 
Democrat when it comes to the defense 
policy of this country. 

Instead, we are going to have a debate 
not about the defense policy of 
our country, but about whether we are 
going to fund other functions of government, 
whether we are going to fund 
the IRS at a high level that the President 
wants, whether we are going to 
fund the Environmental Protection 
Agency that is attacking businesses 
across this country. We are going to 
talk about all those domestic issues 
and not talk about the defense of the 
country at this critical juncture. 

If there ever was a time when we 
should continue that tradition of 
standing together, it would be today. 
And for our President, our Commander 
in Chief, to threaten to veto this bipartisan 
bill is simply beyond belief. 

Now, I expect my friend from Colorado 
will argue that they oppose this 
bill because we should be spending 
more money on nondefense programs, 
and that is a debate worth having, but 
this is not the time for that debate. 
There is nothing more important for us 
to do today than to make sure that we 
are standing tall and standing unified 
for the defense of our country, and we 
should never ever use the military as a 
pawn in some political game to increase 
controversial nondefense spending. 


Today’s debate should be about providing 
for our Nation’s military men 
and women and their families, and I 
hope my colleagues and the President 
will reconsider their objections. 

This rule also provides for consideration 
of H.R. 3457, the Justice for Victims 
of Iranian Terrorism Act. 

A lot has been said on this floor recently 
about the threat and dangers 
posed to the United States and our allies 
by the Islamic Republic of Iran. I 
don’t want to rehash that debate, but I 
do think it is important to remember 
that Iran is the top state sponsor of 
terrorism on the globe. 

Over the past 15 years, more than 80 
judgments have been handed down 
against Iran under the Foreign Sovereign 
Immunities Act exception for 
state sponsors of terrorism. These 
judgments add up to over $43.5 billion 
in unpaid damages. This straightforward 
bill would simply require Iran 
to pay each of these Federal court 
judgments before the President can 
lift, waive, or suspend any sanctions 
currently in place against Iran. Let me 
briefly highlight a few examples of 
these judgments. 

In 1985, a Navy petty officer named 
Robert Stethem was killed during the 
hijacking of TWA flight 847. Hezbollah, 
an Iran-financed terrorist organization, 
was found responsible for the hijacking 
and his family is now owed $329 million, 
and that is in a Federal court 
judgment. 

My friend from Colorado might be 
particularly interested in this one. 
Thomas Sutherland, a teacher at Colorado 
State University for 26 years, was 
the former dean of agriculture at the 
American University of Beirut. He was 
kidnapped on June 9, 1985, after Iran directed 
terrorists to kidnap Americans 
in Lebanon. He was held in prison until 
November 18, 1991. His judgment is for 
$323.5 million. 

There is the story of Alan Beer, an 
American living in Israel who was tragically 
killed after the Iranian-backed 
terrorist organization Hamas blew up a 
bus in Jerusalem. There is a $300 million 
judgment against Iran for Alan’s 
death. 

These are just a few stories of Americans 
who have been tragically injured, 
killed, tortured, and kidnapped by Iranian-
sponsored terrorist organizations. 

I simply can’t understand why some 
of my colleagues and the President 
won’t support this bill. This shouldn’t 
be a partisan debate. American courts 
have already ruled that Iran owes 
money to these individuals and their 
families, citizens of the United States. 
So why is it controversial to require 
that these payments are made before 
rewarding Iran with billions of dollars 
in sanctions relief? 

This bill is really pretty simple to 
me. You can either stand with American 
citizens or you can stand with the 
Islamic Republic of Iran. You can stand 
with the Ayatollah or the families of 
servicemembers who were killed by 
Iran-backed terrorists. To me, this is 
an obvious choice. 

Mr. Speaker, both of these bills are 
more than deserving of broad, bipartisan 
support, and I hope that they receive 
just that. So I urge my colleagues 
to support this rule. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
gentleman from Alabama for yielding 
me 30 minutes, and I yield myself such 
time as I may consume. 

(Mr. POLIS asked and was given permission 
to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition 
today to this rule and to both 
of the underlying bills. 

Both of these bills, the conference report 
to accompany the annual National 
Defense Authorization Act and the so-
called Justice for Victims of Iranian 
Terrorism Act, are simply partisan political 
charades. They are not a serious 
effort at the lawmaking process. They 
are not a serious effort at improving 
our national defense, nor do they even 
attempt to solve the problems that the 
American people want this Congress to 
take up. 

I would first like to acknowledge 
that at least these two bills are somewhat 
related under this rule. In the 
past, we have had bills in vastly disparate 
areas. 

A couple of points about these bills: 

The National Defense Authorization 
bill is not a version of the bill that is 
going anywhere. It contorts the budget 


H6754 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

process in a way that doesn’t make 
sense to anybody. It doesn’t make 
sense to budget hawks or defense 
hawks, and it is a way that many Members 
of the majority party don’t even 
seem to understand. 

Neither bill will be signed into law. 
The President has indicated he will 
veto them, nor will consideration of 
them today here on the floor of the 
House advance national security one 
iota. 

Even after knowing the budget plans 
on National Defense Authorization for 
months, here we have a convoluted bill 
that won’t make us any safer or financially 
secure. What it does is it takes 
the emergency account, the overseas 
contingency operations fund, and turns 
it into a slush fund to temporarily fund 
all kinds of other programs. So effectively, 
it is a deficit spending bill by 
fudging the different pots of money 
that we have for defense. 

Now, I should point out this doesn’t 
even appeal to the Pentagon or to the 
military. The Pentagon strongly dislikes 
this plan of using overseas contingency 
money to fund items in the 
base budget. 

So the question I pose, Mr. Speaker, 
is, if it is not being done to satisfy defense 
hawks and the Pentagon and it is 
not being done to satisfy budget hawks 
because it is an increased spending proposal, 
who is the constituency for this 
and why are people even proposing 
this? 

Now, it is completely fiscally irresponsible 
to disregard budget caps in a 
way that anybody who cares about our 
deficit should find maddening, and it is 
why so many of our colleagues on the 
majority, from what we have heard, 
had to be pushed to even go along with 
this highly flawed plan 

As I mentioned, it doesn’t make 
sense to the defense hawk contingency 
in this body either. The Pentagon does 
not like the plan. Using short-term 
money for base funding and long-term 
problems makes planning and procurement 
nearly impossible on the ground. 
This budget plan hurts national security, 
and it damages our fiscal responsibility 
in our country. 

Like many bills, it is simply not 
going anywhere. The President said he 
opposes a version of the NDAA with 
this budget gimmick in it. 

Congress, of course, needs to pass a 
National Defense Authorization bill. 
Unfortunately, the time that we are 
spending on this today gets us no closer. 


Passing a National Defense Authorization 
Act is very important, and it 
seems like an obvious and routine 
thing to do; but with this Congress, 
nothing is surprising. Even routine 
matters are made infinitely more difficult 
as we jump through these self-
created hoops to appeal to whoever is 
yelling loudest at the time, and that 
seems to be what we are doing today on 
the floor of this body is turning our national 
defense into a political football 
and missing yet another opportunity to 

provide the stability that our national 
defense needs to defend our country. 

Now, this could have been an opportunity 
to address what voters want us 
to address. We could have talked about 
an Authorization for Use of Military 
Force. I have heard from so many of 
my constituents regarding that. 

We could be talking about the fact 
that just yesterday Russia is supposedly 
bombing targets in Syria in 
support of Assad, and we have been 
conducting military operations in that 
part of the world for over a year without 
a specific Authorization for Use of 
Military Force. 

We could have talked about Guantanamo 
Bay and how we can approach finally 
leaving that chapter behind and 
closing down our extra-legal detention 
facility there. 

We could have debated how we can 
save money by right-sizing our massive 
nuclear arsenal that would allow us to 
blow up the world several times over to 
meet our needs here in the 21st century. 
Perhaps being able to blow up the 
world once might be enough for our nuclear 
arsenal, and that would save a lot 
of money that we could reduce the deficit 
with. 

Instead, this bill would have us spend 
billions upon billions of dollars, reassign 
money to a slush fund, blow 
through budget caps that we put in 
place to reduce the deficit in support of 
a war we have never debated, never 
voted on, and in support of a failed policy 
in continuing to fight wars that we 
have not approved and the military arsenal 
that was meant to fight a cold 
war which ended decades ago. 

This is simply a charade that does 
not advance our national security, and 
I urge my colleagues to reject it. 

The other bill under consideration is 
another charade. It is another symbol 
of the failure of this body to take up 
the issues that matter to the American 
people. It is a bill, as we talked about 
in our Rules Committee, that had zero 
hearings, no markup, no amendments, 
and was rushed to the floor for unknown 
reasons. This bill serves as 
nothing more than another attempt to 
undermine the agreement that prevents 
Iran from developing nuclear 
weapons. 

Now, Members on my side of the aisle 
were on varied sides of that Iran agreement. 
Some felt that the agreement 
was the best way to prevent Iran from 
developing nuclear weapons. Others 
felt that there were other ways. But 
nearly everybody on my side agrees 
that this bill is simply a terrible idea. 

b 0930 
Now we are in the stage of implementing 
the Iran Nuclear Review Act, 
consistent with the agreement that 
was reached to prevent Iran from developing 
nuclear weapons. If we want 
to advance national security, let’s have 
a discussion about how to enforce the 
agreement to prevent Iran from developing 
nuclear weapons. 
If there is a problem with the compensation 
of victims of state terrorism, 

we should have a broad bipartisan bill 
that addresses that. Iran is one of the 
countries, but there are certainly other 
sponsors of state terrorism; and if 
there is a problem collecting court 
judgments, let’s add some teeth to that 
in a bipartisan proposal to do that 
rather than attach it to sanctions that 
were put in place for the specific purpose 
of deterring Iran from developing 
nuclear weapons. 

Congress said that was the purpose of 
those sanctions. They were part of that 
discussion for Iran to open themselves 
up to inspections and agree not to develop 
nuclear weapons. This is a separate 
and legitimate issue that there are 
judgments against Iran that are not 
being enforced. 

There are probably judgments 
against a number of other nation-
states that are not being enforced. 
That is a perfectly fine issue and one 
that there is no reason in the world for 
it to be partisan. We should have a 
thoughtful, deliberative process with 
hearings and markup in committee 
with the opportunity to take good 
ideas from both sides and simply address 
that problem to make sure that 
we add some teeth to the ability to 
make sure that payments are made to 
victims of terrorism, a concept that 
this bill wouldn’t even come close to 
accomplishing. 

This bill adds no teeth to making 
sure that terrorist victims actually get 
their money. It merely tries to reinstate 
sanctions that are tied to the development 
of Iran’s nuclear problem. It 
makes it no more likely that a single 
victim of terrorism will ever see any 
kind of restitution. 

Now, if we are serious about national 
defense, what in the world have we 
been doing the last few days? Because 
of this body’s inaction in maintaining 
government funding, you know what 
the Pentagon has been doing the last 
few days? They have been focused on 
planning for a shutdown, because we 
were just hours away from a shutdown 
when finally this body figured out how 
to continue funding national defense. 
We should have done that weeks ago. 

Why did we put the Pentagon 
through the exercise these last few 
days of figuring out who had to go 
home and what missions had to be 
grounded? Do you think ISIS or Moscow 
or the Assad regime spent yesterday 
wondering if they would have the 
money when they showed up for work 
today? Well, that is what this Congress 
has done to our military and risks 
doing again in December when we face 
another government shutdown. We 
might as well be telling our generals: 
‘‘Okay, keep doing what you are doing, 
but don’t make any plans to combat 
ISIS on December 12.’’ 

Well done, Congress. I am sure America 
and the rest of the world is impressed 
with your work. 

It is completely incongruous to be 
discussing a budget trick for defense 
authorization just a day after we 
risked closing down many parts of our 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6755 

military. Just yesterday, 151 Republicans 
voted to shut down the Pentagon 
and the military. They voted to shut 
down the Department of Homeland Security. 
They voted to shut down the 
State Department just because they 
couldn’t get their way on an unrelated 
healthcare provision for low-income 
women. Now, suddenly, the Republicans 
support national security? I 
don’t think so. 

I urge my colleagues to reject this 
rule and both of the underlying bills. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

The gentleman from Colorado made 
some interesting points. He said this is 
not serious, that the President is going 
to veto it. If we go back over the vote 
total in the Senate, this bill was passed 
in the Senate by a veto-proof majority. 
It passed in this House by a near veto-
proof majority. If a couple more people 
from the other side will join with us, 
we can override that veto, and we 
would stand united behind our servicemen 
and -women. So it is, indeed, serious. 
If the President were serious, he 
wouldn’t be threatening a veto. He 
would understand the importance at 
this point in time for the Congress and 
the President to stand together across 
party lines. 

We also heard about what is happening 
in Syria. I am a member of the 
House Armed Services Committee. I 
served on the conference committee 
that brought this report to us. Let me 
assure you, Mr. Speaker, this bill contains 
things that are critical to what 
we are doing in Syria. 

He talked about Guantanamo Bay. 
One of the main items that I was appointed 
to the conference committee 
for was for the provision that regards 
Guantanamo Bay and what we are 
going to do and not do with the prisoners 
there. He talked about the military’s 
view of this. I have talked to 
dozens of generals and admirals about 
this very issue, and they would like for 
us to find a different way, but they understand 
and agree that this way gets 
us where we need to go. What is important 
to them is really not which way 
we get there but the fact that we get 
there. This gets us there. 

He talks about the fact that there is 
a failed policy here. There is a failed 
policy here. It is a failed policy of this 
administration in the Middle East. If 
we had done what we should have done 
in the Middle East, we wouldn’t have 
Iran nuclearized. We wouldn’t have 
Russia there flying sorties with their 
jets and daring the United States. The 
failure of policy here is the failure of 
the policy of the President of the 
United States. 

The House Armed Services Committee, 
the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, Democrats and Republicans 
from both sides here have tried 
to work together to give the President 
the authorization he needed to do the 
right thing, to make sure we don’t 

have the instability we have today in 
the Middle East. Instead, we have seen 
a President that seems to be inert, 
doing nothing. Russia comes in, makes 
this big play. What is the President 
doing? Nothing. 

We were asked this time last year to 
authorize the training of certain Syrian 
troops to combat ISIS. Well, they 
trained 50-some-odd. We have about six 
left. After all that, a year, all this 
time, all this money, that is what the 
failed policy is. The whole idea was not 
going to work, but we gave him the authorization 
because we are trying to 
stand behind our President. We are trying 
to push him to do the right thing. 
Still, nothing happens, except he 
threatens to veto this bill. 

If he wants to be the Commander in 
Chief that we need, he needs to stand 
with us. He needs to stand with the 
Congress. We need to stand together as 
Republicans and Democrats—we support 
our men and women in uniform— 
and do what needs to be done. 

Now, my friend from Colorado referenced 
the Iran bill and called it a 
charade. Let me assure him, this is not 
a charade to the people who have these 
judgments. To the people who are victims 
or the families of victims, this is 
far from a charade. This will get them 
real compensation. 

He says that there are no teeth here. 
Well, guess what. The sanctions don’t 
get lifted unless Iran pays this money. 
I call that real teeth, because Iran 
wants that money more than anything 
else in the world right now because, 
with that money, they will go out and 
fund terrorism throughout the Middle 
East. 

What we will do here is not only get 
money to American people who have 
been victimized, but we will deny that 
money to Iran that will use it to fund 
Hamas and Hezbollah and the Houthis 
in Yemen. That is what this is all 
about. This is dead serious. This is as 
serious as you can possibly get. I wish 
my colleagues on the other side of the 
aisle would come together with us so 
we can do right by the American military 
and the men and women that wear 
our uniform and do right by American 
citizens who have been victimized by 
the largest sponsor of state terrorism. 

I have said this before, and I am 
going to say it again, that Iran bill is 
real clear. You stand with the Ayatollah 
or you stand with the United 
States citizens. It is one or the other. 
If you stand with the Ayatollah, you 
stand with the Ayatollah. I am going 
to stand with the citizens of the United 
States that have these judgments. 
They deserve to be paid. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, if we defeat 
the previous question, I will offer an 
amendment to the rule to bring up legislation 
that would protect jobs in 
America to reauthorize the Export-Import 
Bank. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent 
to insert the text of my amend


ment in the RECORD along with extraneous 
material immediately prior to 
the vote on the previous question. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Colorado? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the distinguished gentleman 
from Michigan (Mr. KILDEE) to 
discuss our proposal to save American 
jobs. 

Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I urge my 
colleagues to join with me in defeating 
the previous question so that this body 
can immediately take up reauthorization 
of the Export-Import Bank and, in 
fact, immediately take up legislation 
offered by Mr. FINCHER, a Republican 
who, like many Republicans in this 
House and every Democrat, supports 
the reauthorization of an institution 
that has been reauthorized by this body 
for eight decades, routinely, that is essential 
to supporting small American 
manufacturers that I represent back 
home in Michigan. 

During the recess, I spent some time 
with my local manufacturers. I did a 
couple manufacturing roundtables; one 
in Flint, my hometown, and one up in 
the Tri-Cities. These are small manufacturers. 
They are not big companies. 
No one would recognize their names. 
They are small manufacturers that 
have found that they have products 
that the world wants, but they didn’t 
feel comfortable entering into that 
kind of global trade without some help, 
without some support, without their 
own government standing behind them 
where they can. That was what the Export-
Import Bank provided for them. 
They told me, without exception, that 
the failure of this Congress to reauthorize 
the Export-Import Bank puts 
that kind of trade in jeopardy, puts the 
company itself in jeopardy, and puts 
the workers who build great American 
products that we can sell to the world 
in a position of some jeopardy as well. 

We don’t agree on a lot of things in 
this body, and that is the way it is supposed 
to be; but when we do agree, the 
American people expect us to do something 
about it. We agree in this body 
on the Export-Import Bank, Democrats 
and Republicans. Why can’t we see a 
bill come to the floor to simply reauthorize 
something that is essential to 
supporting American manufacturers, 
supporting American exports, supporting 
American workers? 

Sadly, almost ironically, there are 
more Republicans in this Congress that 
support the Export-Import Bank than 
supported keeping the government 
open itself. You would think—you 
would think—that somehow we would 
figure out a way. 

There is all this talk of bipartisanship. 
It is just a word unless we do 
something about it. It doesn’t mean 
anything unless it translates to something 
that helps the American worker. 
Here is a chance to do that. We should 
bring up the Export-Import Bank reauthorization, 
a Republican bill, which I 


H6756 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

will vote for, and we should do it 
today. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I just observed 
that the gentleman from Michigan 
talked about something that had 
nothing to do with the defense of this 
country or getting these judgments 
paid for American citizens who were 
victims at the hands of Iran. What he 
is talking about may be important at a 
time down the road, but it is not relevant 
to what we are talking about 
today. 

The bipartisanship we need today is 
to stand up for the American people 
and defend the American people and to 
provide for our servicemen and 
-women, to make the victims of Iranian 
tyranny, make them whole. Let’s 
get together and be bipartisan about 
that, and maybe there will be more opportunities 
to be bipartisan about 
these other issues. Let’s not confuse 
what is on the floor today with what 
people want to talk about down the 
road. Let’s have a bipartisan majority, 
a big bipartisan majority, a veto-proof 
majority, pass both of these bills. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

Just to be clear, what we are offering 
as a previous question, if we win the 
previous question vote, this bill will 
then be amended and sent back to include 
a reauthorization of the Export-
Import Bank, so the Democrats are 
choosing to focus on protecting American 
jobs rather than partisan games. 

Unfortunately, I wish either of these 
two bills under this rule had something 
to do with national defense. They 
don’t. One of them diverts money from 
the overseas contingency fund to a 
slush fund, which the military says 
will weaken their ability to prepare for 
conflict around the world. The other 
one is another attempt to undermine a 
deal that prevents Iran from developing 
nuclear weapons and won’t lead 
to American victims seeing money. 

If they were serious about making 
sure American victims were compensated, 
we would be talking about 
putting teeth in the ability of American 
courts to impound assets and 
make sure that judgments are paid for 
victims of state terrorism. Why, instead, 
are we seeing a deal that relates 
only to one particular sponsor of state 
terrorism and deals with a set of tariffs 
that were put in place to prevent them 
from developing nuclear weapons? The 
tariffs that are in place with regard to 
Iranian sponsorship of state terrorism 
are still in place and weren’t even on 
the table during the discussions around 
the nuclear agreement. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Washington (Mr. 
HECK), who wants to discuss our 
amendment that will protect and save 
American jobs. 

Mr. HECK of Washington. Mr. Speaker, 
one of the previous speakers, the 
gentleman and my friend from Alabama, 
said today is not the time, it is 

not now. I want to remind him that in 
my effort here to defeat the previous 
question so that we may take up reauthorization 
of the Export-Import Bank, 
the charter for the Bank expired 3 
months ago yesterday. You are right, 
the time isn’t now; it was 3 months 
ago. The fact is, in the ensuing 90 days, 
there has begun a drumbeat of job loss, 
concrete and measurable. It is real. 

b 0945 
But I want to start over. Today is the 
first day of the new fiscal year for the 
Federal Government. We can all give 
at least some thanks that we avoided a 
government shutdown. So let’s take a 
fresh start to this thing. Take a step 
back. 
The truth is, when I am home in the 
district talking with people, an amazing 
number have a consciousness, an 
awareness, about the termination of 
the charter of the Export-Import Bank 
and its impact. The most frequently 
asked question I get is, ‘‘How can anybody 
do that?’’ 
How can anybody do away with an institution 
that, as my friend, the gentleman 
from Michigan, Congressman 
KILDEE, so eloquently said, has in 81 
years been almost unanimously reauthorized 
16 times by 13 different Presidents 
and has a track record of reducing 
the deficit and creating jobs? How 
can anybody do that? 
That is a very challenging question 
for me to answer. Adherence to ideological 
purity is just not something 
somebody can compete with when it 
stands up against the real-life job loss 
that we have begun to experience. 
So, in my effort—which I just digressed 
from—of taking a fresh start, I 
want to say that this Chamber will 
take up later today the National Defense 
Authorization Act. It is not unrelated 
to our effort to reauthorize the 
Export-Import Bank. 
Some people actually support what 
we call the NDAA because it creates 
jobs. I frankly don’t think that that is 
a good reason to support the NDAA. 
One should support or oppose it because 
of how it reinforces us and helps 
us fulfill our national security objectives 
and goals and missions. That is 
why you support or don’t support the 
NDAA. But some people do support it 
because of the jobs it helps create. 
Well, the truth of the matter is, as 
we have said so often, the Export-Import 
Bank also creates jobs. In fact, for 
the last year for which we have data, it 
supported 164,000 jobs. 
We have an existential threat to 
those jobs. The fact is, as you all have 
heard, both General Electric and The 
Boeing Company have announced layoffs 
directly attributable to the demise 
of the Export-Import Bank. People are 
not concluding negotiations for foreign 
sales as a consequence of us not having 
that arrow in our quiver. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 
Mr. POLIS. I yield the gentleman an 
additional 1 minute. 

Mr. HECK of Washington. Because 
the fact of the matter is the Chinese 
are developing a wide-body aircraft to 
compete in the international market, 
code name C919. They think it will be 
online in 2 years. I think it is more like 
10 years. 

They will take business away from 
us. When they do, they will take jobs 
away from us. And I remind you that 
China has not one, but four, export 
credit authorities. 

It is also a relevant issue to the subject 
we take up later today—the 
NDAA—because the truth of the matter 
is the Export-Import Bank helps 
protect the homeland very directly. 

There is a lot of talk about rebalancing 
the Pacific and Asia and the 
pivot. But the fact of the matter is, in 
order for us to compete with China, we 
have to retain the heart of our manufacturing 
base. 

And, frankly, the production of aircraft, 
in the aggregate, constitutes the 
largest concentration of engineers and 
manufacturing capacity within that 
base. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. POLIS. I yield the gentleman an 
additional 1 minute. 

Mr. HECK of Washington. This is 
vital to our national security. Imagine 
a world 20, 30, 40 years from now in 
which The Boeing Company no longer 
exists. I don’t want to imagine that future, 
but think of what it would it 
would do to our national security circumstance. 
It would be devastating to 
our national security. And we are 
ceding this territory. We are literally 
ceding this territory. 

The irony of this debate and why, 
again, I find it so challenging to answer 
the question of why would anybody 
do this is, truly, if we had never 
had an Export-Import Bank, we would 
all be sitting around asking ourselves, 
‘‘How do we compete with those other 
countries, all of whom have export 
credit authorities?’’ 

We would be devising and standing up 
an Export-Import Bank and we would 
say, ‘‘What do we want that to look 
like?’’ First of all, we want it to support 
American jobs. Secondly, we 
would say we want it to protect American 
taxpayers and not have them on 
the hook. Well, guess what, my friends. 
We already have—or had—that institution. 


The Export-Import Bank in the last 
generation has transferred billions of 
dollars to the Treasury and reduced the 
deficit. The Export-Import Bank has 
helped create and support millions of 
jobs. 

If you want to compete in the global 
economy, you need an export credit authority 
that creates jobs. Please defeat 
the previous question and take up the 
issue of reauthorization of the Export-
Import Bank. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

I appreciate the words of my good 
friend from the State of Washington, 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6757 

my co-chair for the Singapore Caucus. 
I know that he feels those words deeply. 
I agree with him that manufacturing 
is very important to this country. 


Manufacturing aircraft is very important 
to my district. We just opened 
up 3 weeks ago an Airbus facility that 
will make competing aircraft against 
Boeing. It is good for America to have 
competition. So I certainly agree with 
him about that. 

It has nothing to do with these two 
bills. We are here today again, amazingly, 
talking about the most important 
thing we do in our government, 
and we get off on a side issue. It is a 
side issue today. It may be a big issue 
tomorrow. But today we are here to 
talk about these two bills. 

My friend from Colorado for the second 
time has referred to the overseas 
contingency fund as a slush fund. The 
President of the United States, President 
Obama, has asked for that fund 
every year that he has been President, 
and we, the Congress, have given him 
that fund every year that he has been 
President. 

I don’t think when the President 
asked for it or when the Congress gave 
it to him either side thought we were 
giving a slush fund. It has been used to 
protect the people of the United States. 
Everyone has agreed on that. It only 
became a slush fund when they didn’t 
want it to be used for a particular purpose. 
It is not a slush fund. 

The purposes for which it will be used 
are spelled out in detail in the National 
Defense Authorization Act, an act, as I 
said, we have gone through in both 
Houses, through committees and floor 
debate and this very lengthy process of 
trying to get to this conference report. 
This is not a slush fund. This is something 
that is necessary to defending 
the country. 

So I hope, instead of using terms like 
that, which, quite frankly, does not reflect 
very well on President Obama, 
who asked for it, I think we should use 
other terms. 

And let’s get back to the heart of 
this argument: Are we going to stand 
together for the defense of this country 
or are we not? Are we going to stand 
with Ayatollah or are we going to 
stand with the people who have been 
harmed by the Ayatollah. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. POLIS. I yield myself such time 
as I may consume. 

We haven’t even passed an Authorization 
for Use of Military Force to establish 
the legal way for who we are supposed 
to be fighting against. We are 
still operating under the post-9/11 Authorization 
for Use of Military Force 
that names al Qaeda. But if you talk to 
most military experts, al Qaeda is not 
the preeminent threat today. 

There are a lot of threats in the 
world, including ISIS, including 
threats in the Syrian civil war, including 
threats of the resurgence of the 
Taliban in Afghanistan, and this body 
needs to take up an Authorization for 

Use of Military Force to ensure that 
funds that we appropriate for defense 
are used in a way that Congress is 
aware of and has oversight of. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON 
LEE). 

Ms. JACKSON LEE. Let me thank 
my good friend from Colorado for managing 
this bill. 

Let me also thank the majority manager 
as well for coming to the floor and 
doing the people’s bidding. 

Although we disagree in both the 
purpose of the underlying bill and its 
effectiveness, there is no doubt that 
this bill has a good cause. None of us 
take a backseat to protecting the 
American people, to seeking compensation, 
to bringing those who are missing 
or those who have been captured on 
false terms back home to American 
soil. And I stand here to make that 
commitment. 

As well, I recognize that we are going 
down the trail, Mr. Speaker, that we 
have done for the Affordable Care Act, 
one more attempt to undermine a legitimately 
debated initiative—the Iran 
nonnuclear proliferation—where Members 
made a conscious decision, personal 
decision, on reflecting on the 
best direction for the American people. 

In both the Senate and the procedures 
set out for this Congress to determine 
whether this bill, this initiative, 
will be turned back, it did not 
work. So it is the law of the land. It is 
an effort to ensure peace, to reconcile 
in the area, to stop the proliferation of 
nuclear weapons by Iran. It does not in 
any way diminish the United States’ 
stance on Iran’s terrorist activities. It 
does none of that. 

But this legislation, under the pretense 
of not allowing the sanctions to 
be relieved, has a very key component 
and a number of measures in that initiative. 
It has a number of measures, 
another roadblock, before those sanctions 
will be removed. It is under the 
pretense of dealing with the individuals 
who we all want to be brought home. 

I don’t know how this Congress does 
not know of the negotiations and the 
engagement that is going on, but they 
know that this is legislation that will 
be vetoed by the President. 

I say this in the backdrop of the 
Madison Papers, No. 51, that says, 
‘‘Justice is the end of government.’’ It 
means that we on this floor must do 
things that really get us in the direction 
of justice, the end result for the 
American people. 

The reason why I am so disappointed 
is I listened to my two colleagues 
speak eloquently about the Export-Import 
Bank. I can tell them that I was in 
Africa with the President, and an 
American stood up and pleaded that he 
was going to lose 400 jobs if we could 
not get that Export-Import Bank. I 
hesitate to think that his contract and 
his engagement—what we asked him to 
do—has collapsed. 

Mr. Speaker, let me repeat again, 
‘‘Justice is the end of government.’’ So 

here we are on a bill that is going to be 
a copycat of what we are doing with 
the Affordable Care Act. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentlewoman has expired. 

Mr. POLIS. I yield the gentlewoman 
an additional 30 seconds. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE. I am so disappointed, 
Mr. Speaker, because here I 
am on the floor discussing justice and 
we have yet another disappointing representation 
of this Congress when a 
leader of the Congress can speak and 
say that the Benghazi Committee is 
only a farce, it was only used to besmirch 
a public servant. 

That is not what Madison wanted for 
this Nation. They didn’t want us to 
stop the economic engine for the Export-
Import Bank. They didn’t want us 
to over and over attack the Affordable 
Care Act that has been passed and 
upheld by the Supreme Court. They 
didn’t want us to pass a bill like the 
underlying deal blocking the Iran sanctions 
process of the bill that we passed 
to stop nuclear proliferation. 

They didn’t want us to do that, Mr. 
Speaker. They wanted us to have justice 
established, and they wanted us to 
do what is right for the American people. 


I ask for a vote against the rule and 
the underlying bill. Justice should be 
the end of government, not what we 
are doing here today. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, I would just note that 
the gentlewoman from Texas talked 
about justice. One of the bills that is in 
this rule is the Justice for Victims of 
Iranian Terrorism Act. 

It is about justice for the victims and 
for the families, victims of state-sponsored 
terrorism by Iran. This doesn’t 
undo the Iranian deal. If Iran pays the 
judgments, the deal goes forward. That 
is the law. 

So I would disagree with the gentlewoman 
with regard to the whole concept 
of justice. This rule contains a bill 
that is directly about justice. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. POLIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
the balance of my time. 

It is remarkable the gentleman from 
Alabama hasn’t been able to find any 
other Republicans to support these 
bills and come down and help him 
argue. I think that that speaks volumes 
about how these bills are simply 
not consistent with promoting our national 
defense and are fiscally irresponsible. 
They don’t please the defense 
hawks or the budget hawks. So my 
poor colleague, Mr. BYRNE, is left alone 
to fend for himself. 

Here we are, trying to use the contingency 
funding as base funding and use 
it to somehow form the base from 
which our military must fund its everyday 
operations. The commanders 
and generals all agree this is a bad 
idea, and the gentleman from Alabama 
has even acknowledged that. 

Here we are, discussing a bill that 
won’t result in any of the victims of 


H6758 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

state-sponsored terrorism actually seeing 
their settlement, when there is another 
path and we certainly could have 
a deliberative process around a bill 
that empowers the impoundment and 
collection of assets from state sponsors 
of terrorism States here in our country 
to ensure that victims see their judgments. 


b 1000 
What this bill does is it ties it to an 
unrelated set of sanctions that were 
put in place to prevent Iran from developing 
nuclear weapons to settlement of 
these claims when, actually, we should 
be giving our courts, or if we are concerned 
about this issue with regard to 
settlements against sponsors of state 
terrorism, we should give courts the increased 
ability to make sure that they 
can see that restitution and impound 
assets from sponsors of state terrorism. 
Now, Democrats have come down and 
offered something, if we defeat the previous 
question, that actually will improve 
our national defense. It will ensure 
that we have a strong aerospace 
industry here in our country. 
The gentleman from Alabama has 
mentioned that Airbus is in his district. 
Well, Airbus is a company that 
will do very well if we fail to authorize 
the Export-Import Bank because it will 
put American competitors like Boeing 
and Lockheed at a significant disadvantage. 
Now, I hope that we are fighting to 
ensure that America maintains its 
aerospace capacity and leadership and 
we don’t cede all of that to European 
companies like Airbus that are welcome 
to compete on a level playing 
field. It is critical for our national security 
that we have the ability to lead 
the world as we have in the aerospace 
industry. 
I also want to bring up that we 
should be discussing an Authorization 
for Use of Military Force. The National 
Defense Authorization Act does contain 
some parameters about how 
money is used, but it is not a substitute 
for an Authorization for Use of 
Military Force, and we should be having 
that debate. 
Who are we even fighting? Who are 
we even fighting? I don’t think that 
most people believe that it is still al 
Qaeda from the post-9/11 Authorization 
for Use of Military Force. 
Now, I don’t know what to call what 
we are doing in Iraq and Syria. Maybe 
it is a war. Maybe it is a security operation. 
Maybe it is occasional support 
to some Syrian rebels or support to the 
Iraqi Government or on-and-off commitment 
to the Kurds. But whatever it 
is, I don’t think it is what Congress 
voted for in 2001 or 2003, before I was 
here, before Mr. BYRNE was here, before 
the vast majority of this body that currently 
serves was even here. 
Those authorizations should be in the 
history books, not being invoked as 
legal justification for conducting operations 
in a world, in 2015, which is vastly 
different than the world of 2001 and 

2003. And who knows how much longer 
or how many different wars or security 
operations will continue to be administered 
if Congress doesn’t finally specify 
and do our job with regard to an Authorization 
for Use of Military Force. 

Now, that is a hard debate. It is a 
hard issue. It is not a partisan debate. 
There are Democrats and Republicans 
on all sides; and many Members, when 
we have that debate, will make sure 
that we have the very best information 
to act on. 

But since we authorized military 
force against al Qaeda and ‘‘affiliated’’ 
groups in 2001, there have been over 300 
new Members of Congress elected, so 
the vast majority of this body, including 
myself and Mr. BYRNE, including 
Mr. HECK, including Mr. KILDEE—I believe, 
of all of us. I believe Ms. JACKSON 
LEE was the only one who was actually 
here when we even had that discussion. 
The rest of us talking about defense 
and NDAA didn’t even play any role in 
choosing what the target and what our 
focus of our national security operations 
are. 

The American people deserve and demand 
this debate. They don’t want yet 
another fight with Congresspeople 
playing budget tricks around defense. 
They want to know what our Nation’s 
plan is for the operations that have 
been ongoing. They want to see Congress 
take its constitutional responsibilities 
for actions in the world. 

And whether any one of us ultimately 
votes in favor or against an Authorization 
for Use of Military Force, 
we all, I hope, are for the debate, and 
we should join in demanding one. 

On the conference report, Madam 
Speaker, this plan will not work, will 
not become law. The President will 
veto it. The generals oppose it. The 
budget hawks oppose it. No one even 
came down to join Mr. BYRNE in arguing 
for it. It is a terrible plan. It will 
hurt our national defense. We need to 
defeat it. 

The Iran bill tries to get at a legitimate 
issue in completely the wrong 
way. It is not a partisan issue that we 
want to see restitution for victims of 
state terrorism. Let’s get into that act 
and look at the enforcement mechanisms 
rather than try to use these victims 
as yet another attempt to go after 
the deal that prevents Iran from developing 
nuclear weapons. 

I think it is clear from our Rules 
Committee debate that everyone supports 
efforts for American victims of 
terrorism to pursue compensation. The 
Iran nuclear agreement has nothing to 
do with that, and it certainly doesn’t 
prevent that from happening. 

No matter what country, whether it 
is Iran or other sponsors of state terrorism, 
we all remain committed to 
this process of seeing justice. Undermining 
the ability to enforce a nuclear 
agreement is not the proper way or 
even a relevant way to achieve this 
goal. 

The reauthorization of the Export-
Import Bank is ready to go. If we de


feat the previous question, we will 
bring it to the floor. We have the votes 
in the House. I hope my colleague, Mr. 
BYRNE from Alabama, will join us in 
that vote if we can defeat the previous 
question. We have the votes in the Senate, 
the President. We can stop this unnecessary 
loss of jobs every single day 
in districts across our country solely 
due to our inability to act. 

Hopefully, we can move to take up 
highway authorization, ESEA, immigration 
reform, raising the minimum 
wage. These are some of the issues that 
I hear from my constituents about 
every day that we need to act on. So 
rather than waste time, waste money, 
hurt our national defense, let’s get to 
work and accomplish something. 

I urge my colleagues to defeat the 
previous question and defeat the rule. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. BYRNE. Madam Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I appreciate Mr. POLIS being concerned 
that I am here by myself. I 
think it has been a good debate, and I 
know I have the full support of my colleagues 
behind me, and there will be a 
number of them here to debate the bill 
when it comes up after we adopt this 
rule. 

It is extremely important that we 
understand what we are about in these 
two bills. It is not about the Export-
Import Bank. It is not about immigration. 
It is not about any of the other 
issues that he brought up. It is about 
defending the American people and 
making victims of Iran terrorism 
whole. That is what it is about. 

Now, I have seen the public opinion 
polls on national security. National security 
has rocketed up to be the number 
one issue for the people of America. 
I didn’t need to see those polls. I have 
done 18 townhall meetings in the last 
several weeks in my district, and I 
have looked my constituents in the 
eyes and heard their concerns. 

They don’t bring up the Export-Import 
Bank to me. They bring up the 
fact that they are worried about what 
is happening to our country’s standing 
abroad. They are worried about what is 
going on with these brutal terrorists in 
the Middle East. They are worried 
about the fact that we have just given 
Iran a nuclear weapon. They are worried 
about whether we are going to 
have an adequate defense to continue 
to protect them, as we have for decades 
now, in a bipartisan fashion. That is 
what they are worried about, and that 
is what they expect us to come here 
and do something about. 

These two bills do something very 
important. The National Defense Authorization 
Act, for 53 years, has been 
passed in a bipartisan fashion, which 
has said to the world, which has said to 
our allies, which has said to our enemies, 
which has said to the men and 
women in uniform in the United States 
of America, we stand as one. 

Now this President and some—not all 
of my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle—some of my colleagues on 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6759 

the other side of the aisle are going to 
break that, after five decades, at this 
critical time. I find that hard to believe, 
but I accept the fact that it is 
nonetheless true. 

I would plead with them to reconsider 
that. I would plead with the 
President, who is our Commander in 
Chief, not to veto this bill. This is 
critically important at a critically important 
time. 

On the Justice for Victims of Iranian 
Terrorism Act, you know, we don’t get 
very many opportunities where we in 
this body can do something that will 
directly bring some measure of compensation 
to people, citizens of the 
United States, who have been victimized 
by the largest state sponsor of terrorism 
in the world. We don’t get very 
many opportunities like that, and we 
have it right now this with this bill. 
We have the opportunity to make them 
whole, or come close to making them 
whole. 

They have got judgments from 
courts, valid judgments; and with the 
passage of this bill, which should truly 
be a bipartisan thing, and if the President 
signs it, with passage of this bill, 
we could give it to them. What a wonderful 
thing we could give to them 
after all the suffering they have been 
through. We would deny them that because 
we want to stand with the Ayatollah, 
because we think Iran is more 
important than they are? 

If we think for one second that Iran 
is going to take this money that is 
going to be released and use it for good 
and peaceful purposes, we are excessively 
naive. They are going to take 
this money, based upon what they have 
done in the past and what they are 
doing today, and they will use it to 
fund Hezbollah, Hamas, the Houthis, 
and other terrorist groups around the 
Middle East and perhaps around the 
world not just against other people 
outside the United States, against people 
in the United States. So by passing 
that bill, we deny them tens of billions 
of dollars. They won’t be able to use it 
for that. 

I wish that, for once, we could come 
into this room, on something of this 
magnitude and stand shoulder to shoulder, 
not as Democrats, not as Republicans, 
but as Americans, which we 
have done for decades. It saddens me 
that the President and some of the 
members of his own party in this House 
would not do that. 

So I beg my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle to reconsider, and I beg 
the President of the United States to 
reconsider. There has never been a 
more important time for us to stand 
together for the defense of this country 
and for the men and women in uniform. 

The material previously referred to 
by Mr. POLIS is as follows: 
AN AMENDMENT TO H. RES. 449 OFFERED BY 
MR. POLIS OF COLORADO 
At the end of the resolution, add the following 
new sections: 
SEC. 4. Immediately upon adoption of this 
resolution the Speaker shall, pursuant to 

clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union for consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 3611) to reauthorize 
and reform the Export-Import Bank of the 
United States, and for other purposes. The 
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed 
with. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Financial Services. 
After general debate the bill shall be considered 
for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill are waived. At the conclusion of consideration 
of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to 
the House with such amendments as may 
have been adopted. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions. If 
the Committee of the Whole rises and reports 
that it has come to no resolution on 
the bill, then on the next legislative day the 
House shall, immediately after the third 
daily order of business under clause 1 of rule 
XIV, resolve into the Committee of the 
Whole for further consideration of the bill. 

SEC. 5. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not 
apply to the consideration of H.R. 3611. 

THE VOTE ON THE PREVIOUS QUESTION: WHAT 
IT REALLY MEANS 

This vote, the vote on whether to order the 
previous question on a special rule, is not 
merely a procedural vote. A vote against ordering 
the previous question is a vote 
against the Republican majority agenda and 
a vote to allow the Democratic minority to 
offer an alternative plan. It is a vote about 
what the House should be debating. 

Mr. Clarence Cannon’s Precedents of the 
House of Representatives (VI, 308–311), describes 
the vote on the previous question on 
the rule as ‘‘a motion to direct or control the 
consideration of the subject before the House 
being made by the Member in charge.’’ To 
defeat the previous question is to give the 
opposition a chance to decide the subject before 
the House. Cannon cites the Speaker’s 
ruling of January 13, 1920, to the effect that 
‘‘the refusal of the House to sustain the demand 
for the previous question passes the 
control of the resolution to the opposition’’ 
in order to offer an amendment. On March 
15, 1909, a member of the majority party offered 
a rule resolution. The House defeated 
the previous question and a member of the 
opposition rose to a parliamentary inquiry, 
asking who was entitled to recognition. 
Speaker Joseph G. Cannon (R–Illinois) said: 
‘‘The previous question having been refused, 
the gentleman from New York, Mr. Fitzgerald, 
who had asked the gentleman to 
yield to him for an amendment, is entitled to 
the first recognition.’’ 

The Republican majority may say ‘‘the 
vote on the previous question is simply a 
vote on whether to proceed to an immediate 
vote on adopting the resolution . . . [and] 
has no substantive legislative or policy implications 
whatsoever.’’ But that is not what 
they have always said. Listen to the Republican 
Leadership Manual on the Legislative 
Process in the United States House of Representatives, 
(6th edition, page 135). Here’s 
how the Republicans describe the previous 
question vote in their own manual: ‘‘Although 
it is generally not possible to amend 
the rule because the majority Member controlling 
the time will not yield for the purpose 
of offering an amendment, the same result 
may be achieved by voting down the pre


vious question on the rule.... When the 
motion for the previous question is defeated, 
control of the time passes to the Member 
who led the opposition to ordering the previous 
question. That Member, because he 
then controls the time, may offer an amendment 
to the rule, or yield for the purpose of 
amendment.’’ 

In Deschler’s Procedure in the U.S. House 
of Representatives, the subchapter titled 
‘‘Amending Special Rules’’ states: ‘‘a refusal 
to order the previous question on such a rule 
[a special rule reported from the Committee 
on Rules] opens the resolution to amendment 
and further debate.’’ (Chapter 21, section 
21.2) Section 21.3 continues: ‘‘Upon rejection 
of the motion for the previous question 
on a resolution reported from the Committee 
on Rules, control shifts to the Member 
leading the opposition to the previous 
question, who may offer a proper amendment 
or motion and who controls the time for debate 
thereon.’’ 

Clearly, the vote on the previous question 
on a rule does have substantive policy implications. 
It is one of the only available tools 
for those who oppose the Republican majority’s 
agenda and allows those with alternative 
views the opportunity to offer an alternative 
plan. 

Mr. BYRNE. Madam Speaker, I yield 
back the balance of my time, and I 
move the previous question. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. ROS-
LEHTINEN). The question is on ordering 
the previous question. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Mr. POLIS. Madam Speaker, on that 
I demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair 
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum 
time for any electronic vote on the 
question of adoption of the resolution. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 237, nays 
180, not voting 17, as follows: 

[Roll No. 529] 
YEAS—237 
Abraham Comstock Goodlatte 
Aderholt Conaway Gosar 
Allen Cook Gowdy 
Amash Costello (PA) Granger 
Amodei Cramer Graves (GA) 
Babin Crawford Graves (LA) 
Barletta Crenshaw Graves (MO) 
Barr Curbelo (FL) Griffith 
Barton Davis, Rodney Grothman 
Benishek Denham Guinta 
Bilirakis Dent Guthrie 
Bishop (MI) DeSantis Hanna 
Bishop (UT) DesJarlais Hardy 
Black Diaz-Balart Harper 
Blackburn Dold Harris 
Blum Donovan Hartzler 
Bost Duffy Heck (NV) 
Boustany Duncan (SC) Hensarling 
Brat Duncan (TN) Herrera Beutler 
Bridenstine Ellmers (NC) Hice, Jody B. 
Brooks (IN) Emmer (MN) Hill 
Buchanan Farenthold Holding 
Buck Fincher Huelskamp 
Bucshon Fitzpatrick Huizenga (MI) 
Burgess Fleischmann Hultgren 
Byrne Fleming Hunter 
Calvert Flores Hurd (TX) 
Carter (GA) Forbes Hurt (VA) 
Carter (TX) Fortenberry Issa 
Chabot Foxx Jenkins (KS) 
Chaffetz Franks (AZ) Jenkins (WV) 
Clawson (FL) Frelinghuysen Johnson (OH) 
Coffman Garrett Johnson, Sam 
Cole Gibbs Jolly 
Collins (GA) Gibson Jones 
Collins (NY) Gohmert Jordan 


H6760 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

Joyce Murphy (PA) Sessions Sinema Titus Walz Hunter Miller (FL) Schweikert 
Katko Neugebauer Shimkus Sires Tonko Wasserman Hurd (TX) Miller (MI) Scott, Austin 
Kelly (MS) Newhouse Shuster Slaughter Torres Schultz Hurt (VA) Moolenaar Sensenbrenner 
Kelly (PA) 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Knight 
Labrador 
LaHood 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Latta 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Loudermilk 
Love 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
MacArthur 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
McCarthy 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McHenry 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McSally 
Meadows 
Meehan 
Messer 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Noem 
Nugent 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Palmer 
Paulsen 
Pearce 
Perry 
Pittenger 
Pitts 
Poe (TX) 
Poliquin 
Posey 
Price, Tom 
Ratcliffe 
Reed 
Renacci 
Ribble 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney (FL) 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus 
Rouzer 
Royce 
Russell 
Ryan (WI) 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Simpson 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Stefanik 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Trott 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walker 
Walorski 
Walters, Mimi 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Westerman 
Westmoreland 
Williams 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Young (AK) 
Smith (WA) Tsongas Waters, Maxine 
Speier Van Hollen Watson Coleman 
Swalwell (CA) Vargas Welch 
Takai Veasey Wilson (FL)
Takano Vela YarmuthThompson (CA) Vela´ zquez 
Thompson (MS) Visclosky 
NOT VOTING—17 
Bishop (GA) Gutie´ rrez Perlmutter 
Brady (TX) Hudson Pompeo 
Brooks (AL) Kelly (IL) Reichert 
Brown (FL) Neal Whitfield 
Conyers Nunes Yoho 
Culberson Payne 
b 1039 
Messrs. CONNOLLY and HOYER 
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to 
‘‘nay.’’ 
Mr. YODER changed his vote from 
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’ 
So the previous question was ordered. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
Stated for: 
Mr. BRADY of Texas. Madam Speaker, on 
rollcall No. 529, had I been present, I would 
have voted ‘‘yes.’’ 
Stated against: 
Mr. CONYERS. Madam Speaker, earlier 
today, I was unavoidably detained and was 
Issa 
Jenkins (KS) 
Jenkins (WV) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jolly 
Jones 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Katko 
Kelly (MS) 
Kelly (PA) 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Knight 
Labrador 
LaHood 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Latta 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Loudermilk 
Love 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
MacArthur 
Marchant 
Marino 
McCarthy 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McHenry 
Mooney (WV) 
Mullin 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (PA) 
Neugebauer 
Newhouse 
Noem 
Nugent 
Nunes 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Palmer 
Paulsen 
Pearce 
Perry 
Pittenger 
Pitts 
Poe (TX) 
Poliquin 
Posey 
Price, Tom 
Ratcliffe 
Reed 
Renacci 
Ribble 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney (FL) 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Sinema 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Stefanik 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Trott 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Vela 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walker 
Walorski 
Walters, Mimi 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Westerman 
Westmoreland 
Williams 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Moolenaar 
Mooney (WV) 
Mullin 
Mulvaney 
Scalise 
Schweikert 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Young (IA) 
Young (IN) 
Zeldin 
Zinke 
not able to vote on the Motion Ordering the 
Previous Question on the Rule for H.R. 3457, 
rollcall vote 529. Had I been able to vote, I 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McSally 
Rothfus 
Rouzer 
Royce 
Russell 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Young (AK) 
Adams 
Aguilar 
Ashford 
Bass 
Beatty 
NAYS—180 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Lujan Grisham 
(NM) 
Luja´n, Ben Ray 
(NM) 
Lynch 
would have voted ‘‘nay.’’ 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the resolution. 
The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 
Meadows 
Meehan 
Messer 
Mica 
Adams 
Ryan (WI) 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Scalise 
NOES—181 
Deutch 
Young (IA) 
Young (IN) 
Zeldin 
Zinke 
Lee 
Becerra Farr Maloney, RECORDED VOTE Aguilar Dingell Levin 
Bera 
Beyer 
Blumenauer 
Fattah 
Foster 
Frankel (FL) 
Carolyn 
Maloney, Sean 
Matsui 
Mr. POLIS. Madam Speaker, I demand 
a recorded vote. 
Ashford 
Bass 
Beatty 
Doggett 
Doyle, Michael 
F. 
Lewis 
Lieu, Ted 
Lipinski 
Bonamici Fudge McCollum A recorded vote was ordered. Becerra Duckworth Loebsack 
Boyle, Brendan 
F. 
Brady (PA) 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Garamendi 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McNerney 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 
5-minute vote. 
Bera 
Beyer 
Bishop (GA) 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Lofgren 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 
Brownley (CA) 
Bustos 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Graham 
Grayson 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Meeks 
Meng 
Moore 
Moulton 
The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 241, noes 181, 
not voting 12, as follows: 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Boyle, Brendan 
F. 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Farr 
Fattah 
Lujan Grisham 
(NM) 
Luja´n, Ben Ray 
(NM) 
Capuano 
Ca´ rdenas 
Carney 
Grijalva 
Hahn 
Hastings 
Murphy (FL) 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
[Roll No. 530] 
AYES—241 
Brady (PA) 
Brownley (CA) 
Bustos 
Foster 
Frankel (FL) 
Fudge 
Lynch 
Maloney, 
Carolyn 
Carson (IN) Heck (WA) Nolan Abraham Coffman Foxx Butterfield Gabbard Maloney, Sean 
Cartwright Higgins Norcross Aderholt Cole Franks (AZ) Capps Gallego Massie 
Castor (FL) Himes O’Rourke Allen Collins (GA) Frelinghuysen Capuano Garamendi Matsui 
Castro (TX) Hinojosa Pallone Amash Collins (NY) Garrett Ca´ rdenas Graham McCollum 
Chu, Judy Honda Pascrell Amodei Comstock Gibbs Carney Grayson McDermott 
Cicilline Hoyer Pelosi Babin Conaway Gibson Carson (IN) Green, Al McGovern 
Clark (MA) Huffman Peters Barletta Cook Gohmert Cartwright Grijalva McNerney 
Clarke (NY) Israel Peterson Barr Costello (PA) Goodlatte Castor (FL) Hahn Meeks 
Clay Jackson Lee Pingree Barton Cramer Gosar Castro (TX) Hastings Meng 
Cleaver Jeffries Pocan Benishek Crawford Gowdy Chu, Judy Heck (WA) Moore 
Clyburn Johnson (GA) Polis Bilirakis Crenshaw Granger Cicilline Higgins Moulton 
Cohen Johnson, E. B. Price (NC) Bishop (MI) Curbelo (FL) Graves (GA) Clark (MA) Himes Murphy (FL) 
Connolly Kaptur Quigley Bishop (UT) Davis, Rodney Graves (LA) Clarke (NY) Hinojosa Nadler 
Cooper Keating Rangel Black Denham Graves (MO) Clay Honda Napolitano 
Costa Kennedy Rice (NY) Blackburn Dent Green, Gene Cleaver Hoyer Nolan 
Courtney Kildee Richmond Blum DeSantis Griffith Clyburn Huffman Norcross 
Crowley Kilmer Roybal-Allard Bost DesJarlais Grothman Cohen Israel O’Rourke 
Cuellar Kind Ruiz Boustany Diaz-Balart Guinta Connolly Jackson Lee Pallone 
Cummings Kirkpatrick Ruppersberger Brat Dold Guthrie Conyers Jeffries Pascrell 
Davis (CA) Kuster Rush Bridenstine Donovan Hanna Cooper Johnson (GA) Payne 
Davis, Danny Langevin Ryan (OH) Brooks (AL) Duffy Hardy Costa Johnson, E. B. Pelosi 
DeFazio Larsen (WA) Sa´nchez, Linda Brooks (IN) Duncan (SC) Harper Courtney Kaptur Peters 
DeGette Larson (CT) T. Buchanan Duncan (TN) Harris Crowley Keating Peterson 
Delaney Lawrence Sanchez, Loretta Buck Ellmers (NC) Hartzler Cuellar Kennedy Pingree 
DeLauro Lee Sarbanes Bucshon Emmer (MN) Heck (NV) Cummings Kildee Pocan 
DelBene Levin Schakowsky Burgess Farenthold Hensarling Davis (CA) Kilmer Polis 
DeSaulnier Lewis Schiff Byrne Fincher Herrera Beutler Davis, Danny Kind Price (NC) 
Deutch Lieu, Ted Schrader Calvert Fitzpatrick Hice, Jody B. DeFazio Kirkpatrick Quigley 
Dingell Lipinski Scott (VA) Carter (GA) Fleischmann Hill DeGette Kuster Rangel 
Doggett Loebsack Scott, David Carter (TX) Fleming Holding Delaney Langevin Rice (NY) 
Doyle, Michael Lofgren Serrano Chabot Flores Huelskamp DeLauro Larsen (WA) Richmond 
F. Lowenthal Sewell (AL) Chaffetz Forbes Huizenga (MI) DelBene Larson (CT) Roybal-Allard 
Duckworth Lowey Sherman Clawson (FL) Fortenberry Hultgren DeSaulnier Lawrence Ruiz 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6761 

Ruppersberger Sherman Van Hollen 
Rush Sires Vargas 
Ryan (OH) Slaughter Veasey 
Sa´nchez, Linda Smith (WA) Vela´zquez 

T. Speier 
ViscloskySanchez, Loretta Swalwell (CA) 

Walz 

Sarbanes Takai 

Wasserman 

Schakowsky Takano 

Schultz

Schiff Thompson (CA) 

Waters, Maxine

Schrader Thompson (MS) 

Watson Coleman

Scott (VA) Titus 

Welch

Scott, David Tonko 

Wilson (FL)

Serrano Torres 

Yarmuth

Sewell (AL) Tsongas 

NOT VOTING—12 

Brady (TX) Hudson Pompeo 
Brown (FL) Kelly (IL) Reichert 
Culberson Neal Whitfield 
Gutie´rrez Perlmutter Yoho 

b 1049 

So the resolution was agreed to. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE 

A message from the Senate by Ms. 
Curtis, one of its clerks, announced 
that the Senate has passed with 
amendments in which the concurrence 
of the House is requested, a bill of the 
House of the following title: 

H.R. 2617. An act to amend the Fair Minimum 
Wage Act of 2007 to postpone a scheduled 
increase in the minimum wage applicable 
to American Samoa. 
The message also announced that the 
Senate has passed a bill of the following 
title in which the concurrence 
of the House is requested: 

S. 2078. An act to reauthorize the United 
States Commission on International Religious 
Freedom, and for other purposes. 
f 

JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF IRANIAN 
TERRORISM ACT 

Mr. ROYCE. Madam Speaker, pursuant 
to House Resolution 449, I call up 
the bill (H.R. 3457) to prohibit the lifting 
of sanctions on Iran until the Government 
of Iran pays the judgments 
against it for acts of terrorism, and for 
other purposes, and ask for its immediate 
consideration. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 449, the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute 
printed in House Report 114–273, 
is adopted and the bill, as amended, is 
considered read. 

The text of the bill, as amended, is as 
follows: 
H.R. 3457 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Justice for 
Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act’’. 

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON LIFTING OF SANCTIONS 

ON IRAN PENDING PAYMENT OF 

CERTAIN JUDGMENTS. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the President may 
not take any of the actions described in subsection 
(b) until the President has certified 
to the Congress that the Government of Iran 
has paid each judgment against Iran that is 
described in subsection (c). 

(b) ACTIONS DESCRIBED.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The actions described in 
this subsection are the following: 
(A) To waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief 
from, or otherwise limit the application 
of sanctions described in paragraph (2) or refrain 
from applying any such sanctions. 
(B) To remove a foreign person listed in 
Attachment 3 or Attachment 4 to Annex II of 
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
from the list of specially designated nationals 
and blocked persons maintained by the 
Office of Foreign Asset Control of the Department 
of the Treasury. 
(2) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—The sanctions 
described in this paragraph are— 
(A) the sanctions described in sections 4 
through 7.9 of Annex II of the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action; and 
(B) the sanctions described in any other 
agreement related to the nuclear program of 
Iran that includes the United States, commits 
the United States to take action, or 
pursuant to which the United States commits 
or otherwise agrees to take action, regardless 
of the form it takes, whether a political 
commitment or otherwise, and regardless 
of whether it is legally binding or 
not. 
(c) JUDGMENTS.—A judgment is a judgment 
described in this subsection if it is a final 
judgment entered by the courts of the United 
States or of the States— 
(1) that relates to a claim— 
(A) that was brought against Iran or its political 
subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities 
(regardless of whether the claim was 
also brought, or the resulting judgment was 
also entered, against another defendant); and 
(B) for which the court determined that 
Iran (or its political subdivisions, agencies, 
or instrumentalities, as the case may be) was 
not immune from the jurisdiction of the 
courts of the United States or of the States 
under section 1605A, or section 1605(a)(7) (as 
such section was in effect on January 27, 
2008), of title 28, United States Code; and 
(2) that was entered during the period beginning 
on April 24, 1996, and ending on the 
date of the enactment of this Act. 
(d) JOINT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF ACTION 
DESCRIBED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action’’ means the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, agreed 
to at Vienna on July 14, 2015, by Iran and by 
the People’s Republic of China, France, Germany, 
the Russian Federation, the United 
Kingdom and the United States, with the 
High Representative of the European Union 
for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, and 
all implementing materials and agreements 
related to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
Action. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from California (Mr. ROYCE) 
and the gentleman from New York (Mr. 
ENGEL) each will control 30 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from California. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. ROYCE. Madam Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise 
and extend their remarks and to submit 
extraneous materials on this measure. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from California? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. ROYCE. Madam Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I rise in strong support of this bill. 
This is the Justice for Victims of Iranian 
Terrorism Act. 

I appreciate the work of the bill’s author, 
Mr. MEEHAN of Pennsylvania. He 
has worked very hard on this. There 
are about 100 cosponsors in this House. 

On the Foreign Affairs Committee, 
we have made Iran the central focus of 
our work. As a matter of fact, we have 
had over 30 hearings and briefings so 
far on Iran and on the dangerous nuclear 
agreement that was struck with 
this state sponsor of terrorism. 

Madam Speaker, since coming to 
power in the late 1970s—well, 1979—the 
Iranian regime has funded terrorist 
groups such as Hezbollah and Hamas 
and directed their operations. 

Now, the way they do that is they 
have a special force. It is called the 
Quds Force. It is headed up by General 
Soleimani. He is in charge of assassinations 
outside the country, assassinations 
of U.S. targets, by the way, besides 
other targets. 

Recently you will have heard of General 
Soleimani because—by the way, 
European sanctions are going to be lifted 
on him under this agreement, but 
you will have read or heard that he 
traveled—he traveled—to Moscow to 
meet with Putin. As a result of those 
meetings, you will notice the discussions 
about weapons coming from Russia 
into Syria into the hands of the 
Quds Forces. 

So we look at what he has done and 
what U.S. courts have done as a result. 
There have been 80 separate attacks on 

U.S. installations and U.S. individuals. 
We remember the 1983 bombing of the 
U.S. marine barracks in Beirut, the 
1996 bombing of the Khobar Towers in 
Saudi Arabia. Those two attacks killed 
260 American servicemen and left their 
widows and left children to be raised by 
one parent. 
There are judgments that have been 
rendered that direct payment from 
Iran to these families, to the victims’ 
families. Unfortunately, under the Foreign 
Sovereign Immunities Act, even 
though this reward has been given, 
even though U.S. victims of state-sponsored 
terrorism got their day in court, 
and even though they have brought the 
suits in U.S. courts and had the right 
to collect these damages, Iran has not 
as of yet paid. 

U.S. courts have held Iran liable for 
the attacks carried out by its terrorist 
proxies when those attacks were orchestrated 
and paid for by the Iranian 
regime. The judgments that remain 
outstanding are $43.5 billion in unpaid 
damages for those 80 cases over the last 
decade and a half. 
In one case, $9 billion was awarded to 
the victims of the bombing of the marine 
barracks in 1983. Again, the Government 
of Iran was found responsible 
through lawful proceedings in a U.S. 
court. That judgment remains unpaid. 

Madam Speaker, the Obama administration 
during its negotiations with 
Iran did not seek for Iran to compensate 
the families of those whose 


H6762 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

lives were taken by Iranian terrorism 
despite these U.S. court judgments. 
That is very much in contrast with our 
past procedure. 

In the case of Libya, for example, a 
decade ago, when we reached that 
agreement with Libya, the U.S. secured 
the right or the demand that the Qadhafi 
regime compensate the victims of 
the attacks, such as the bombing of 
Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. 
That was $2.5 billion. That was done. 
That is our procedure. 

Iran will soon obtain $100 billion, approximately, 
in unfrozen assets as well 
as immeasurable economic and financial 
benefits by escaping the sanctions 
regime and reintegrating into the global 
economy. Iran will get sanctions 
lifted and American victims will still 
be out in the cold. That is not right. 

This legislation would address that 
injustice. It is straightforward. It 
would say that, of the $100 billion and 
some in sanctions relief, those judgments 
will be paid out of that. That $43 
billion will be paid to the survivors of 
those families of those 80 attacks orchestrated, 
paid for, by Iran. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS, 

Washington, DC, September 30, 2015. 

Hon. EDWARD R. ROYCE, 

Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs, House 
of Representatives, Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing with respect 
to H.R. 3457, the ‘‘Justice for Victims 
of Iranian Terrorism Act,’’ which was referred 
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 

H.R. 3457 involves issues that fall within 
Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on 
Ways and Means. As a result of your having 
consulted with the Committee and in order 
to expedite the House’s consideration of H.R. 
3457, the Committee on Ways and Means will 
not assert its jurisdictional claim over this 
bill by seeking a sequential referral. However, 
this is conditional on our mutual understanding 
and agreement that doing so 
will in no way diminish or alter the jurisdiction 
of the Committee with respect to the 
appointment of conferees or to any future jurisdictional 
claim over the subject matters 
contained in the bill or similar legislation. 
I would appreciate a response to this letter 
confirming this understanding with respect 
to H.R. 3457, and would ask that a copy of 
our exchange of letters on this matter be included 
in the Congressional Record during 
Floor consideration of H.R. 3457. 

Sincerely, 
PAUL D. RYAN, 

Chairman. 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS, 

Washington, DC, September 30, 2015. 

Hon. PAUL RYAN, 

Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means, 
House of Representatives, Washington, DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN RYAN: Thank you for consulting 
with the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
on H.R. 3457, the Justice for Victims of 
Iranian Terrorism Act, which involves issues 
within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee 
on Ways and Means, and for agreeing 
to forgo a sequential referral request so that 
it may proceed expeditiously to the Floor. 

I agree that your forgoing further action 
on this measure does not in any way diminish 
or alter the jurisdiction of the Committee 
on Ways and Means, or prejudice its 
jurisdictional prerogatives on this bill or 

similar legislation in the future. I would support 
your effort to seek appointment of an 
appropriate number of conferees to any 
House-Senate conference involving this legislation. 


I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 3457 
into the Congressional Record during floor 
consideration of the bill. I appreciate your 
cooperation regarding this legislation and 
look forward to continuing to work with the 
Committee on Ways and Means as this measure 
moves through the legislative process. 

Sincerely, 

EDWARD R. ROYCE, 

Chairman. 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, 

Washington, DC, September 28, 2015. 

Hon. ED ROYCE, 

Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Washington, 
DC. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN ROYCE: I am writing with 
respect to H.R. 3457, the ‘‘Justice for Victims 
of Iranian Terrorism Act,’’ which was referred 
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 

H.R. 3457 involves issues that fall within 
the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on 
the Judiciary. As a result of your having 
consulted with the Committee and in order 
to expedite the House’s consideration of H.R. 
3457, the Committee on the Judiciary will 
not assert is jurisdictional claim over this 
bill by seeking a sequential referral. However, 
this is conditional on our mutual understanding 
and agreement that doing so 
will in no way diminish or alter the jurisdiction 
of the Committee on the Judiciary with 
respect to the appointment of conferees or to 
any future jurisdictional claim over the subject 
matters contained in the bill or similar 
legislation. 
I would appreciate a response to this letter 
confirming this understanding with respect 
to H.R. 3457, and would ask that a copy of 
our exchange of letters on this matter be included 
in the Congressional Record during 
Floor consideration of H.R. 3457. 

Sincerely, 
BOB GOODLATTE, 

Chairman. 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS, 

Washington, DC, September 28, 2015. 

Hon. BOB GOODLATTE, 

Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, Washington, 
DC. 

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Thank you for consulting 
with the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
on H.R. 3457, the Justice for Victims of 
Iranian Terrorism Act, which involves issues 
within the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee 
on the Judiciary, and for agreeing to 
forgo a sequential referral request so that it 
may proceed expeditiously to the Floor. 

I agree that your forgoing further action 
on this measure does not in any way diminish 
or alter the jurisdiction of the Committee 
on the Judiciary, or prejudice its jurisdictional 
prerogatives on this bill or similar 
legislation in the future. I would support 
your effort to seek appointment of an appropriate 
number of conferees to any House-
Senate conference involving this legislation. 

I will seek to place our letters on H.R. 3457 
into the Congressional Record during floor 
consideration of the bill. I appreciate your 
cooperation regarding this legislation and 
look forward to continuing to work with the 
Committee on the Judiciary as this measure 
moves through the legislative process. 

Sincerely, 

EDWARD R. ROYCE, 

Chairman. 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

I rise in opposition to the bill. 

Let me start by acknowledging my 
friend, Chairman ROYCE. The Committee 
on Foreign Affairs is the most 
bipartisan committee in Congress. We 
are collaborative, we are productive, 
and we have built a record advancing 
bipartisan legislation that promotes 
American interests abroad and keeps 
the American people safe. I want to 
state that Chairman ROYCE’s leadership 
is to thank for much of our committee’s 
good work. 

So I am disappointed that the House 
Republican leadership decided to ignore 
regular order on this bill. They 
have rushed it to the floor without any 
consideration by the Foreign Affairs 
Committee. As has been pointed out, 
we have had 30 hearings. We know a little 
bit about Iran on the Foreign Affairs 
Committee. 

So rushing it to the floor without 
any consideration by the Foreign Affairs 
Committee is wrong. I think it is 
a shame. Because I think, left to our 
own volition, we could have sent forward 
a bill that could make a difference 
for the victims of Iranian-sponsored 
terrorism. Iranian-sponsored terrorism 
is there, it is palpable, and we 
should do something to try to help the 
victims. 

But this bill, on the other hand, 
would not do that. Let me explain why. 
American courts have awarded roughly 
$46 billion to about 1,300 victims and 
their families. We all want justice for 
these families. We all want to hold Iran 
accountable for its act of terrorism 
against Americans. Iran should pay 
these claims. But this bill does nothing 
for the victims of Iranian terror. 

Here is the problem. Let’s assume for 
argument that Iran’s leaders did 
change course and decide to pay the 
claims. This bill would actually make 
it more difficult for Iran to pay these 
judgments. 

Iran owes American claimants $46 
billion, but Iran has access to $20 billion 
of its cash reserves, not $46 billion. 
The rest—$95 billion—is frozen in bank 
accounts in Europe and Asia. 

On top of that, Iran’s oil revenues are 
frozen. When Iran sells oil, the payments 
are kept frozen under the threat 
of American sanctions, which I support. 
Iran can access these funds only 
for certain purposes. Paying court 
judgments is not one of them. Current 

U.S. sanctions don’t allow it. 
b 1100 
And under this bill, all U.S. sanctions 
are kept in effect, absolutely no 
changes allowed, until Iran pays the 
full $46 billion. 
So where would Iran get the money 
to pay the American claims? 
The bill says: Iran, pay the claims, 
but you can’t have any of the funds to 
pay them. So it is a catch-22. And who 
does it hurt? Not Iran. It hurts the victims. 
Not a single claim would be paid 
under this bill. So, in my opinion, this 
bill offers nothing but false hope. 
Now, I have heard some Members 
say, well, we can pay the claims by 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6763 

seizing Iran’s frozen assets, but that is 
really not the case. Virtually all of 
Iran’s funds frozen under our sanctions 
are overseas, not in the U.S. Though 
they are frozen by U.S. sanctions, they 
are beyond the jurisdiction of our 
courts to seize them. 

Another false promise: virtually all 
of Iran’s assets will stay overseas. 
Under this bill, they would be required 
to be kept overseas because all U.S. 
sanctions would be kept in effect by 
law with no change allowed. 

So let’s be honest. This bill is not 
really about helping these victims. It is 
about exploiting their plight and their 
tragedy to make a political splash. 

Look, everyone here knows I am no 
fan of the Iran nuclear agreement. I 
voted against it, but the other side 
won. Whether you are for or against 
the deal, it is time to be realistic about 
what happens next. 

In my opinion, there were two potential 
courses. The first is to do everything 
we can to strengthen enforcement 
of the agreement and hold Iran to 
its commitments. We should double 
down on our support for friends and allies 
in the region. We should crack 
down on Iran’s support for terrorist organizations. 
We should push leaders in 
Tehran to release detained Americans 
and improve its abysmal record on 
human rights. That is the course I hope 
we will take. I will soon introduce legislation 
to pursue those aims, and I 
will work with members of both parties 
to get these measures to the President’s 
desk. 

The other course would be doing to 
the Iran agreement what leaders on the 
other side have tried to do to the Affordable 
Care Act, and that is what I 
am afraid of here: vote after vote after 
vote after vote, whether we like it or 
not, on an issue that has already been 
voted on by this Chamber many, many 
times. I don’t want the dispute on Iran 
to turn into the Affordable Care Act 
where we try to kill it 60 different 
ways. 

We should not be using this for political 
purposes. We should be passing legislation, 
which I know we can get out 
of the Foreign Affairs Committee in a 
collaborative way, that would really do 
something to help these victims, that 
would really do something to hold Iran 
accountable for all its reprehensible 
acts. So I hope that what we are doing 
today is not the path we are going 
down not only now, but in the future 
with other things. 

There was a measure in the Senate 
that was very similar to this, which 
tried to hold Iran to certain things and 
say that the funds couldn’t be released 
unless Iran did this or did that. We 
could do this another 60 times; it would 
be counterproductive. Let’s put our 
heads together. Let’s figure out a way 
that we can continue to hold Iran accountable, 
and let’s move on that way. 

So I hope we can move past this bill 
and start working on measures to ensure 
that the Iran agreement is implemented 
as strongly and stringently as 

possible. I hope we can get back to our 
regular practice in the Foreign Affairs 
Committee of which we have been so 
proud and focus on making policy that 
leaves politics at the water’s edge. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. ROYCE. The administration is 
arguing, Mr. Speaker, that although 
the Iranian regime has access to over 
$20 billion and that this judgment is $43 
billion, there isn’t enough money there 
to make payment. In addition to the 
20-some billion, Iran is in the process 
right now of negotiation and paying 
and supporting in transfers to other regimes. 


For example, a report out this week 
says Iran is purchasing $21 billion of 
airplanes and satellites from Russia. 
That is $21 billion. Iran somehow has 
the money to do that, but it doesn’t 
have the money for this claim. 

A report out about a month ago says 
that Iran’s annual support for 
Hezbollah is over $100 million per year. 
Somehow they have got the spending 
cash for that. 

It is providing the Syrian regime, one 
estimate of one of the think tanks here 
in town is that they have provided 
them a little over $10 billion a year. 

So Iran somehow has the discretionary 
money for these other purposes, 
but not for the purpose of the 
judgments won in U.S. court for over 
1,000 victims or family members of the 
victims of their attacks. 

I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. POE), chairman of the 
Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, 
Nonproliferation, and Trade. 

Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank Mr. MEEHAN for this legislation. 

Mr. Speaker, the Iranian ayatollah 
has preached and practiced ‘‘Death to 
America’’ since the 1970s. 

Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism. 
Iran has been sued in Federal courts by 
the families of the murdered victims. 
Iran is guilty of the murder of 421 
Americans in Beirut, Lebanon, in 1983. 
Iran is guilty of the murder of 19 servicemembers 
and injuring 372 others in 
Saudi Arabia in 1996. Iran is guilty of 
murdering a thousand other Americans, 
including some in Iraq and Afghanistan. 


Federal courts have awarded the victim 
and families over $40 billion for 
these crimes, but Iran will not pay. It 
laughs at the death of the innocent it 
has murdered. It laughs at American 
justice. 

Well, Mr. Speaker, it is about time 
for the long arm of American justice to 
hold Iran accountable for its sins— 
make them pay. 

I don’t understand why some appeasers 
are more concerned about the murderous 
Iranian regime than they are 
about justice, justice for the victims 
that were murdered by this regime. 

Let the ayatollah know he cannot 
get a diplomatic pass or sanctions relief 
until he pays for his crimes. The 
ayatollah has sown the seeds of murder, 
and now it is time for Iran to reap 
the consequences of their crimes. 

It seems to me that the voices of the 
murdered cry out for us to do something 
for justice, justice for them that 
has been too long waiting. This bill, in 
my opinion, will do it. 

It is about time we have justice because 
justice is what we are supposed 
to do in this country. 

And that is just the way it is. 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 
minutes to the gentleman from Minnesota 
(Mr. ELLISON). 

Mr. ELLISON. Mr. Speaker, I urge 
Members to vote ‘‘no’’ on this particular 
bill. 

You know, once we were able to secure 
this negotiation and once the deal 
was put in place, the focus of our attention 
should shift to making sure 
that Iran lives up to its commitments, 
and we should use this prior negotiation 
as a template for negotiating 
other issues, including the captives, including 
the interests of these victims 
talked about here today. 

What this bill does is it handcuffs the 
President and says that the President 
doesn’t have any discretion to do his 
end of this bargain, to exercise his discretion 
to forward and help America 
and the P5+1 live up to our end of the 
bargain. That is the wrong way to go. 

So I can credit the authors of this 
bill with having good intentions, but I 
think that the method that they are 
going about it is just wrong. 

Let’s use the template that has been 
developed through the negotiation 
process to go back and say, ‘‘Okay, now 
we got other things we want to talk to 
you about,’’ rather than pass legislation 
on this floor that will do nothing 
other than hamstring the President. It 
is the wrong way to do it. It is a mistake, 
and it should be voted down. 

Mr. ROYCE. I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. 
SMITH). 

Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. 
Speaker, in 1983, 241 American servicemen 
in Beirut were killed and another 
60 injured by a car bomb. 

One of the Marines murdered was my 
constituent, Paul Innocenzi III, who 
lived with his young family in my 
hometown of Hamilton. In my second 
term as Congressman, I joined mourners 
at his funeral. I will never forget 
the agony and the sorrow of his family. 
Iranian terrorism killed Paul Innocenzi 
and, over the decades, has killed or 
maimed thousands of other Americans. 

A Federal court, Mr. Speaker, found 
that the 1983 bombing was ‘‘beyond 
question’’ perpetrated by ‘‘Hezbollah 
and its agent who received massive material 
and technical support from the 
Iranian Government.’’ Later a three-
judge Federal appeals court panel approved 
$1.75 billion in judgment against 
Iran for the 1983 bombing and some 
other Iranian acts of terror. 

Today Iran is poised to get billions of 
dollars through so-called sanctions relief 
for an egregiously flawed comprehensive 
plan of action, money that 
will procure for Iran a significantly 
larger arsenal of sophisticated weapons 


H6764 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

and an enhanced capability to terrorize, 
murder, and destabilize. 

The chairman talked about Iran’s $21 
billion weapons purchase from Russia. 
Billions more to Iran will exponentially 
increase weapons buys. The Justice 
for Victims of Iranian Terrorism 
Act authored by PAT MEEHAN says not 
so fast. 

The President has said he will veto 
this bill. That is wrong, Mr. Speaker. 
That is uncaring, it is unacceptable, it 
is unconscionable. And does a grave 
disservice to American victims of Iranian 
terrorism. 

Support court-ordered victim payments 
by the terrorist State of Iran. 
Fundamental justice demands that this 
bill become law. 

Mr. Speaker, what was previously unacceptable—
an Iranian nuclear state—is now inevitable 
under the terms and conditions of what 
is officially known as the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action. 

Tragically, the deal is riddled with serious 
flaws, gaps, and huge concessions to Iran. 
Taken as a whole, this egregiously flawed 
deal poses an existential threat to Israel, our 
allies in the region—and poses significant 
risks to the United States. 

Today Iran is poised to get billions of dollars 
through so-called sanctions relief—money that 
will procure for Iran a significantly larger arsenal 
of sophisticated weapons and an enhanced 
capability to terrorize, murder and destabilize. 


The Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism 
Act (H.R. 3457) authored by Pat Meehan says 
not so fast. 

The bill prohibits the President from waiving 
sanctions until Iran pays its more than $44.5 
billion in court ordered damages to thousands 
of victims and survivors of Iranian terror attacks. 


To date, the U.S. Department of State has 
refused to release funds ordered by the courts 
to victims and surviving families in more than 
80 cases despite clear authority to do so 
under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act 
(FSIA). 

In 1983, 241 American servicemen in Beirut 
were killed and another 60 injured by a car 
bomb. One of the Marines murdered was my 
constituent WO1 Paul Innocenzi III who lived 
with his young family in my hometown of 
Hamilton. In my second term as congressman, 
I joined mourners at his funeral. I will never 
forget the agony and sorrow of his family. Iranian 
terrorism killed Paul Innocenzi and over 
the decades, has killed or maimed thousands 
of other Americans. 

A federal district court found that the 1983 
bombing was ‘‘beyond question’’ perpetrated 
by ‘‘Hezbollah and its agents (who) received 
massive material and technical support from 
the Iranian government’’. Later a three judge 
federal appeals court panel approved a $1.75 
billion judgement against Iran for the 1983 
bombing and other Iranian acts of terror. 

The President has said he will veto this bill. 
That’s wrong. That’s uncaring, unacceptable, 
and unconscionable. Support court-ordered 
victim payments by the terror state of Iran. 
Fundamental justice demands that this bill becomes 
law. 

Mr. ENGEL. I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. CONNOLLY), 
our colleague on the Foreign 
Affairs Committee. 

Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank my good friend from New York 
(Mr. ENGEL) for his leadership on the 
House Foreign Affairs Committee. 

This bill prohibits any waivers, reductions, 
or other relief from U.S. 
sanctions on Iran until Iran pays all 
court-ordered damage claims to U.S. 
victims. Those claims total about $46 
billion. 

This bill would prevent the U.S. from 
implementing its commitments under 
the Iran deal, which is really what my 
friends on the other side are trying to 
do. Not being able to win directly, let’s 
get at it indirectly and let’s cover it 
with the patina of respectability. But 
the real issue is, cynically, how we use 
the plight of U.S. victims for another 
partisan shot. 

We all want to help American victims 
of Iran’s terrorism and lack of 
justice, but this is not the way to help 
them. It would have the opposite effect 
by reducing the chance that any 
claims, in fact, would be paid because, 
by freezing assets, Iran wouldn’t have 
the wherewithal to do what this bill 
says it should do before sanctions are 
lifted. 

Think about this: Iran owes $46 billion 
in U.S. claims, but it doesn’t have 
the money right now, even if it wanted 
to pay. Iran only has access to about 
$20 billion of its own reserves. 

Realistically, the only funds that 
could be used are the frozen funds 
under U.S. sanctions held in banks 
around the world. Under this bill, the 
frozen funds couldn’t be used to pay 
the claims, and all the money remains 
frozen until Iran pays the claims. It is 
a catch-22 if there ever was one. It 
couldn’t sell any oil to use to free up 
cash because those funds, too, would be 
frozen. 

Another clue about what is really behind 
this bill is that all of the 76 sponsors 
are my friends on the other side of 
the aisle, not a single Democrat. 

Regardless of one’s position on the 
Iran deal, a deal I probably supported 
because it keeps Iran from becoming a 
nuclear state, opposing this cynical bill 
is, in fact, the right vote if you care 
about the victims of Iranian injustice 
and terrorism. 

Mr. ROYCE. I yield 4 minutes to the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
MEEHAN), a member of the Committee 
on Ways and Means and author of this 
bill. 

Mr. MEEHAN. Mr. Speaker, $21 billion 
for Russian jets, but not a penny 
for the victims of their own acts of terror. 
That is what my colleagues are 
trying to say? In fact, the President 
can negotiate it. Let him reach an installment 
plan, but let’s make sure 
that these dollars are paid. 

Look, this is a fundamental question: 
Should Iran receive relief from the U.S. 
sanctions before it pays the victims of 
terrorism the $43 billion that U.S. 
courts say these victims are owed? 

When we say ‘‘terrorism,’’ what are 
we talking about? We are talking about 
Iranian-backed assassinations, bomb


ings, and attacks across time zones, 
from Paris to Jerusalem, to New York, 
to Beirut, to East Africa, to Buenos 
Aires. 

I say not one cent. 

These victims are United States citizens. 
They are wives, brothers and sisters, 
children who hail from all across 
the Nation, and they were killed in hijackings 
and suicide attacks and bombings 
of buses and planes and buildings 
and embassies and shopping malls and 
pizza parlors. 

b 1115 
In fact, I met with one of those victims 
this morning and yesterday, the 
widow of Kenneth Welch and his child. 
They are here in Washington today. 
They have been waiting 30 years for the 
opportunity to see this issue addressed. 
My friends, by voting against this 
legislation, you are saying that Iran 
and the perpetrators of these atrocities 
deserve U.S. sanctions relief before the 
victims deserve the court-ordered compensation. 
Let me say it again. By voting 
‘‘no,’’ you are putting the interests 
of Iran’s terror machine before the 
American victims of that terror. I say 
not 1 cent. 
To those who say Iran can’t afford to 
pay these damages, let me remind you 
of a few facts. Iran has a yearly gross 
domestic product in excess of $1.3 trillion, 
and they just spent $21 billion on 
Russian jets. The facts show that Iran 
has the money and will have much 
more if the sanctions are lifted, money 
that our own administration freely admits 
will go to finance even more terror. 
I sat yesterday with Ken Stethem, 
the brother of Robert Stethem, the 
United States Navy diver who was executed 
on Beirut Flight 847. His brother 
Ken, himself a retired Navy SEAL, said 
to me yesterday, ‘‘If the President 
doesn’t take this opportunity and Congress 
doesn’t take the opportunity to 
hold Iran accountable for their terrorist 
acts now, I have to ask them 
when will they. Thirty years for one 
family, more than 15 for another. When 
will they?’’ 
He is talking to us. Let’s answer him. 
Let’s today stand up for the standards 
of U.S. Navy Petty Officer Robert 
Stethem. Let’s today vote as one House 
to say we will put Robert Stethem and 
the many victims of Iran’s terrorism 
before—before—the criminals who conspired 
to kill them. 
Until they pay these victims what 
they are owed, let’s say no to Iran, not 
1 cent. 
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Oregon 
(Mr. BLUMENAUER). 
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I 
appreciate the gentleman’s courtesy in 
permitting me to speak on this issue. I 
listened to the impassioned pleas from 
my friends on the other side of the 
aisle about horrific acts of the thugs 
who run Iran. Nobody disputes that, 
and nothing before us would take away 
the sanctions that we have against 
their terrorist activity. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6765 

We are all committed to justice for 
those victims, but bear in mind what 
this legislation seeks to do is to unwind 
another critical objective of the 
United States, of our allies, to prevent 
a nuclear-armed Iran. 

That agreement was a signal achievement 
of diplomacy not just of the 
Obama administration, but of Russia, 
China, Germany, France, Great Britain, 
working with us to secure the 
strongest agreement that we have seen 
to contain these thugs’ nuclear ambitions. 
The world is united with us to 
restrain a nuclear Iran. 

Now, we have had testimony from 
our partners that, if the United States 
walks away from that agreement, we 
are on our own. They are not going to 
continue to enforce nuclear sanctions 
against Iran, and, ultimately, Iran will 
get its money and a free hand to develop 
nuclear weapons unencumbered 
by the allies that we have assembled 
and the pressure that we have put on 
them. 

Now, my friends, Mr. ENGEL and Mr. 
CONNOLLY, are correct. The construct 
here is very difficult, even if this were 
to be approved, to actually work out on 
paper. But take it a step further. These 
elements have been in place for years 
and have not resulted in any movement 
for the victims. 

We have had what the rest of the 
world thinks is a significant breakthrough 
with Iran. We have got an area 
of cooperation, and the world is united 
with us to keep the pressure on them. 
I would suggest, rather than throwing 
this agreement in the trash can and 
allow Iran to develop nuclear weapons 
and make them stronger—and, ultimately, 
they will get their money because 
India and China are going to go 
ahead and start buying oil from Iran 
again as the sanctions collapse. It will 
be the United States against the world 
again. 

We couldn’t even sanction itty-bitty 
Cuba to change their regime. It takes 
multinational efforts to be able to 
make changes. This agreement is an 
important first step, and I would suggest 
it gives us an opportunity to continue 
putting pressure on Iran to be 
able to obtain the justice that we all 
want for those victims. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from New 
Jersey (Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN), a member 
of the Committee on Appropriations. 

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN. Mr. Speaker, 
I want to thank Mr. MEEHAN and Mr. 
ROYCE for their leadership. I oppose the 
Iranian deal for many reasons. Among 
the reasons is the over $100 billion 
windfall Iran will receive in unfrozen 
assets and sanctions relief. 

The administration has acknowledged 
that some of this money will be 
certainly distributed to the Iranian 
military, its global terrorist network, 
and to the Quds Force, an organization 
with American blood on its hands. 

We remember the marines and sailors 
killed in the bombing of the barracks 
in Beirut in 1983 and civilians in that 

embassy in Beirut, the airmen who 
died in Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia 
in 1995. And what about the victims of 
the Iranian-financed attacks, like 
Alisa Flatow of West Orange, New Jersey, 
who died in a bus bombing in Gaza 
in 1995 and Sara Duker of Teaneck, 
New Jersey, who was murdered on a 
bus in Jerusalem in 1996? Who speaks 
for them, for those innocents and their 
families? This bill does. 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. HURD), a member of the Committee 
on Homeland Security. 

Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise in support of this legislation. Justice 
is a powerful word. For those who 
have been wronged, justice can bring 
peace and closure. For those guilty of 
harming the innocent, justice is absolutely 
necessary to ensure the authority 
of our laws. Without justice, truth 
becomes irrelevant. 

If America is going to continue to be 
the greatest nation in the world, it is 
imperative that we pursue justice. But 
the Iran nuclear deal does the exact opposite. 
It rewards lawlessness and corruption. 
It tells Iran that they can be 
unjust to our own citizens and the current 
administration will allow them to 
get away with it. 

Iran is responsible for sponsoring terrorism 
that has led to the death of 
thousands of Americans. When the 
families of these Americans sought justice 
in the court, Iran was found guilty 
and ordered to make reparations. The 
family of Cyrus Elahi from Dallas, 
Texas, was awarded more than $300 
million after Cyrus was assassinated 
for criticizing the Iranian Government. 

Judgments like this have added up to 
billions of dollars that Iran owes the 
families of American victims. But is 
this administration forcing Iran to 
pay? Are they demanding justice for 
Americans like Cyrus? No. Instead, 
this administration is handing over an 
estimated $100 billion to Iran. That is 
not justice. That is outrageous. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Ohio 
(Mr. WENSTRUP). 

Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Speaker, this 
bill would respond to one of many significant 
problems with President 
Obama’s disastrous Iran deal, which 
gives Iran sanctions relief without requiring 
it to make reparations for the 
crimes it has committed against Americans. 


Anne Dammerell, who was born in 
Cincinnati near my district, was working 
at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut in 
1983. A bomb exploded while she was in 
the embassy cafeteria, breaking 19 of 
her bones. She received a judgment 
against Iran for $6.8 million because of 
the physical and mental suffering she 
endured. Anne is one tragic story 
among many. 

Over the past 15 years, U.S. courts 
have handed down 80 judgments 
against Iran, adding up to more than 

$43.5 billion in unpaid damages. Iran refuses 
to pay. Yet, the President’s nuclear 
agreement provides Iran with $150 
billion in sanctions relief. Those that 
have destroyed innocent American 
lives, Iranian terrorists, are being chosen 
over the American victims themselves. 


This bill would prohibit the President 
from removing any sanctions in 
place against Iran until the President 
has certified to Congress that Iran has 
paid each Federal court judgment. 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I continue 
to reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. FITZPATRICK). 

Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank my colleague from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. MEEHAN) for introducing this good 
bill. It is a compassionate bill. It is a 
bill that tells victims of terrorism that 
they are not forgotten. 

I chair the task force in the House 
Committee on Financial Services to investigate 
terrorism finance, and we had 
a hearing specifically on the joint plan 
of action, the so-called P5+1. That was 
back in July. 

There was an attorney who testified 
at the hearing about the $43 billion in 
judgments and how this deal, then not 
approved yet, was likely going to sidestep 
the ability of victims who did all 
the right things through the legal process, 
who hired lawyers, who went to 
court, who got the judgments, legitimate 
judgments, how these judgments 
would not be paid. 

On July 29, I wrote a letter to Secretary 
Lew—Secretary of the Treas-
ury—and Secretary Kerry of the State 
Department asking whether or not 
they had addressed the issue as part of 
the negotiations. That was July 29. I 
have yet to receive a response from the 
Treasury Department, from the Department 
of State, in any way. 

Mr. Speaker, the deafening silence of 
this administration has led me to believe 
that they completely overlooked 
the victims of terrorism. 

What we are going to do is we are 
going to give the money to the Islamic 
Republic of Iran and not to American 
victims, and that is wrong. This bill is 
right. I urge my colleagues to support 
it. 

Mr. Speaker, as the chair of the bipartisan 
Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, 
I analyzed the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
Action (JCPOA) put forward by this Administration 
at length. 

After numerous hearings and research, I opposed 
the deal for a number of reasons—not 
the least of which is because of its potential 
impact on terrorism financing by Iran. At hearing 
after hearing, members heard directly from 
foreign policy experts about this threat and the 
danger of the influx of cash provided by this 
agreement finding its way to terrorist organizations 
threatening Iran’s neighboring states as 
well as those planning strikes in the United 
States. 

At a hearing specifically on this deal and its 
impact on Tehran’s state sponsorship of terror, 
one witness, a practicing attorney, testified to 


H6766 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

the fact that American citizens and families 
who were victims of Iranian sponsored terrorist 
attacks—including families in my district in 
Pennsylvania—are owed over $43 billion in 
compensation as awarded by United States. 

Following the Task Force’s fourth hearing I 
wrote this letter to both Secretaries John Kerry 
and Jack Lew asking if this nuclear deal would 
strip victims of Iranian terrorism the right to 
this compensation. 

That was July 29. I have yet to receive any 
sort of response from either the Treasury or 
State departments. The deafening silence 
from the Administration has led me to believe 
they completely overlooked these families 
when they rushed to finalize this bad deal with 
Iran. 

Mr. Speaker, it is unconscionable to think 
that—as a nation—we would allow the world’s 
largest state sponsor of terror access to billions 
of dollars in sanctions relief and 
unfreezing of held assets while victims of Iranian 
terrorism are left with nothing. 

These victims are Americans from all 
around the country—from my home and yours. 
They’ve lost loved ones and suffered irreparable 
damages because of Iran’s long, sordid 
history with terrorism. By failing to take this situation 
into account throughout the negotiation 
process, the administration has failed these 
victims and their families. 

The Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism 
Act we are considering today rights that 
wrong. It says simply: Not one cent in sanctions 
relief for Iran until these families are 
payed. That’s not a partisan demand—that’s 
common sense. 

I strongly support this legislation and ask for 
my colleagues to join me in standing up for 
our constituents impacted by Iranian terror and 
pass this bill in the bipartisan fashion it deserves. 


Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from North 
Carolina (Mr. HOLDING), a member of 
the Committee on Ways and Means. 

Mr. HOLDING. Mr. Speaker, Iran is 
shortly set to receive over $100 billion 
when President Obama uses his pen to 
lift our sanctions against the world’s 
largest sponsor of terrorism. At the 
same time, Mr. Speaker, Iran owes U.S. 
victims of terror it sponsored and supported 
$43.5 billion. 

One of these victims was Petty Officer 
1st Class Michael Wagner of Columbia, 
North Carolina. He was serving in 
the American Embassy in Beirut in 
1984 when a car bomb filled with explosives 
paid for by Iran detonated outside 
his office, killing him and 23 other people. 
In the case of Petty Officer Wagner 
and Tehran’s other victims, our courts 
have found Iran guilty and ordered Iran 
to pay restitution, but Iran has not 
paid a penny. 

Mr. Speaker, we should require Iran 
to pay every penny it owes to the victims 
of terrorism before sanctions are 
lifted, period. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Mississippi 
(Mr. HARPER), a member of the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce. 

Mr. HARPER. Mr. Speaker, I am and 
will remain opposed to the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action on Iran. It 
represents Iran’s ability to build a nu


clear weapon at a future date while 
reaping the financial benefits of immediate 
relief from international sanctions. 
By removing sanctions, the 
agreement injects almost $100 billion 
into the Iranian regime. 

Iran is the single largest state sponsor 
of terrorism in the world, funding— 
even with sanctions in place— 
Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in 
Gaza. Over $43 billion in judgments 
have been awarded to Americans who 
have been the victims of Iranian terrorism. 
The agreement fails to clear 
those judgments. 

The agreement, at best, delays Iran’s 
ability to build nuclear weapons. At 
worst, it gives the regime more money 
to engage in more terrorism while providing 
no justice to Americans already 
harmed by the regime. 

The Justice for Victims of Iranian 
Terrorism Act is timely. It is appropriate, 
and it should be supported by 
every member of this body who believe 
in the validity of U.S. courts and the 
Federal Sovereign Immunities Act. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Arkansas 
(Mr. HILL), a member of the Committee 
on Financial Services. 

b 1130 

Mr. HILL. I thank Mr. MEEHAN for 
his leadership on this, and I thank the 
ranking member and the chairman for 
their opposition to the Iranian agreement, 
which I believe was ill-conceived 
and not enough time given for those 
negotiations to bear true fruit. In fact, 
that is the whole point of our debate 
today. The maximum amount of negotiating 
clout that the United States 
had over these sanctions was during 
these negotiations, before we released 
sanctions, before Iran gets access to 
their monthly oil flow and their $100 
billion. 

We have $44 billion and 85 judgments. 
The number of intelligence agents that 
have worked day and night to adjudicate 
these claims in court, the number 
of FBI agents involved, the Federal 
Government’s obligation to generate 
awards for these victims, and yet this 
administration has never raised it in 
public in regard to the Iranian agreement. 


Under the 1996 and 2008 Federal Sovereign 
Immunities Act, the President 
of the United States is obligated to 
seek resolution for these claims. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
GRAVES of Louisiana). The time of the 
gentleman has expired. 

Mr. ROYCE. I yield the gentleman an 
additional 1 minute. 

Mr. HILL. He is obligated to adjudicate 
these claims and seek restitution 
for these victims under the Federal 
Sovereign Immunities Act. President 
Bush did his duty. When he had leverage 
over Libya, he got the claims 
paid for the victims of terror in Libya. 

For every day we come to work in 
this House and we ask, ‘‘What can we 
do to help this country? How can we 
right a wrong?’’ today is that day. 

I urge my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle to support Mr. MEEHAN’s outstanding 
bill. Let’s right the wrong. 
Let’s adjudicate these claims. Let’s get 
this money back for the victims of terrorism. 


Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 
minute to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. COSTELLO). 

Mr. COSTELLO of Pennsylvania. A 
majority of this House thinks this deal 
is bad, a majority of the Senate thinks 
this deal is bad, and a majority of the 
American people think this deal is bad. 
We have not had any input, and the effort 
here today is to simply make a bad 
deal a little less bad. 

The idea behind Mr. MEEHAN’s bill is 
to provide restitution to American victims. 
It is not just any American victims. 
It is the victims of Iranian terror. 
$150 billion is going to flow to Iran. 
It seems to be common sense that the 
first $43 billion should instead be paid 
to the victims of Iranian terror. 

Joseph Cicippio was one of those victims. 
He lived right outside my congressional 
district. He spent 5 years in 
brutal captivity before being released 
in 1991. 

A vote for this bill today is a vote for 
the victims of Iranian terror. 

I also want to say Congressman MEEHAN’s 
congressional district is right 
next to mine. I want to thank him for 
his thoughtful, creative approach and 
his leadership in this country and in 
this House on this bill. 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I continue 
to reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. ROYCE. I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. COFFMAN). 


Mr. COFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, in 1982, 
I was with the United States Marine 
Corps off the coast of Beirut, Lebanon, 
waiting on orders to do evacuations of 
the U.S. Embassy and U.S. citizens and 
their families. Our assignment was 
done in August of 1982. We returned to 
the United States. I finished my 2 
years with the battalion. 

The battalion went back out. This 
time, they took positions in the airport 
in Beirut, Lebanon. On October 23, 1983, 
a suicide bomber drove a truck laden 
with explosives into the marine barracks; 
241 marines were killed that 
day. 

To my friends who died there—First 
Lieutenant Bill Zimmerman, Captain 
Bill Winter, Captain Joe Boccia, Master 
Sergeant Roy Edwards, Captain 
Mike Haskell—today is your day. 
Today is your day for justice. God bless 
you. God remember all of you. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield the 
gentleman an additional 30 seconds. 

Mr. COFFMAN. Today is the day for 
justice for these marines—and their 
families—who were lost on that day by 
the Iranian-backed Hezbollah bomber. 

So I want to thank the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania for bringing this 
measure forward. I urge my colleagues 
not to forget those who have died and 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6767 

to remember this: when the Iranians 
say ‘‘death to Americans,’’ they mean 
death to Americans. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members 
are reminded to direct their remarks 
to the Chair. 

Mr. ROYCE. I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. BISHOP). 

Mr. BISHOP of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise today to join my colleagues to 
support this legislation. I want to 
thank the gentleman for his sponsorship. 
I am proud to be a cosponsor. 

Thirty-one years ago, one Michigan 
family’s sleepless worry became a 
heartbreaking reality. Their son, 
brother, and father, U.S. Army Warrant 
Officer Kenneth Welch, was one of 
two U.S. servicemen to lose his life in 
the bombing in Beirut, Lebanon. 

U.S. judgments later found that the 
act of terrorism was sponsored by the 
Iranian regime. For its crimes, that regime 
was ordered to pay damages to 
the family of Kenneth Welch. Not surprisingly, 
however, not one dime has 
been paid to the family. Yet today, in 
this country, we find ourselves dealing 
with an administration that wants to 
lift sanctions. 
Mr. Speaker, I am beside myself to 
think that this is the Nation that we 
have become. America is built on bravery 
and freedom, and that is because of 
the unwavering strength and sacrifice 
of men and women in the military. I 
am forever proud of our soldiers, and I 
know my colleagues here today are, 
too. That is why we cannot let the Iran 
terror continue. We need to do whatever 
we can to address the victims like 
Ken Welch. 

Mr. ROYCE. I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. DOLD). 

Mr. DOLD. I thank my good friend 
from California, the chairman, for 
yielding me the time. I also want to 
thank my good friend from Pennsylvania 
for bringing this piece of legislation. 


Supporting victims of Iranian terrorism 
is a cause that every single 
Member of this body should be able to 
support, regardless of where they stand 
on the Iranian nuclear agreement. 
Under no circumstances should we be 
ignoring the victims of Iran’s terrorism 
while simultaneously rewarding the 
greatest state sponsor of terror the 
world has seen. 

Make no mistake, under this administration’s 
agreement with Iran, Iran 
will be receiving approximately $150 
billion in sanctions relief—in new funding—
almost immediately, while American 
victims of Iranian terrorism, 
whether it be bombings, kidnappings, 
murder, and the like, are basically 
going without resources. 

Where are our priorities? Where are 
our priorities in this Chamber when 
the victims of Iranian terror are being 
ignored while Iran is being rewarded 
with new funds that will inevitably be 
used to fund new terror—Hezbollah, 
Hamas, and those around the globe? 

Iran’s terror proxies have killed 
Americans and continue to do so to 

this day. This is a fact that cannot be 
ignored. I certainly hope that my colleagues 
on both sides of the aisle will 
support this piece of legislation. 

Mr. ROYCE. I yield 1 minute to the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
ROTHFUS). 

Mr. ROTHFUS. I thank my colleague, 
Mr. MEEHAN from Pennsylvania, 
for introducing this very important 
piece of legislation. 

The President’s nuclear agreement 
with Iran provides them with billions 
in frozen assets and sanctions relief. 
One needs only to look at recent history 
to know exactly what Iran will do 
with this financial windfall. 

While pursuing a nuclear bomb, Iran 
has been engaged in a decades-long 
campaign of terror that resulted in the 
deaths of many, many Americans. 
They continue to bankroll proxies like 
Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Houthi 
rebels. 

Atrocities like the Beirut marine 
barracks bombing, the murder of 
Bobby Stethem on TWA flight 847, 
Khobar Towers, and the kidnapping of 
CIA Agent William Buckley, are just a 
small taste of what Iranian state-sponsored 
terrorism has wrought. 

This bill is about everyday Americans 
getting justice. Americans like 
the family of Beaver County native 
Major John Macroglou, the highest 
ranking officer killed in the attack on 
the Beirut marine barracks. 

Victims of Iranian terrorism have 
successfully brought suit in U.S. 
courts, yet billions in judgments remain 
unpaid. The Obama administration 
failed to secure restitution for the 
victims of Iran in its negotiations with 
this country, but this legislation can 
rectify this wrong. 

I urge my colleagues to support this 
legislation. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire 
as to how much time is remaining. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from California has 21/2 minutes 
remaining. The gentleman from New 
York has 171/2 minutes remaining. 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

In closing, let me say to my friends 
on the other side of the aisle, and they 
know this, no one has been more of an 
adversary of the Iranian regime than I 
have, but a number of us found the deal 
with Iran wanting. We voted ‘‘no,’’ but 
it didn’t prevail, and now we have to 
figure out the best way forward. The 
best way forward, I sincerely believe, is 
not to keep trotting out these bills. 

No one is condoning anything that 
Iran has done, particularly with terrorism. 
It is a matter of how we combat 
it. The way I see it is that we have 
two paths forward: we can choose to 
mirror what we did with the Affordable 
Care Act, voting and revoting on an 
issue that has been settled to some degree, 
or we can choose the path that 
suits our Nation’s interests the best. 
This path includes doing everything we 
can to strengthen the enforcement 
mechanisms of this agreement. 

The path also includes holding Iran 
accountable for its nefarious activities 
that destabilize the region, as well as 
pushing Tehran to release detained 
Americans and improve their human 
rights records in the interim, and, of 
course, taking care of the victims of 
terrorism and their families. This path 
requires the strengthening of bilateral 
partnerships and supporting our allies 
in the region, both of which help us in 
the long term. 

This is the course I hope we take. We 
cannot let this opportunity go to 
waste. So that is why I won’t be supporting 
H.R. 3457. After that, we need 
to work together on measures that 
strengthen implementation of the 
agreement as much as possible. 

I hope we can do that in a bipartisan 
way, as we have for the past 3 years in 
the Foreign Affairs Committee. This 
path promises to bring us back to making 
foreign policy rather than using political 
bills that deflect from the important 
issues at hand. 

I do not doubt the sincerity of anyone 
who spoke today. We all are sincere 
and we all feel the same way: Iran 
is a bad actor and must be held accountable. 
But this bill is not the correct 
mechanism to do so, so I urge my 
colleagues to vote ‘‘no.’’ 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. ROYCE. I yield myself such time 
as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, consider the case of 
Anne Dammarell, a USAID worker who 
was posted in the U.S. Embassy in Beirut 
in 1983. At 1 p.m. on April 18, a suicide 
bomber in a delivery van drove 
2,000 pounds of explosives into the front 
door of our U.S. Embassy and the blast 
demolished the front of the building 
and caused the upper floors to collapse 
on top of each other. 

When that went off, she was eating 
lunch in the Embassy cafeteria until 
suddenly she awoke outside, covered in 
cement, with 19 bones broken. Sixty-
three people were killed in that blast. 

Now we have a moral obligation to 
ensure that these judgments for these 
victims, which represent Iran’s legal 
debt to the victims of its official policy 
of terrorism, are paid. There have been 
90 such attacks on Americans, and this 
legislation helps us fulfill that moral 
obligation we have to our constituents 
and to all Americans. 

What I will share with you is that it 
is not going to work to release the $100 
billion first, because that $100 billion 
goes into the hands of the IRGC. They 
are the ones who have taken over the 
companies in Iran as of 1979, and the 
Iranian Revolutionary Guard forces 
and the Quds forces are the ones that 
carried out these attacks. 

So the only leverage we are going to 
have in this negotiation is if we pass 
legislation that says, first, you have 
got $20 billion in reserves. Start the 
process of paying the victims of that 
attack. 

b 1145 
If we don’t get them paid now, if we 
don’t get the survivors and the family 


H6768 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

members of those who were killed paid 
now, it will never happen later. 

But more importantly, at least we 
would do this. If we are going to give 
$100 billion out of escrow into the 
hands of the IRGC, what do you think 
they are going to do with it? 

They have already announced $20 billion 
in sales to Russia for fighter 
planes. They have already announced 
the money, $100 million, that they are 
going to give to Hezbollah. 

Why not at least get our own civilians 
paid the judgments that they 
earned up front? 

That is exactly what we did with the 
Lockerbie agreement. We were going to 
lift the sanctions or allow the return of 
the escrowed money to Libya. Right? 

$2.5 billion had to go to the victims 
and the family members killed in the 
Pan Am 103 bombing because of the 
judgment in U.S. courts. 

This needs to be done under that procedure. 
That is why this legislation is 
necessary. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in strong opposition to H.R. 3457, the 
‘‘Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act.’’ 

If enacted into law, H.R. 3457 would prevent 
the United States from implementing its sanctions 
relief commitments under the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action (JCPOA) reached 
between the P5+1 countries, the European 
Union (EU), and Iran by tying the Administration’s 
ability to fulfill its commitments to non-
nuclear issues that are outside the scope of 
the JCPOA. 

Mr. Speaker, this bill has absolutely no 
chance of becoming law because President 
Obama has already announced he will veto it 
if presented to him for signature. 

And that is as it should be since this ill-considered 
and unwise bill comes to floor without 
being vetted by any of the committees of jurisdiction. 


The bill was not considered by the Judiciary 
Committee or its Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, 
Homeland Security, and Investigations, 
of which I serve as Ranking Member and 
which has jurisdiction over issues federal lawsuits 
and compensation involving victims of 
terrorist acts. 

Nor was the bill considered by the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs, even though that 
committee has held several hearings relating 
to violent extremism and terrorists acts. 

In the month of September alone, the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs held six hearings that 
addressed some aspect of terrorism and violent 
extremism, not one of which involved H.R. 
3457 or the subject matter raised in the legislation. 


Given its adverse impact on the JCPOA, 
one would have thought that this legislation 
would have been fully vetted before being 
rushed to the floor, and this lack of careful 
scrutiny is sufficient in itself to vote against 
this bill. 

Mr. Speaker, let me be clear: I am, and long 
have been, a strong supporter and advocate 
for adequate compensation for victims of terrorism 
sponsored or supported by foreign 
states. 

For example, I have fought for compensation 
for the victims of Boko Haram, the Lord’s 

Resistance Army, ISIL and Al-Shabaab from 
Nigeria, to Syria, to Kenya, to name just a 
few. 

I have requested the Attorney General of 
the United States to take action to secure relief 
for thousands of victims of terror from different 
regions of the world. 

But I have never advocated or supported 
actions to achieve this result that puts the national 
security at risk. 

And that is why I cannot support H.R. 3457. 

By obstructing implementation of the 
JCPOA, H.R. 3457 would greatly undermine 
our national security interests and likely would 
result in the collapse of the comprehensive 
diplomatic arrangement that peacefully and 
verifiably prevents Iran from acquiring a nuclear 
weapon. 

This would in turn allow for the resumption 
of a significantly less constrained Iranian nuclear 
program, lead to the unraveling of the 
international sanctions regime against Iran, 
and deal a devastating blow to America’s 
credibility as a leader of international diplomacy. 


This would have the collateral effect of jeopardizing 
both the hard work of sustaining a 
unified coalition to combat Iran’s destabilizing 
activities in the region and America’s ability to 
lead the world on nuclear non-proliferation. 

Mr. Speaker, the Administration supports efforts 
by U.S. terrorism victims to pursue compensation, 
consistent with our national security. 


It bears pointing out that nothing in the 
JCPOA prohibits or impedes those efforts. 

Mr. Speaker, we have called Iran 
untrustworthy because it has not always lived 
up to its commitments. 

What would it say about the United States 
and its reputation of being an honest broker 
and trustworthy partner if we reneged on a 
carefully and painstakingly negotiated agreement 
before the ink barely had time to dry? 

The single and overriding purpose of the 
JCPOA was to address the international community’s 
concern over Iran’s nuclear program 
and the need to verifiably prevent Iran from 
acquiring a nuclear weapon. 

This goal is achieved by the JCPOA this objective 
is undermined by H.R. 3457. 

After all our hearings and thoughtful deliberations 
on the JCPOA, it defies reason to collapse 
the historic and landmark diplomatic 
success that created the framework for a 
peaceful and verifiable methodology to prevent 
Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. 

For these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I strongly 
oppose H.R. 3457 and urge all Members to 
join me in voting against this unwise measure. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time 
for debate has expired. 

Pursuant to House Resolution 449, 
the previous question is ordered on the 
bill, as amended. 

The question is on the engrossment 
and third reading of the bill. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, and was read the 
third time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the passage of the bill. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, on that I 
demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 of rule XX, further proceedings 
on this question will be postponed. 


f 

CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.R. 1735, 

NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA


TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2016 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, 
pursuant to House Resolution 449, I 
call up the conference report on the 
bill (H.R. 1735) to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2016 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes, and ask 
for its immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 449, the conference 
report is considered read. 

(For conference report and statement, 
see proceedings of the House of 
September 29, 2015, at page H6337.) 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. THORNBERRY) 
and the gentleman from Washington 
(Mr. SMITH) each will control 30 minutes. 


The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Texas. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in 
which to revise and extend their remarks 
and insert extraneous material 
on the conference report to accompany 
H.R. 1735. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself 5 minutes. 

Mr. Speaker, the first and most important 
thing I can say today is that 
this conference report is good for the 
troops and it is good for the country, 
and nothing that I or anybody else is 
going to say in this next hour is going 
to be more important than that one 
basic proposition. 

Now, we may hear a variety of excuses, 
ifs, ands and buts about this, 
that or the other thing, and I certainly 
don’t agree with every provision in this 
conference report. 

But in pulling this bill together, I 
had to put aside personal preferences 
and party considerations and other 
things because getting a bill passed and 
enacted that is good for the troops and 
good for the country is more important 
than anything else. 

The second point I want to make is 
that this bill is the product of work 
from Members from both sides of the 
aisle and both sides of the Capitol. 
About half of the amendments that 
were adopted in committee and on the 
floor were from Democratic Members. 

Democratic conferees played a substantial 
role in shaping this final conference 
report. And if you look at the 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6769 

substance of what is in the bill, you 
can see major contributions from both 
sides. 

As a matter of fact, we hear a lot 
these days about regular order. Well, 
this bill went through regular order 
through the committee, with 211 
amendments that were adopted on the 
floor, when 131 amendments were 
adopted through a regular conference, 
with a Senate-passed bill for the first 
time in years, and now it is back here 
for approval. 

So after going through regular order 
and all that that entails, if there is 
still partisan opposition, it leads some 
to ask why. Why bother? 

The third point I want to make, Mr. 
Speaker, is just a reminder to Members 
that this is a dangerous world, and it is 
getting more dangerous by the minute. 
Just look at the headlines that are in 
today’s papers. 

Russia has conducted airstrikes in 
Syria not against ISIS, but against the 
moderate opposition forces, and Russia 
is telling us, the United States, when 
and where we can fly our airplanes in 
Syria. 

Meanwhile, the Palestinians have decided 
they are going to back away from 
all the agreements that they have with 
Israel. 

Meanwhile, the Taliban is on the 
move in Afghanistan, and U.S. American 
troops are sent in to help turn the 
tide. That doesn’t even count the 
things that are happening in Ukraine, 
North Korea, Iran, China building islands 
out in the Pacific. 

So the point of that is that this is no 
time for political games. This is the 
time to come together and pass a bill 
that helps provide for the country’s security. 
I think that is exactly what 
this bill does. 

Mr. Speaker, this bill authorizes the 
exact amount of money that the President 
requested for national defense. 
Now, we did not agree with every single 
program request. 

We made some different judgments, 
like preserving the A–10, and it is being 
used today in the Middle East. We 
thought we needed not to retire some 
of the ships that the President wanted 
to retire. So there were some adjustments. 
But at the end of the day, the 
total is exactly the amount the President 
asked for. 

Now, some of those programs are 
under different labels. But, frankly, 
whether you call it base funding, OCO 
funding, or pumpernickel—it doesn’t 
matter—it is money that goes to the 
troops. 

If you are a U.S. soldier today on the 
ground in Iraq or Afghanistan or if you 
are a soldier, sailor, airman, or marine 
who are supporting them from the 
United States or anywhere else, do you 
really care what the label on the 
money is? What you care about is that 
the money to help for provide your operation 
and maintenance is provided. 

Of course, there are many other parts 
of this bill, Mr. Speaker: acquisition 
reform, which is a significant first step 

to make sure the taxpayers get more 
value for the money they spend; personnel 
reform, including a new retirement 
system. 

Today 83 percent of the people who 
serve in the military walk away with 
no retirement at all. That changes 
under this bill. 

So Members who are going to vote 
against this bill are going to tell 83 
percent of the people who serve in the 
military: You are going to continue to 
walk away with nothing. 

This bill requires the DOD and VA to 
have a joint formulary for sleep disorders, 
pain management, and mental 
health issues. We have been told those 
are some of the most important steps 
we can take. 

It takes additional steps to combat 
sexual assault. It authorizes defensive 
weapons for Ukraine. It gives the 
President more tools to battle ISIS in 
Iraq, to provide weapons directly to the 
Kurds and Sunni forces. 

We take steps to help defend this 
country against missiles. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself an additional 30 seconds. 

We take steps in this bill to help defend 
our country against missile attacks, 
which is particularly important 
now that Iran is going to have a bunch 
more money to put into their missiles. 
But what we also do is support the 
Israeli missile defense program with 
more money than was asked for by the 
President. 

So, Mr. Speaker, my point is this bill 
is good for the troops and it is good for 
the country, and that ought to override 
everything else. It should be passed 
today. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield myself 5 minutes. 

First of all, let me agree on two 
points with the chairman. There is a 
lot that is good in this bill. There is no 
question about that. And I want to 
thank the chairman for his leadership 
in making that happen. 

I think the conference committee 
process was a model for how the conference 
committee is supposed to go. 
The minority was included. There was 
robust debate about a large number of 
issues. There were points when we 
thought we couldn’t resolve them and 
we did. And I think there is a lot that 
is good in this bill. 

I also think, without question, without 
debate, that this is a very, very 
dangerous time for our country. No 
doubt about it. The chairman laid out 
some of the challenges—there are 
many, many more—with what is going 
on in the Middle East, certainly with 
Russia, with how we deal with China. It 
is a very challenging time for national 
security, and we need to be as strong as 
we possibly can. 

But the one area where I disagree— 
and I think the chairman also correctly 
states the fundamental question: 
Is this good for our country? Is it good 
for our troops? 

I don’t believe that it is. It is not 
good for our country, and it is not good 
for our troops. It does, in fact, matter 
where the money comes from for a couple 
of reasons. 

First of all, by the budget gimmick 
that the Budget Committee in the 
House and the Senate put together, by 
using overseas contingency operations 
funds for things that are not overseas 
contingency operations funds—and this 
was all done as a dodge to get around 
doing what we need to do, which is to 
lift the budget caps. Because, you see, 
the OCO funding, for some reason is 
not counted as real money. It is 
money. It is $38 billion. 

But it enables the conservatives in 
the Republican Party to say that they 
have maintained the budget caps while 
still spending $38 billion more dollars, 
which is incredibly hypocritical and a 
terrible way to budget. 

But here are two reasons why that is 
bad for our country and bad for our 
troops. Number one, it does not lift the 
budget caps. These budget caps are in 
place, I believe, for another 9 or 8 
years. Unless we lift those budget caps, 
we are harming our troops and we are 
harming our country. 

This bill dodging that issue is precisely 
a national security issue because, 
until we lift those caps, the Department 
of Defense has no idea how 
much money they are going to have. 
All right? 

OCO is one-time money. That is why 
it is not as good as lifting the budget 
caps and giving the ability to do the 5-
and 10-year planning that they do, to 
do multi-year projects so that they can 
actually have a plan going forward. 
That hurts national security. 

The inability to raise the budget caps 
in this bill and appropriations process 
is a critical blow to our troops and to 
our national security. 

The second reason this is important 
is because the OCO funding that is in 
this bill is not going to happen; all 
right? 

Part of it is because the President is 
going to veto it. But the larger part of 
it is the Senate, as they have been unable 
to do for a number of years, has 
not passed any appropriations bills because 
they have rejected their own 
budget resolution. 

So this $38 billion in OCO funding 
that we are going to hear about, all 
this great money, is not going to happen 
because the appropriators have 
said it is not going to happen. 

So to have a national defense authorizing 
bill with $38 billion in imaginary 
money is not good for our troops and it 
is not good for our country. We need to 
lift the budget caps. We need to spend 
the money that we need to spend on 
national security. 

I will also say that there are other 
pieces of national security, because the 
budget caps remain in place for the Department 
of Homeland Security. They 
remain in place for the Department of 
Justice. They remain in place for the 
Department of the Treasury, three 


H6770 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

agencies that play a critical role in national 
security for this country, in 
tracking the money of terrorists, in 
protecting the homeland, in making 
sure that we can try and convict terrorists 
when we catch them. 

So it is not good for the country to 
maintain those budget caps, and that is 
what this bill does. It also relies on 
money that simply isn’t going to be 
there by having this imaginary OCO 
funding. 

The second way I think this bill is 
not good for the troops and not good 
for the country is something that the 
chairman alluded to, and that is there 
are restrictions on what the Pentagon 
can do by way of saving money. 

The chairman mentioned the A–10, 
but there are a whole host of other 
things the Pentagon has proposed as a 
way to save money and spend it more 
efficiently, which, over the course of 
the last 2 or 3 years, we have blocked 
almost every attempt, not every attempt. 


On personnel savings, we have made 
changes in the retirement system. We 
have made changes in the healthcare 
system. We saved no money for 10 
years. For 10 years we saved no money 
in personnel costs while the Pentagon 
tells us that, to be able to properly 
train our troops to get them ready to 
go to battle, they need personnel cost 
savings. 

If we don’t give them that savings, 
last year, next year, this year, in the 
future, they will not have the money 
for readiness that they need to train 
and equip our troops. So that is not 
good for the country. 

There are a number of other provision 
areas—well, BRAC would be a big 
one. We have seen our Army and Marine 
Corps shrink substantially. We 
have seen our entire military shrink 
substantially. We haven’t closed any 
bases. That is not good for the country, 
to not find savings there so that we can 
spend it on training our troops. 

b 1200 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. I yield 
myself an additional 30 seconds. 

Over the course of the last 2 or 3 
years, we have wound up authorizing 
and appropriating here in Congress 
substantially less money for readiness 
than the President, now, not this year, 
assuming you imagine that this OCO 
money is actually going to appear. 

The bulk of the OCO money makes up 
for the readiness gap. But, again, that 
OCO money isn’t going to be there. So 
I don’t think this bill is good for our 
country or good for our troops. 

I do agree with the chairman that 
that is the criteria on which it should 
be judged. But I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Virginia (Mr. FORBES), the chair of the 
Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection 
Forces. 

Mr. FORBES. I thank the chairman 
for his hard work on this bill and 
bringing it to the floor. 

Mr. Speaker, as we listen today, one 
of the things that you really won’t 
hear outside of this room is anybody 
challenging the substance of this bill. 
In fact, the opponents of this bill time 
and time again say what a really good 
bill it is. 

You won’t hear anyone challenging 
the partisanship of this bill because 
they will praise Chairman THORNBERRY 
for the bipartisan product he has 
brought to the floor. 

You won’t hear them saying it is not 
the right amount of money in here, 
that it is too much or too little, because 
it is almost exactly the dollar 
amount that the President requested. 

And you won’t hear them say that 
they took this money from another priority 
because they agree this is the 
amount of money that should be spent 
on national defense. 

The sole reason this bill is being opposed 
today and the sole reason the 
President is going to veto it is because 
he wants to use national defense as a 
bartering chip to get everything he 
wants for the IRS, the EPA, and all of 
the other political agendas that he has. 

Can you imagine, as Chairman 
THORNBERRY mentioned, how strong he 
looks around the globe when he says 
America is going to be strong, yet he 
vetoes the bill that authorizes the national 
defense of this country and gives 
him almost everything he wants. 

The President and the opponents of 
this bill also need to realize that, if 
they defeat this bill, they will also defeat 
the construction of three destroyers, 
two attack subs, three small surface 
combatants, an amphibious ship, 
and they will delay the Air Force 
bomber and tanker programs. 

Mr. Speaker, it is time we stop using 
national defense as some kind of political 
poker chip that can be gambled 
away. It is time we pass this bill. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield myself 1 minute. 

First of all, I very specifically challenge 
the substance of this bill. The 
OCO funding and the way it is funding 
is not good for national security and 
not good for our troops. The substance 
of the bill is precisely the issue and 
what it does for defense or does not do 
for defense. That is why using the OCO 
funding is the exact wrong way to go. 

The other thing I will say is I am 
quite confident that we will get a bill. 
Because that is the interesting thing 
about this argument. 

As I have pointed out, the appropriators 
in the Senate have already rejected 
the OCO funding. So this $38 billion 
that we have in here is gone, done, 
poof, not going to happen. All right? 

We are going to have to have a further 
debate about that in the Appropriations 
Committee to actually fund 
any of the stuff that we are talking 
about in this bill. I am confident that 
we will have that debate. I wish I could 
be more confident that it will come out 
in a positive way. 

We need to lift the budget caps. We 
actually need to pass appropriations 
bills and not shut the government 
down. We will see what happens on December 
11. 

But when that happens, we can pass 
this bill. We are not going to not pass 
the NDAA. We just need to pass it the 
right way so it actually helps our country 
and actually funds the programs 
that we are talking about. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself 30 seconds. 

Mr. Speaker, I think the gentleman 
from Washington really makes the case 
when he talks about appropriations, 
OCO will not happen that way. 

This is not an appropriations bill. He 
is exactly right. There is more to do to 
figure all of that out. But that is not a 
reason to vote against this bill. This 
bill can’t fix what he is complaining 
about. But it does do something. My 
point is why not do what it can. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. 
WILSON), the distinguished chairman of 
the Subcommittee on Emerging 
Threats and Capabilities. 

Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. I 
thank the chairman. 

Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to support 
the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 and also thank 
Chairman MAC THORNBERRY for his 
leadership and hard work in bringing 
this important bill and conference report 
to the floor with bipartisan support. 


I appreciate serving as the chairman 
of the Emerging Threats and Capabilities 
Subcommittee to oversee some of 
the most important aspects of the Department 
of Defense. The subcommittee’s 
portion of the bill represents a 
comprehensive and bipartisan product. 
For this reason, it is sad that some of 
our Democratic colleagues may vote 
against this bill and, worse, that the 
President is threatening a veto. 

Mr. Speaker, a veto or a vote against 
this bipartisan bill is a vote against security 
for American families and a vote 
against every member of the armed 
services and its military families. 

It would be a vote against authorizations 
that would strengthen our cyber 
defense capabilities. It would be a vote 
against counterterrorism programs and 
resources for our special operations 
forces currently fighting overseas. It 
would be a vote against reform efforts 
and programs that would ensure America 
maintains superiority in all areas 
of science and technology. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues 
across the aisle to support this bipartisan 
National Defense Authorization 
Act and for the President to sign this 
important piece of legislation that will 
soon cross his desk. 

A vote or veto against this measure 
is, simply put, a vote endangering 
American families and a vote against 
the American-dedicated servicemembers 
who mean so much to our country. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. I yield 
myself 1 minute just to make two 
quick points. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6771 

Mr. Speaker, first of all, we will have 
a motion to recommit that takes the 
money out of OCO and puts it into the 
base budget. So this is a problem that 
our bill could fix. 

We didn’t have to buy into the OCO 
dodge and put money in there that we 
knew wasn’t going to exist. Our motion 
to recommit will make that obvious. 
We will simply take it out of OCO. We 
will put it in the base budget so that 
you can do long-term planning with it 
and so that we actually get out from 
under the budget caps. 

The second point that I will make is 
that the previous speaker said that 
voting against the Defense bill was all 
of those bad things. Well, people have 
voted against the Defense bill. 

In 2009 and 2010, all but seven or eight 
Members of the Republican Party 
voted against the Defense bill. They 
voted against the defense bill because 
they didn’t like Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell 
in one instance and because they didn’t 
like adding LGBT people to hate 
crimes in the other instance. 

So they all were perfectly willing to 
vote against the troops and do all of 
the awful things that the previous 
speaker said for social policy reasons 
that had nothing to do with defense. 

So voting against the defense bill 
does not mean that you don’t support 
the troops, and that is proof because 
most of the people who are now saying 
that it does have voted against the bill 
in the past. 

I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman 
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER). 

Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. 

Mr. Speaker, this is my 35th year in 
the Congress of the United States. I 
don’t know that I voted against, prior 
to this year, either a Defense Appropriation 
bill or a Defense Authorization 
bill. 

I will vote against this bill. I regret 
that I will vote against this bill because 
I regret that we have not gotten 
ourselves on a fiscally sound path in a 
bipartisan way that makes this country 
more secure not only on the national 
defense side, but secure on the 
domestic side as well. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to 
this conference report, which I believe 
does a disservice to our men and 
women in uniform and undermines our 
national security. 

I do not believe this is the chairman’s 
fault. I want to make that very 
clear. The chairman has been dealt a 
hand, and he is trying to play the best 
hand he can. I understand that. 

I agree fully, however, with the ranking 
member, with his concerns and opposition 
to this bill not because of 
most of its substance, but because of 
the adverse impact it has on so much 
else. 

This continues the Republican sequester 
sneak-around strategy. What 
do I mean by that? My Republican colleagues 
historically—since I have been 
here—talk about spending money. 
What they don’t like to do is pay for 

things. That is, of course, what we do 
with taxes. 

It is not for free: national security, 
education, health care, law enforcement. 
You have to pay for it. And if 
you want to put a level of doing something, 
you need to pay for that or you 
pass it along to the next generation. 

This bill continues the sequester 
sneak-around strategy of blowing 
through their own defense spending cap 
by misusing emergency overseas contingency 
operations funding for nonemergency 
base defense spending. That 
is why the Pentagon is opposed to this. 
That is why the Joint Chiefs believe 
this is bad policy fiscal policy for the 
military. 

As our military planners and Secretary 
Carter have made clear, such an 
approach to funding undermines the 
Pentagon’s long-term planning process, 
which is based on multi-year budgets 
and predictable funding streams. 

Unfortunately, the fiscal policies of 
the leadership of this House over the 
last 6 years have been anything but 
predictable. 

We avoided a shutdown of government 
yesterday, notwithstanding the 
fact that 151 of my Republican colleagues 
voted not to fund government 
today. Only Democrats ensured the 
fact that we kept the government open. 
Ninety-one Republicans voted with us, 
but that was far less than half of their 
caucus. 

This proposal undermines the 
chances for a bipartisan budget agreement 
to replace the sequester before 
the CR we passed yesterday expires on 
December 11. Mr. Speaker, 151 Republicans 
voted even against keeping government 
open for a short period of 
time, approximately 2 months. 

This approach included in this bill 
also harms fundamental national security 
priorities by characterizing core 
defense items as part of contingency 
operations. That is not true. It is not 
fiscally helpful. 

This includes the Iron Dome missile 
defense program and all other U.S.-
Israel joint missile defense programs 
that help Israel protect civilians from 
Hamas and Hezbollah rockets. 

Additionally, this report continues to 
prevent the administration from closing 
the detention facility at Guantanamo 
Bay, which remains a recruiting 
tool for terrorists and undermines 
America’s role as a beacon of constitutional 
rights and freedoms around the 
world. Meanwhile, we are spending $2.4 
million per detainee every year for 
those we hold in Guantanamo. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. I yield 
the gentleman an additional 1 minute. 

Mr. HOYER. The ranking member of 
the Armed Services Committee opposes 
this bill strongly, as do members of 
that committee. The President has 
made it clear he is going to veto this 
bill not because he is against national 
security. 

Ironically, Republicans have come to 
the number that the President pro


posed. There is a difference. The President 
paid for his number. He didn’t 
pass it along to our children. 

We must recognize this conference 
report for what it is: a vehicle for partisan 
messaging and an instrument for 
breaking with the Murray-Ryan principle 
of parity in defense and non-
defense sequester relief. It is not a bill 
that makes America safer and a 
stronger force for justice around the 
world. Therefore, I will oppose it. 

I thank my friend, the gentleman 
from Washington (Mr. SMITH) once 
again for his work in trying to improve 
this bill in committee, on this floor 
and in conference, and for his untiring 
work in support of the men and women 
of our Nation’s armed services. 

I thank the chairman of the committee 
for the same thing. He was dealt 
a bad hand. I understand the hand he 
has to play. It is not good for our country. 


I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no.’’ 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself 30 seconds. 

Mr. Speaker, I would just make three 
brief points. 

Number one, as this debate goes on, 
it is increasingly clear that the real debate 
is about budget and appropriations, 
not about this bill. 

Secondly, I am one of those who 
voted to continue to fund the government 
because I think it is essential 
that we pay our troops and that there 
be no lapse in that. Unfortunately, we 
have today the White House playing 
politics with national security, and I 
think that is what makes an ultimate 
agreement harder. 

b 1215 
Finally, Mr. Speaker, the President 
was short in funding Israeli missile defense. 
We fully fund Israeli missile defense 
in this bill, and it should be supported. 
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. TURNER), the 
distinguished chairman of the Tactical 
Air and Land Forces Subcommittee. 
Mr. TURNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
support of H.R. 1735, what would be the 
54th consecutive National Defense Authorization 
Act. 
What we have here today is, unfortunately, 
partisan politics at its worst. 
You have people who are coming down 
to the House floor condemning a bill 
that they voted for, and now they are 
going to vote against it because the 
President has decided that he is going 
to veto it. He is not going to veto it because 
of what is in this bill. He is going 
to veto it because there is not enough 
spending on the bureaucracies of the 
IRS and the EPA. We know this because 
not only has the President said 
it, even Defense Secretary Ash Carter 
has said it in front of the Armed Services 
Committee. 
Now, if this were such a bad bill, you 
would think that it would not have 
come out of our committee with full, 
almost unanimous, support by both 
sides of the aisle, bipartisan, unbelievable 
support for this bill in virtually 


H6772 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

its same structure that is coming to 
this floor. Only when President Obama 
stepped forward and said, I am going to 
veto it because you are not funding the 
IRS and the EPA, did it suddenly lose 
its bipartisan support. 

This is not an issue about Republicans 
and Democrats. This is an issue 
about this administration. This administration, 
the author of sequestration, 
President Obama, set forth a plan that 
has been dismantling our military and 
needs to be set aside. Now, what we 
have in this bill is a bill that fully 
funds national defense, even as Minority 
Leader STENY HOYER said, that 
fully funds it at the level that is requested 
by the President. 

Now, you can say there are gimmicks, 
you can say there are tricks, 
but you can also say what is important; 
and as you go to the experts to 
determine whether or not this bill 
works, Chairman Dempsey of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff stood in front of our 
committee, and when asked the question 
of does the structure of this bill 
fully fund national defense, he said, absolutely, 
that he could spend it and 
that it would be the number that is 
necessary. He also said it was the lower 
jagged edge of what is necessary for national 
security. 

Mr. Speaker, if Chairman Dempsey 
says in front of our committee—and he 
certainly is the expert—that this 
works, it works. I urge everyone to 
support this bill. Set aside sequestration, 
set aside partisan politics, and 
support our men and women in uniform. 


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my 
time. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. ROGERS), 
the distinguished chair of the 
Strategic Forces Subcommittee, for 
the purpose of a colloquy. 

Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, 
I want to thank you for your 
leadership in getting us here today. I 
would like to ask the chairman a question 
if I might. 

Does the legislation provide the 
President the exact amount of money 
he requested in his budget request? 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Will the gentleman 
yield? 

Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. I yield to 
the gentleman from Texas. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. The gentleman 
is correct. The total is exactly the 
amount that the President asked for. 

Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Thank 
you. That is what I thought. 

Does the chairman recall who it was 
that testified that the amount requested 
for fiscal year 2016 for the national 
defense is ‘‘at the ragged edge of 
manageable risk?’’ 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Will the gentleman 
yield? 

Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. I yield to 
the gentleman from Texas. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. As the gentleman 
from Ohio just said, it was the 

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs that said 
that this is the lower ragged edge of 
what it takes to defend the country. 

Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. And that 
individual is the President’s senior 
military adviser, isn’t he? 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Yes, sir. 

Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. That is 
what I thought. 

Thank you, Chairman. 

So, Mr. Speaker, we have an easy 
choice here today: we can vote for a 
conference report that sends a bill to 
the President that provides him authorized 
funding at exactly the level he 
requested, or we can send the Nation 
below the ‘‘ragged edge of manageable 
risk’’ in its security. 

It is a bill that provides over a $320 
million increase for our Israeli allies 
on top of the $155 million in the President’s 
request for missile defense cooperation. 


I would ask Members, especially 
those who supported the President’s 
Iran deal, to recall it is exactly this 
funding that the administration said 
was vital to Israel’s security because of 
that deal and its termination of multilateral 
sanctions on ballistic missile 
proliferation. 

This is a bill that provides $184 million 
to fund an American rocket to end 
our reliance on Russian-made rocket 
engines. This is a bill that provides the 
President’s request of $358 million for 
Cooperative Threat Reduction activities. 


What does that mean? That is how we 
fight Ebola. 

Mr. Speaker, my fellow Members, 
there are some tough votes that we 
have to take around here from time to 
time. This is not one of them. Vladimir 
Putin is bombing U.S.-backed anti-
Assad forces in Syria. If you want to 
make Putin happy, vote against this 
bill. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield myself 2 minutes. 

Mr. Speaker, first of all, the reason 
that we are at the ragged edge of what 
defense needs is because of the budget 
caps. That is the issue. That is the substantive 
issue and why this is important. 


Tied into that is a regrettable fact. 
The chairman says repeatedly, look, 
this is the authorizing bill. Don’t talk 
to me about the budget. Don’t talk to 
me about appropriations. The defense 
budget is over half of the discretionary 
budget. So, unfortunately, the defense 
bill is about the budget and about the 
appropriations process. 

As long as we have those budget caps 
locked in place, we will be at the ragged 
edge of what we can do to protect 
our national security. We shouldn’t be 
there. We should lift the budget caps. 
This NDAA locks in those budget caps 
and uses the OCO dodge, which, as I 
have pointed out, the Senate isn’t 
agreeing to, so the $38 billion isn’t 
going to be there. 

Even worse, what Secretary Carter 
has also said is that the OCO funding 
simply perpetuates the 5 years of budg


et cuts and uncertainty, of CRs, of government 
shutdowns, of threatened government 
shutdowns, and of not being 
able to plan. Secretary Carter has been 
very clear. He opposes this bill because 
the OCO funding is not an adequate 
way to fund defense because it is 1-year 
money. It is a budget gimmick. It 
doesn’t give them the ability to plan 
and do what they need to protect our 
country and take care of our troops. 

So opposing this bill because of the 
OCO funding is enormously important 
to our troops and is a substantive part 
of this. We cannot simply dodge the 
budget issues. 

Mr. Speaker, I just want to respond 
briefly to the comment about the committee 
vote. We in committee said we 
didn’t like the OCO funding and that 
we needed that to be fixed. But we are 
coming out of committee. We are going 
to give it a chance to work its way 
through the process. No changes were 
made, so we opposed it on the floor. 

We didn’t just wake up yesterday and 
oppose this. Democrats voted against 
this bill when it came through the 
House in the first place. The critically 
important issue that we absolutely 
made a point of in committee was not 
fixed, so that is why we are opposing 
this bill. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. WITTMAN), 
the distinguished chair of the 
Subcommittee on Readiness. 

Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to ask Congress to vote in favor 
of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for FY16. I am proud that this conference 
report takes significant steps 
towards rebuilding our military and 
readiness. 

We prioritize training for our troops 
and maintenance and modernization of 
our equipment and technology. This 
NDAA is critical to carry out the military 
missions of this Nation effectively 
and successfully in an increasingly 
dangerous world. 

Recently, former Secretary of State 
Dr. Henry Kissinger proclaimed: ‘‘The 
United States has not faced a more diverse 
and complex array of crises since 
the end of the Second World War.’’ This 
statement holds true today as we combat 
ISIS in the Middle East, as Russia 
again tests our commitment to global 
leadership, and as China continues to 
increase its defense spending to record 
levels. 

Mr. Speaker, Congress has a constitutional 
duty of providing for the 
common defense of our Nation. If Congress 
and the President fail to act on 
the NDAA, we forgo our constitutional 
duty, and we weaken the security of 
our Nation and ability to confront crises 
that occur around the globe. 

It is also important to point out that 
this is not the time to play political 
games with our national security or to 
hold hostage funding and authorization 
for the military for political gain. Our 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6773 

Nation and our men and women in the 
military deserve better, and they deserve 
the proper support that Congress 
is under obligation to provide. 

As we have heard through testimony 
from our military leaders before the 
committee, our military is approaching 
the ragged edge of being able to 
execute our Nation’s defense strategy. 
By not passing this NDAA, or by allowing 
sequestration to continue to devastate 
our Nation’s military readiness, 
we place ourselves in a position where 
we will be unable to defend against the 
threats we face today and in the future. 


I urge my colleagues to support this 
bill and vote in favor of the National 
Defense Authorization Act of FY16. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, I agree with a lot of 
what the gentleman just said about 
how critical national security is, yet 
the Republican majority insists on 
maintaining those budget caps that are 
devastating to our national security. 
They will not lift the caps that are 
causing precisely the problems that 
were just described, and 151 of them 
voted yesterday to defund the entire 
military by shutting down the government. 
So if we really believe in all of 
those national security priorities, let’s 
start funding them. Lift the budget 
caps and actually pay for it. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from California (Mrs. 
DAVIS). 

Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speaker, 
I want to associate myself with the 
ranking member because I think that 
we all work very, very hard on this 
committee, and I appreciate the work 
that our chairman has done as well. I 
have to say I am speaking largely as 
someone who has never not supported 
an NDAA. I actually did support it in 
committee, and I support it on the 
floor. But I think we are in a box, and 
sometimes when you get in a box, you 
have got to do something about it. You 
can’t just stay in there and sit. It 
means making some hard decisions. 

Mr. Speaker, I have listened in the 
committee when Secretary Carter was 
there. I have to say I think he was a bit 
badgered in that discussion, but at the 
same time, he is a big boy and he can 
handle that. Basically what he said is 
of course we support all those issues, of 
course we want a better budget for the 
men and women who serve our country 
because it is in the best interests of the 
United States of America, but we also 
have to be concerned about the future, 
not just about tomorrow. We have got 
to be able to do this for the men and 
women and for our country as we move 
forward. 

That is what this doesn’t do. We have 
got to give this a chance. There has got 
to be a better chance. That is why I 
feel that I have been there. I have compromised; 
and there are a lot of members 
on that committee, honestly, who 
are not willing to compromise. We 
have tried to find that balance. 

Mr. Speaker, I am really proud of the 
work that we have done on the Military 
Personnel Subcommittee. I am 
proud because we made some gains. We 
have sort of shuffled some issues a little 
bit to be able to say to our leaders 
that we understand their concerns, we 
understand what readiness means in 
this country, and we have got to deal 
with that. Maybe we can’t deal with all 
these issues that we have tried to make 
sure we funded to the very, very highest 
limit that we could possibly do. 

We know there are some changes perhaps 
that are coming, and so we do it 
in an incremental way, in a slow way, 
and something that we think is in the 
best interests of the men and women 
and the country all at the same time. 
We have got to do that. We have multiple 
global crises going on in this 
country. So we can’t just make a decision 
for today; it has got to be down 
the line. 

What is it that we need to do? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentlewoman has expired. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman an 
additional 30 seconds. 

Mrs. DAVIS of California. What is 
important? What was Secretary Carter 
talking about? Predictability. Not just 
for our folks at the Pentagon to be able 
to make sure the men and women of 
this country are provided with everything 
that they need, but we also need 
to be sure that those who work with 
our country—we have a very strong 
contractual relationship with the pub-
lic-private sector in this country, and 
we need to provide prediction for them 
as well. That is why I stand today. I believe 
it is in the best interests to go 
back and work this out. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentlewoman has again expired. 


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman an 
additional 1 minute. 

Mrs. DAVIS of California. I work in a 
community of large numbers of military 
families. And guess what, the 
military is no different from the rest of 
our country. It is made safer and 
stronger by Homeland Security, by law 
enforcement, by environmental protection, 
and by strong education programs. 
They care about all those 
things, so they want us to stand up for 
their children and for their future. 

Mr. Speaker, we can do this together. 
Let’s take that chance. It is worth it. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. 
HARTZLER), the distinguished chair of 
the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. 


Mrs. HARTZLER. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. 

Mr. Speaker, I agree with the lady 
that we need to make hard choices, but 
we don’t need to do this in this bill. We 
can’t solve the problems that have 
been reiterated in this bill. This is a 
budget issue. 

I serve on the Budget Committee as 
well, and I believe we need to undo sequestration 
for our national defense. 
We need to come up with a comprehensive 
plan to address the cost drivers of 
our country that are causing us to go 
into debt. 

b 1230 
We need to get our priorities back as 
a country and make sure we provide for 
the common defense. We need to do 
that in the budget in a comprehensive 
way. 
But we don’t need to hold our military 
hostage today by not approving 
the expenditure of funds for the vital 
things that they need. That is what my 
colleagues are doing. I appreciate their 
intent. I look forward to working with 
them—many of us do—to solve this 
overall problem, but today our military 
need to know that we are standing 
behind them and that we are going to 
authorize them with the things that 
they need. 
This bill is full of the things that our 
country and our men and women in 
uniform need. As the chairman of the 
Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, 
we are doing an investigation 
dealing with the transfer of detainees 
out of GTMO and what happened 
with Sergeant Bergdahl and the 
Taliban Five. So I was especially proud 
of the part in here that makes sure 
that the detainees are not removed 
from Guantanamo Bay and brought 
into our local communities. In addition, 
we set up an additional protocol 
so that the Secretary of Defense has to 
certify that any detainees that go to a 
foreign country, that that country is 
able to detain them, keep them safe, 
and make sure that they don’t go back 
into the fight and continue their terrorist 
activities. 
This bill takes care of our troops. It 
addresses the threats facing us. We 
have so many. Whether it is what is 
going on in Ukraine and with Russia, 
whether it is dealing with ISIL, or 
whether it is a cyber threat that we 
have, every day there are threats coming 
around us, and we address them in 
this bill. That is why we need to pass 
it. It also provides for the platforms 
that we need. 
I urge my colleagues to do the right 
thing, to stand with our troops, to provide 
them with what they need, and to 
support this bill. 
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my 
time. 
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Nevada (Mr. HECK), 
the distinguished chair of the Subcommittee 
on Military Personnel. 
Mr. HECK of Nevada. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the chairman for yielding. 
As chairman of the House Armed 
Services Subcommittee on Military 
Personnel, I appreciate Chairman 
THORNBERRY’s efforts to bring this conference 
report to the floor. His dedication 
to our Armed Forces, their families, 
and our veterans is commendable. 


H6774 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

Supporting the men and women who 
volunteer to pick up a weapon, stand a 
post, and guard the freedoms and liberties 
that make our Nation great is a 
primary function of the Federal Government. 
Article I, section 8 of the 
Constitution, ‘‘to raise and support Armies,’’ 
‘‘to provide and maintain a 
Navy,’’ today with adoption of this 
conference report, we achieve that 
goal. 

Included in the report are personnel 
provisions that will allow us to recruit 
and retain the best and brightest, 
maintain an agile military force, and 
ensure our brave men and women in 
uniform are given the benefits they 
have earned and deserve. 

The President has threatened to veto 
this conference report, even though the 
report authorizes the amount he requested 
in his own budget, because he 
is not happy with the manner in which 
it is provided. He is using our military 
men and women as political pawns to 
get increases in nondefense spending. I 
understand that he has urged some of 
my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ today, and 
I want to make sure my colleagues 
know some of the things they would be 
voting against: 

A new retirement plan that provides 
options and portable retirement benefits 
for individuals who serve less than 
20 years, roughly 83 percent of the 
force; 

A pay raise for our military men and 
women, along with many special pays 
and bonuses, that are critical to maintaining 
the all-volunteer force; 

A joint uniform drug formulary between 
the Department of Defense and 
the Department of Veterans Affairs so 
that transitioning servicemembers get 
to stay on the drugs that are working 
for them as they leave active service; 
and 

Enhanced protections for sexual assault 
victims to include expanding access 
to Special Victims’ Counsel, protecting 
victims from retaliation, and 
improving the military rules of evidence. 


If the President follows through with 
his veto threat, servicemembers and 
their families will be deprived of these 
significant improvements to their compensation 
and quality of life. 

I urge my colleagues to stand with 
our military men and women and their 
families and support this report. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, may I inquire as to how much 
time is remaining on each side. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Washington has 10 minutes 
remaining. The gentleman from 
Texas has 101/2 minutes remaining. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield myself 3 minutes. 

There was a comment earlier about 
the military being held hostage by 
these other needs, and I think it is 
really important to understand that, 
over the course of the last 5 years, 
what the military has really been held 
hostage to is the budget caps, one government 
shutdown, multiple CRs, and 

multiple threatened government shutdowns. 
That is what is holding the 
military hostage. 

If you talk to them about how they 
have tried to figure out what they can 
spend money on and what they can’t 
spend money on throughout that madness—
because we can’t pass along a 
long-term budget, because we can’t lift 
the budget caps, because we can’t pass 
appropriations—that is what is holding 
them hostage. 

A 1- or 2-month delay in passing the 
NDAA—which, by the way, we have 
passed in December for the last 3 or 4 
years—isn’t going to hold them hostage 
at all. What is holding them hostage 
is that ridiculous budget process 
that I just mentioned. 

And why do we have that ridiculous 
budget process? Because the Republican 
majority insists on maintaining 
those budget caps. It is those budget 
caps that are holding our military hostage. 
Unless we lift them, we will not 
be able to adequately fund defense. 

I heard a number of times over here 
that the only reason we oppose this is 
because we want more spending on 
other programs. That is not even close 
to true, and it is obvious that no one 
has been listening to the arguments 
that I have been making. 

The reason we propose this is because 
it perpetuates our military being held 
hostage to budget caps, budget gimmicks, 
CRs, and threatened government 
shutdowns. This bill has OCO 
funding in it. It does not have base 
budget funding. It does not provide the 
same amount of money for the President 
that the President’s budget provides 
because it is not the same money, 
and the type of money does matter. If 
you have actual budget authority, if 
you have actual appropriations, you 
can spend them over multiple years because 
you know that they are going to 
be there. 

It is absurd the way we have budgeted 
for the last 5 years, and what we 
are doing in opposing this bill is standing 
up to that absurdity for many reasons, 
I will grant you. Number one is to 
protect our national security and the 
men and women who serve in the 
Armed Forces who have had to live 
with that government shutdown, those 
CRs, those threatened government 
shutdowns, and, most importantly, 
those budget caps that the majority refuses 
to lift. Unless we lift those, the 
military is going to be in this situation 
in perpetuity, and that is unacceptable 
for our national security. 

It is all about national security. It is 
all about defense for why we are opposing 
this bill. We can’t go on like this 
and have an adequate national security. 
We have to lift the budget caps. 

I will say one other thing. We have to 
raise taxes somewhere. In the last 14 
years, we have cut taxes by somewhere 
in the neighborhood of $7 trillion. Now, 
granted, there are unquestionably 
places in the budget we can cut, and we 
cut. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. I yield 
myself an additional 2 minutes. 

We have cut Medicare. I know we 
have cut Medicare because the Republican 
Party ran all kinds of ads bashing 
us for cutting Medicare back in 2010. 
We found about $700 billion in savings 
that has extended the life of the program 
and saved money, so we have 
saved money. 

But the flat refusal to raise any revenue 
is what has got our military with 
a hand around its throat, because, believe 
it or not, you have to actually 
raise the money if you are going to 
spend it. 

So as you stand up here complaining 
about all the things that we are not 
funding in national security and then 
insist on maintaining the budget caps 
and insist on not raising a penny in 
taxes, that is the grossest hypocrisy I 
can imagine. If you are unhappy with 
how much money is being spent on the 
military, then have the guts to raise 
the caps and raise the taxes to actually 
pay for it, or just stop talking about it 
and accept it at that level. 

We are opposing this bill because the 
budget process that we have been under 
is what is throttling our military. 
Until we break that grip, until we get 
an actual appropriations process, until 
we get the budget caps lifted, and 
until, I believe, we actually raise some 
revenues to pay for it, we are not going 
to be doing adequate service to the 
men and women of our military. 

I also want to say that I oppose this 
bill because it also continues to keep 
Guantanamo Bay open at the cost of 
nearly $3 million per inmate. In addition 
to being an international problem, 
it is unbelievably expensive and not 
necessary. We should shut Guantanamo. 
This bill locks in place for another 
year that it will stay open and 
does not give the President any option 
or any flexibility in that regard. 

So, again, don’t tell me or anyone 
over here that we are voting ‘‘no’’ for 
reasons that have nothing to do with 
national security. How can you possibly 
look at the last 5 years of budgeting 
and the impact that it has had on 
the Department of Defense and say 
that getting rid of the budget caps isn’t 
absolutely critical to national security? 
I believe that it is, and that is 
why we oppose this bill. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself 1 minute. 

Mr. Speaker, I just want to make a 
couple of points. Number one is I share 
a lot of the concerns about the effect of 
sequestration on the military, but as 
this conversation continues, it is clearer 
and clearer that the real problem 
here is budgets, and now we hear taxes. 

This bill cannot solve either of those 
problems. We cannot rewrite the Tax 
Code or raise taxes. We can’t repeal 
ObamaCare. There are lots of things we 
can’t do. But we can do some things, 
and we should do that. 

Secondly, a dollar of OCO is a dollar 
spent just as much as a dollar of base 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6775 

is spent, and that is why I say I don’t 
really think if you are on the ground in 
Afghanistan you care about what the 
label put on the money is. And, by the 
way, the increase in the OCO account 
is operations and maintenance money, 
which is only good for 1 year anyway. 

Next point. In fiscal year 2013, Israel 
missile defense was funded in OCO, and 
yet we had Members on that side of the 
aisle, including some who are complaining 
about that, vote for it. That is 
what we do sometimes. 

Finally, this President signed into 
law the exact provisions on restricting 
GTMO transfers. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. I yield myself an 
additional 30 seconds. 

Mr. Speaker, in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 
2014, this President signed into law the 
exact restrictions on Guantanamo 
transfers that we have in this bill. 
Now, is it all of a sudden such a big 
deal that he has decided that he is 
going to veto the bill over it? I think 
that is a hard case to make. 

Mr. Speaker, at this point, I am 
pleased to yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT), the 
distinguished chair of the House Small 
Business Committee. 

Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman for yielding. 

Mr. Speaker, the passage of an annual 
National Defense Authorization 
Act to lay out our Nation’s defense and 
national security priorities is one of 
our most important duties as Members 
of Congress. 

This year is no different, especially 
given the very serious conflicts happening 
around the globe—in Eastern 
Europe, in the Middle East, in the 
South China Sea—which have serious 
implications for our own security and 
for our allies. 

This year’s NDAA makes a number of 
positive changes to DOD small business 
contracting policies to help ensure that 
small businesses throughout the country 
can continue to perform the critical 
support functions that help make 
America’s military still the best in the 
world. 

Mr. Speaker, having a small business 
industrial base means taxpayers benefit 
from increased competition, innovation, 
and job creation. Since 2013, we 
have lost over 25 percent of the small 
firms registered to do business with the 
government—25 percent. That is over 
100,000 small businesses. The reforms in 
this year’s NDAA, the bill that we are 
considering now, takes steps to reverse 
that trend. 

The White House has threatened to 
veto this bill. That is a shame because 
this bipartisan, bicameral bill defends 
small businesses and ensures that the 
spirit of entrepreneurship is alive and 
well in our industrial base. This isn’t 
about political gamesmanship—at least 
it shouldn’t be. This is about two of the 
most bipartisan issues in the political 
arena: the men and women in uniform 
and the small businesses that employ 
half of our American workforce. 

I sincerely hope that the President 
reconsiders and enacts this bipartisan, 
bicameral bill. 

I want to thank a number of members 
of my committee who have contributed 
to this year’s bill, including 
Mr. HARDY of Nevada, Mr. KNIGHT of 
California, Mr. BOST of Illinois, Mr. 
CURBELO of Florida, Mrs. RADEWAGEN 
of American Samoa, and Mr. HANNA of 
New York. I would also like to thank a 
number of other Members and thank 
Mr. THORNBERRY. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my 
time. 

b 1245 
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 2 minutes to the distinguished 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. WENSTRUP). 
Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Speaker, our 
military must always be available and 
able to ready, aim, fire at a moment’s 
notice. The threats we face around the 
world today demand it; and as soldier 
and a veteran, I can tell you that 
‘‘ready’’ in the military needs to be 
spoken as a command, not proposed as 
a question. 
There is one crucial element: our 
military has to be ready to engage the 
threats. This bill ensures our military 
readiness, and it ensures that there is a 
plan for 2016. 
From ISIS to Russia to North Korea, 
the threats we face are too serious to 
wait any longer. But in the same week 
that the President was surprised by the 
Russians bombing U.S.-backed forces 
in Syria, he is threatening to veto this 
National Defense bill. 
Veto our national security, really? 
I encourage the President to use his 
phone, and to paraphrase his own 
words, to call the 1980s and ask for 
their foreign policy back because we 
need it. That policy demands that our 
military must be backed by the full 
confidence of this government now. 
This can’t wait. 
Pass this pay raise for our troops. 
Pass this to give our troops new retirement 
benefits. Pass this to keep our 
critical weapons systems at an operational 
level. 
Mr. Speaker, we have been working 
on this legislation since the beginning 
of this year. It is a good bill that adheres 
to the law, and it is the certainty 
our troops need. 
Pass this bill. Our troops need it. 
They don’t let you down. Don’t let 
them down. 
Mr. SMITH of Washington. I reserve 
the balance of my time. 
Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from New York (Ms. STEFANIK), the distinguished 
vice chair of the Subcommittee 
on Readiness. 
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in support of the conference report 
to H.R. 1735, the fiscal year 2016 
NDAA. I thank Chairman THORNBERRY 
for his leadership, guidance, and tireless 
efforts on this imperative piece of 
legislation. 

Just this past week, the major headline 
coming out of Afghanistan was the 
Taliban’s seizure of the prominent 
town of Kunduz. This serves as yet another 
reminder to us all that this region 
of the world remains unstable and 
brings about challenges to our national 
security. The fiscal year 2016 NDAA 
provides our Nation’s Armed Forces 
with the resources they need to defend 
our national security. 

Since September 11, the Army’s 10th 
Mountain Division out of Fort Drum, 
which I am honored to represent, has 
been the most actively forward deployed 
division to Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Yet sadly, just this past month, 
Specialist Kyle Gilbert, a soldier from 
the 10th Mountain Division, died in Afghanistan 
while serving our Nation. 

In New York’s North Country, our 
community and our military families 
understand what fighting for our Nation’s 
liberties and freedoms truly 
means. 

So when I express my support for the 
NDAA, the tools it provides and how it 
enables our Armed Forces to defend 
our Nation from organizations who create 
volatility and terrorism around the 
world, I am speaking for my constituents, 
those servicemen and -women 
who are overseas right now in highly 
kinetic combat zones fighting to protect 
you and me, our families, and our 
Nation. 

Colleagues, the fiscal year 2016 NDAA 
allows for our Armed Forces to plan 
and operate according to what we as a 
nation have asked of them. We must 
support the NDAA to maintain our 
readiness and provide for our military. 

As leaders here today, we know we 
cannot continue to task our troops 
with doing more with less as defense 
sequestration cuts remain. The conference 
report to FY 2016 NDAA provides 
relief from these harmful defense 
sequestration cuts, but more must be 
done. 

Let me remind my colleagues across 
the aisle sequestration was proposed by 
this administration, signed into law by 
this President, and passed by a previous 
Congress. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentlewoman has expired. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. I yield an additional 
30 seconds to the gentlewoman 
from New York. 

Ms. STEFANIK. When the NDAA 
comes before the President’s desk, I 
hope he realizes a veto threat could 
threaten the safety of our Nation’s 
servicemembers and our country’s defense. 


I urge my colleagues to join me in 
supporting and voting for the NDAA. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of 
my time. 

I will go ahead and start with that 
last comment because it is a popular 
trope that is trotted out all the time 
about how sequestration was the President’s 
idea and, therefore, it is not our 
fault, which is a fascinating argument 
because I was actually here when that 


H6776 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

happened, and I don’t think it is clear 
exactly whose idea sequestration was. 

What is clear is that the reason that 
we did the Budget Control Act and sequestration 
was because the Republican 
majority in the House was refusing 
to raise the debt ceiling, refusing 
to allow us to borrow money at a time 
when we had to borrow it. How do we 
think that would have impacted national 
security and our troops? 

I voted against the Budget Control 
Act, but I have often said I don’t hold 
anything against those who voted for it 
because they basically had a gun to 
their head. The Budget Control Act 
was an awful piece of legislation, but 
not raising the debt ceiling, not paying 
our debts, you know, stopping the ability 
of the United States of America to 
borrow money, was clearly worse. 

So this partisan argument that, oh, 
you know, sequestration was the President’s 
idea so therefore it is not our 
fault is about as absurd an argument as 
I have ever heard. Number one, because 
like I said, the only reason that that 
discussion was on the table was because 
it was blackmail for raising the 
debt ceiling, which had to be raised. 

Number two, it has been a good 5 
years since then. The Republicans now 
control both the House and the Senate, 
and they had an opportunity to pass a 
budget resolution this year. They 
passed a budget resolution that held 
those caps and sequestration firmly in 
place, and that is not good for our 
troops and it is not good for our national 
security. 

So let’s move on to that appropriations 
process; get those budget caps 
lifted for the sake of a whole lot of different 
issues. That brings me back to 
the National Defense Authorization 
Act and the fact that, by locking in the 
OCO, by accepting those budget caps, 
by using OCO funds, we are once again 
putting the Pentagon in a situation 
where they don’t know how much 
money they are going to have and they 
have no predictability whatsoever. 

It is the OCO in this bill that is the 
reason that I oppose it and the reason 
that most Democrats oppose it because 
that OCO is harmful to national security. 
We need a real budget. We need 
real budget authority and real appropriations. 
Voting for a bill that puts in 
place the OCO instead of that simply 
perpetuates the nightmare of the last 5 
years of uncertainty. Like I said, we 
are going to have a motion to recommit 
here in a moment that easily fixes 
this problem. 

I agree with 95 percent of the rest of 
the bill. I don’t agree with all of it. The 
chairman said, you know, we negotiated 
some things; they were up, they 
were down. By and large, it is a good 
bill. But the 5 percent that is bad is so 
bad that it does justify a ‘‘no’’ vote because 
it perpetuates this bad budget 
situation and is a very easy fix. 

Take the OCO out of it and put it in 
the base budget. It is very simple. That 
is what we are going to propose in the 
motion to recommit. You will see 

Democrats vote for that because we 
support funding this. What we don’t 
support is maintaining the budget caps 
through an obvious budget gimmick. 

I had a fascinating conversation with 
a member of the Rules Committee yesterday 
on the other side of the aisle 
who said he was very, very proud of the 
Budget Control Act, said it was the 
best vote he had taken in Congress. Interesting 
that it was supposedly all the 
President’s fault. But he really supported 
the Budget Control Act. He felt 
those caps were absolutely necessary. 
And I said: Well, then you must oppose 
the NDAA because it busts those caps 
by $38 billion. He said a lot of things at 
that point, but he never answered my 
question. 

So this dodge of saying that we are 
going to create sort of money that 
really isn’t money in order to, for one 
brief period of time, fund isolated programs 
within the Pentagon does not 
help national security. The only thing 
that is going to help national security 
is by getting rid of the OCO dodge and 
budgeting honestly. So that is why we 
oppose this bill. 

Yes, I believe that budget caps should 
be raised for the other bills as well, in 
part, because I think a lot of those Departments 
are important to national 
security, as I mentioned: the Department 
of Homeland Security, the Department 
of Justice, the Department of 
the Treasury. 

More than anything, we oppose this 
bill because of how bad it is for the 
Pentagon. That is the reason the Secretary 
of Defense opposed it. That is 
the reason all of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff oppose it. They want an actual 
budget. They want actual, dependable 
money, the way things used to be before 
2010 when we would actually pass 
appropriations bills and they could 
plan more than a month or two at a 
time. If we pass this bill, we simply 
perpetuate that process. 

We will pass an NDAA. We will resolve 
one way or the other our appropriations 
difference, and we will get it 
done, but passing this bill now simply 
perpetuates a bad situation that is bad 
for our troops and bad for national security. 
For that reason, I oppose it. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself the balance of my time. 

Mr. Speaker, I want to start with one 
of the points I made at the beginning, 
and that is to thank the staff, especially 
on both sides of the aisle, who 
spent a lot of hours, disrupted a lot of 
plans, put in incredible effort back and 
forth to come up with this conference 
report. Members on both sides of the 
aisle and both sides of the Capitol contributed 
to the product that we are 
about to vote on. 

Mr. Speaker, for 53 straight years 
Congresses of both parties have passed 
and Presidents of both parties have 
signed into law Defense Authorization 
bills. 

There were a handful of times—and it 
is exactly four—when a President ve


toed a Defense Authorization bill, and 
every single time it was because of 
something that was in the bill. So it 
came back to Congress, there were adjustments 
made, it went back to the 
White House, and he signed it into law. 

Never before has a Defense Authorization 
bill been held hostage, not because 
of something that is in it, but 
trying to force Congress to take action 
on some other matter. Now, we have 
talked a lot today about appropriations, 
about budget, even about taxes. 
None of those things can happen with 
the Defense Authorization bill. 

The reason it has never happened before 
is because it would be irresponsible 
to hold defense hostage to another 
domestic agenda, a political 
agenda, even a broader budget agenda. 
And it unnecessarily threatens the national 
security of the United States. 
This is a first, and this first is happening 
at a particularly dangerous 
time. 

There is nothing in this bill that 
could solve the problem that we have 
heard so much about. It is an authorization 
bill. It is not appropriations. It 
is not budget. It is not a tax bill. It is 
a defense policy bill. 

We have heard from time to time the 
military opposes it. No. They say, ‘‘I 
would rather do it differently,’’ and I 
would, too. But I have specifically 
asked general after general, Would you 
rather have the money or not, and they 
always say they would rather have the 
money. Even though it is not an ideal 
way to do budgets, it is better to have 
the money than not. 

By the way, there is a provision in 
here so that if we can, as I hope we do, 
reach a budget agreement in a different 
appropriations matter, the authorizations 
are adjusted accordingly. 

The bottom line is, if Members vote 
against this bill, they are voting 
against everything in it. You may say 
you are for it, but you are voting 
against it. 

So what I think our troops deserve 
and what the world needs to hear, especially 
at this point in time, is that 
Washington can work. We may not 
solve all the problems today, but we 
can do something that is good and that 
we are willing to stand up and take action 
to help defend ourselves. That is 
what this bill is about. 

I hope Members will support it. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, today I 
will vote against H.R. 1735, the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
because it is a budget gimmick, shamelessly 
hiding behind the guise of national security. 
Make no mistake—America would be less 
safe were this bill to move forward in its 
present form. 

The President has already said—as he has 
been saying for months—that he will veto this 
bill if it misuses Overseas Contingency Operation 
funds to evade the congressionally mandated 
budget caps. Sadly, but not surprisingly, 
Congressional Republicans did exactly that 
and worse. They had an opportunity to avoid 
leaving our troops in the lurch by pursuing a 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6777 

balanced and fair budget deal that would unwind 
the reckless sequester for the national 
security activities at non-defense agencies like 
State, Homeland Security, and the VA. 

In addition, this Authorization contains a 
budget-busting time bomb, the National Sea-
Based Deterrence Fund, which is such a 
naked attempt to rob sister accounts to pay for 
pet projects that, for the third year in a row, 
Congressional appropriators have refused to 
fund. 

The Sea-Based Deterrence Fund was created 
in the FY15 Defense Authorization because 
the Navy could not afford to simultaneously 
build back up to a 300-plus surface 
fleet and procure 12 Ohio-class replacement 
nuclear submarines. The Sea-Based Deterrence 
Fund didn’t solve their problem of how 
SSBN(X) would be paid for. It simply shifted 
that burden onto the larger Pentagon budget. 
According to a recent Congressional Research 
Service report, the new ballistic missile submarine 
program is expected to cost $139 billion. 
Sadly, the account grew worse in conference 
by expanding its use to also include 
attack submarines and aircraft carriers. This 
account is emblematic of a larger problem, 
which is that this Defense Authorization 
marches our country towards a complete rebuild 
of our nuclear arsenal and triad, something 
that a Congressionally-appointed National 
Defense Panel estimated will cost up to 
$1 trillion. 

While I cannot support this bill, I want to acknowledge 
the leadership taken by the House 
and Senate Armed Services Committee Chairs 
and Ranking Members for tackling some tough 
issues in this Authorization that previous efforts 
have ignored. This bill includes bipartisan 
acquisition reform aimed at containing defense 
spending, difficult but necessary military retirement 
and benefit changes, and makes strides 
towards rightsizing the Pentagon workforce. 

Critically, it includes provisions that I championed 
to reform and extend the Afghan Special 
Immigrant Visa (SW) program for those 
brave Afghan men and women who risked 
their lives to aid our troops, but are now in 
danger as a result of their courageous service. 
We cannot allow more of our Afghan allies, 
and their families, to fall victim to the merciless 
Taliban. Should this Defense Authorization 
succumb to a protracted political fight, 
these provisions dealing with the Afghan SIV 
program should be broken off and moved 
through Congress as standalone legislation. I 
am prepared to introduce and push such a bill, 
as I’ve done in the past. 

Though some hard decisions were made in 
this Defense Authorization, that leadership is 
overshadowed by continued budget gimmickry 
on Overseas Contingency Funds, the Sea 
Based Deterrence Fund, and harmful policy 
riders such as the continued effort to prevent 
the administration from rightfully closing Guantanamo 
Bay. 

Both the House and Senate Ranking Members 
of the Armed Services Committees could 
not support this bill. Nor can I. The president 
will veto it. That’s because our men and 
women in uniform should not be taken hostage 
in a budgetary circus. Just yesterday, 
151 Republicans voted to shutdown the government, 
including our military. America cannot 
be great if it’s subject to one manufactured 
crisis after another. We can get this right. All 
it would take is a little leadership and some 
common sense. Sadly, both are in short supply 
in this process. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time 
for debate has expired. 

Pursuant to House Resolution 449, 
the previous question is ordered. 

MOTION TO RECOMMIT 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, I have a motion to recommit 
at the desk. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the 
gentleman opposed to the bill? 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. I am. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will report the motion to recommit. 


The Clerk read as follows: 

Mr. Smith of Washington moves to recommit 
the conference report on the bill H.R. 
1735 to the committee of conference with instructions 
to the managers on the part of the 
House to— 

(1) agree to section 1501 of the Senate 
amendment in lieu of section 1501, as passed 
by the House; 
(2) agree to section 1505 of the Senate 
amendment in lieu of section 1504, as passed 
by the House; 
(3) disagree to section 4303 in the conference 
substitute recommended by the committee 
of conference; and 
(4) insist that the conference substitute 
recommended by the committee of conference 
be modified— 
(A) by transferring the funding table in 
section 4303 to appear after the last line of 
section 4301 so as to be included in the funding 
table in section 4301; 
(B) in section 1301(b), by striking ‘‘section 
1504’’ and inserting ‘‘section 301’’; 
(C) in section 1301(b), by striking ‘‘section 
4303’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4301’’; and 
(D) in section 1522(a), by striking paragraph 
(4). 
Mr. SMITH of Washington (during 
the reading). I ask unanimous consent 
to dispense with the reading. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Washington? 

There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The motion 
is not debatable. 

Without objection, the previous question 
is ordered on the motion to recommit. 


There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion to recommit. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the noes appeared to have it. 

Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas 
and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 and clause 9 of rule XX, 
this 15-minute vote on the motion to 
recommit will be followed by 5-minute 
votes on adoption of the conference report, 
if ordered; and passage of H.R. 
3457. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 186, nays 
241, not voting 7, as follows: 

[Roll No. 531] 
YEAS—186 
Adams 
Aguilar 
Ashford 
Bass 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Bera 
Beyer 
Bishop (GA) 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 

Boyle, Brendan 

F. 
Brady (PA) 
Brown (FL) 
Brownley (CA) 
Bustos 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Ca´rdenas 
Carney 
Carson (IN) 
Cartwright 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Chu, Judy 
Cicilline 
Clark (MA) 
Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Courtney 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
Delaney 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
DeSaulnier 
Deutch 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Doyle, Michael 

F. 
Duckworth 
Duncan (TN) 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Farr 
Fattah 
Foster 
Frankel (FL) 
Fudge 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Garamendi 
Graham 
Grayson 

Abraham 
Aderholt 
Allen 
Amash 
Amodei 
Babin 
Barletta 
Barr 
Barton 
Benishek 
Bilirakis 
Bishop (MI) 
Bishop (UT) 
Black 
Blackburn 
Blum 
Bost 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Brat 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) 
Brooks (IN) 
Buchanan 
Buck 
Bucshon 
Burgess 
Byrne 
Calvert 
Carter (GA) 
Carter (TX) 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Clawson (FL) 
Coffman 
Cole 

Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Hahn 
Hastings 
Heck (WA) 
Higgins 
Himes 
Hinojosa 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Huffman 
Israel 
Jackson Lee 
Jeffries 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Jones 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilmer 
Kind 
Kirkpatrick 
Kuster 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lawrence 
Lee 
Levin 
Lewis 
Lieu, Ted 
Lipinski 
Loebsack 
Lofgren 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 
Lujan Grisham 

(NM) 
Luja´n, Ben Ray 

(NM) 
Lynch 
Maloney, 

Carolyn 
Maloney, Sean 
Matsui 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Meng 
Moore 
Moulton 
Murphy (FL) 
Nadler 
Napolitano 
Nolan 
Norcross 

NAYS—241 

Collins (GA) 
Collins (NY) 
Comstock 
Conaway 
Cook 
Costello (PA) 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Curbelo (FL) 
Davis, Rodney 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Dold 
Donovan 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Ellmers (NC) 
Emmer (MN) 
Farenthold 
Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Flores 
Forbes 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Garrett 
Gibbs 
Gibson 

O’Rourke 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Payne 
Pelosi 
Peters 
Peterson 
Pingree 
Pocan 
Polis 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rangel 
Rice (NY) 
Richmond 
Roybal-Allard 
Ruiz 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Sa´nchez, Linda 

T. 
Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schrader 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, David 
Serrano 
Sewell (AL) 
Sherman 
Sinema 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Swalwell (CA) 
Takai 
Takano 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Titus 
Tonko 
Torres 
Tsongas 
Van Hollen 
Vargas 
Veasey 
Vela 
Vela´zquez 
Visclosky 
Walz 
Wasserman 

Schultz 
Waters, Maxine 
Watson Coleman 
Welch 
Wilson (FL) 
Yarmuth 

Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (LA) 
Graves (MO) 
Griffith 
Grothman 
Guinta 
Guthrie 
Hanna 
Hardy 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Heck (NV) 
Hensarling 
Herrera Beutler 
Hice, Jody B. 
Hill 
Holding 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurd (TX) 
Hurt (VA) 
Issa 
Jenkins (KS) 
Jenkins (WV) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jolly 
Jordan 


H6778 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

Joyce Neugebauer Sessions Buchanan Hice, Jody B. Pitts Edwards Levin Rush 
Katko Newhouse Shimkus Buck Hill Poe (TX) Ellison Lewis Ryan (OH) 
Kelly (MS) Noem Shuster Bucshon Holding Poliquin Engel Lieu, Ted Sa´nchez, Linda 
Kelly (PA) Nugent Simpson Burgess Huizenga (MI) Pompeo Eshoo Loebsack T. 
King (IA) Nunes Smith (MO) Bustos Hultgren Posey Farr Lofgren Sanford 
King (NY) Olson Smith (NE) Byrne Hunter Price, Tom Fattah Lowenthal Sarbanes 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Knight 
Palazzo 
Palmer 
Paulsen 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Stefanik 
Calvert 
Carter (GA) 
Carter (TX) 
Hurd (TX) 
Hurt (VA) 
Issa 
Ratcliffe 
Reed 
Renacci 
Frankel (FL) 
Fudge 
Gallego 
Lowey 
Luja´ n, Ben Ray 
(NM) 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schrader 
Labrador Pearce Stewart Cartwright Jenkins (KS) Ribble Grayson Lynch Scott (VA) 
LaHood Perry Stivers Chabot Jenkins (WV) Rice (NY) Green, Al Maloney, Scott, David 
LaMalfa Pittenger Stutzman 
Lamborn Pitts Thompson (PA)
Lance Poe (TX) ThornberryLatta Poliquin TiberiLoBiondo Pompeo TiptonLong Posey TrottLoudermilk Price, Tom 
TurnerLove Ratcliffe 
UptonLucas Reed 
ValadaoLuetkemeyer Renacci 
WagnerLummis Ribble 
WalbergMacArthur Rice (SC) 
WaldenMarchant Rigell 
WalkerMarino Roby 
WalorskiMassie Roe (TN) 
McCarthy Rogers (AL) Walters, Mimi 
McCaul Rogers (KY) Weber (TX) 
McClintock Rohrabacher Webster (FL) 
McHenry Rokita Wenstrup 
McKinley Rooney (FL) Westerman 
McMorris Ros-Lehtinen Westmoreland 
Rodgers Roskam Whitfield 
McSally Ross Williams 
Meadows Rothfus Wilson (SC) 
Meehan Rouzer Wittman 
Messer Royce Womack 
Mica Russell Woodall 
Miller (FL) Ryan (WI) Yoder 
Miller (MI) Salmon Yoho 
Moolenaar Sanford Young (AK) 
Mooney (WV) Scalise Young (IA) 
Mullin Schweikert Young (IN) 
Mulvaney Scott, Austin Zeldin 
Murphy (PA) Sensenbrenner Zinke 
NOT VOTING—7 
Culberson Kelly (IL) Reichert 
Gutie´ rrez Neal 
Hudson Perlmutter 
b 1326 
Mr. JOLLY changed his vote from 
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’ 
Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California, 
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs. CAROLYN 
B. MALONEY of New York, 
Messrs. ENGEL, SEAN PATRICK 
MALONEY of New York, and RUSH 
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to 
‘‘yea.’’ 
So the motion to recommit was rejected. 
Chaffetz 
Clawson (FL) 
Clay 
Coffman 
Cole 
Collins (GA) 
Collins (NY) 
Comstock 
Conaway 
Cook 
Costa 
Costello (PA) 
Courtney 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Cuellar 
Curbelo (FL) 
Davis, Rodney 
Delaney 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Dold 
Donovan 
Duckworth 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Ellmers (NC) 
Emmer (MN) 
Esty 
Farenthold 
Fincher 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Flores 
Forbes 
Fortenberry 
Foster 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Gabbard 
Garamendi 
Garrett 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Graham 
Granger 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jolly 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Katko 
Kelly (MS) 
Kelly (PA) 
Kilmer 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kirkpatrick 
Kline 
Knight 
Kuster 
LaHood 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Langevin 
Latta 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Loudermilk 
Love 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lujan Grisham 
(NM) 
Lummis 
MacArthur 
Maloney, Sean 
Marchant 
Marino 
McCarthy 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McHenry 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McSally 
Meadows 
Meehan 
Messer 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Moolenaar 
Mooney (WV) 
Mullin 
Murphy (FL) 
Murphy (PA) 
Neugebauer 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rokita 
Rooney (FL) 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus 
Rouzer 
Royce 
Ruiz 
Ruppersberger 
Russell 
Ryan (WI) 
Salmon 
Scalise 
Schweikert 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Sinema 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Stefanik 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Takai 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Trott 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walker 
Walorski 
Walters, Mimi 
Walz 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Green, Gene Carolyn Serrano 
Griffith Massie Sewell (AL) 
Grijalva Matsui Sherman 
Hahn McCollum Sires 
Hastings McDermott Slaughter 
Higgins McGovern Smith (WA) 
Himes McNerney Speier 
Hinojosa Meeks Swalwell (CA) 
Honda Meng Takano 
Hoyer Moore Thompson (CA) 
Huelskamp Moulton Thompson (MS) 
Huffman Mulvaney Titus 
Israel Nadler Tonko 
Jackson Lee Napolitano Torres 
Jeffries Nolan Tsongas 
Johnson (GA) Pallone Van Hollen 
Johnson, E. B. Pascrell Vargas 
Jones Payne Veasey 
Kaptur Pelosi Vela 
Keating Pingree Vela´ zquez 
Kennedy Pocan Visclosky 
Kildee Polis Wasserman 
Kind Price (NC) Schultz 
Labrador Quigley Waters, Maxine 
Larsen (WA) Rangel Watson Coleman 
Larson (CT) Richmond Welch 
Lawrence Rohrabacher Wilson (FL) 
Lee Roybal-Allard Yarmuth 
NOT VOTING—8 
Culberson Kelly (IL) Reichert 
Gutie´ rrez Neal Sanchez, Loretta 
Hudson Perlmutter 
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during 
the vote). There are 2 minutes remaining. 
b 1333 
So the conference report was agreed 
to. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 
Stated for: 
Mr. VEASEY. Mr. Speaker, while I voted 
‘‘no’’ on rollcall vote 532, I intended to vote 
‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the conference report. 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (LA) 
Graves (MO) 
Grothman 
Guinta 
Newhouse 
Noem 
Norcross 
Nugent 
Nunes 
Westerman 
Westmoreland 
Whitfield 
Williams 
Wilson (SC) 
f 
JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF IRANIAN 
TERRORISM ACT 
The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 
Guthrie 
Hanna 
Hardy 
Harper 
O’Rourke 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Palmer 
Wittman 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The unfinished 
business is the vote on passage 
of the bill (H.R. 3457) to prohibit the 
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. 
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas 
and nays. 
The yeas and nays were ordered. 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Heck (NV) 
Heck (WA) 
Hensarling 
Paulsen 
Pearce 
Perry 
Peters 
Peterson 
Yoho 
Young (AK) 
Young (IA) 
Young (IN) 
Zeldin 
lifting of sanctions on Iran until the 
Government of Iran pays the judgments 
against it for acts of terrorism, 
and for other purposes, on which the 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This Herrera Beutler Pittenger Zinke yeas and nays were ordered. 
will be a 5-minute vote. 
The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 270, nays 
156, not voting 8, as follows: 
Adams 
Amash 
Bass 
NAYS—156 
Ca´ rdenas 
Carney 
Carson (IN) 
Crowley 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
The Clerk read the title of the bill. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the passage of the bill. 
This is a 5-minute vote. 
Abraham 
[Roll No. 532] 
YEAS—270 
Barton Blum 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Beyer 
Blumenauer 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Chu, Judy 
Cicilline 
Davis, Danny 
DeFazio 
DeGette 
DeLauro 
The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 251, nays 
173, not voting 10, as follows: 
Aderholt 
Aguilar 
Allen 
Benishek 
Bera 
Bilirakis 
Bost 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Bonamici 
Boyle, Brendan 
F. 
Clark (MA) 
Clarke (NY) 
Cleaver 
DelBene 
DeSaulnier 
Deutch 
[Roll No. 533] 
YEAS—251 
Amodei Bishop (GA) Brat Brady (PA) Clyburn Dingell Abraham Ashford Benishek 
Ashford Bishop (MI) Bridenstine Brown (FL) Cohen Doggett Aderholt Babin Bilirakis 
Babin Bishop (UT) Brooks (AL) Butterfield Connolly Doyle, Michael Allen Barletta Bishop (MI) 
Barletta Black Brooks (IN) Capps Conyers F. Amash Barr Bishop (UT) 
Barr Blackburn Brownley (CA) Capuano Cooper Duncan (TN) Amodei Barton Black 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6779 

Blackburn Heck (NV) Poe (TX) Doyle, Michael Lee Richmond 
Blum Hensarling Poliquin F. Levin Roybal-Allard 
Bost Herrera Beutler Pompeo Duckworth Lewis Ruiz 
Boustany Hice, Jody B. Posey Edwards Lieu, Ted Ruppersberger 
Boyle, Brendan Hill Price, Tom Ellison Lipinski Rush 

F. Holding Ratcliffe Engel Loebsack Ryan (OH) 
Brady (TX) Huelskamp Reed Eshoo Lofgren Sa´nchez, Linda 
Brat Huizenga (MI) Renacci Esty Lowenthal T. 
Bridenstine Hultgren Ribble Farr Lowey Sanchez, Loretta 
Brooks (AL) Hunter Rice (SC) Foster Lujan Grisham Sarbanes 
Rigell

Brooks (IN) Hurd (TX) Frankel (FL) (NM) Schakowsky 
Buchanan Hurt (VA) Fudge Luja´n, Ben Ray Schiff

Roby 
Roe (TN)

Buck Issa Gabbard (NM) Schrader 
Bucshon Jenkins (KS) Gallego Lynch Scott (VA)

Rogers (AL)

Burgess Jenkins (WV) Garamendi Maloney, Scott, David

Rogers (KY)

Byrne Johnson (OH) Grayson Carolyn Serrano

Rohrabacher 

Calvert Johnson, Sam Green, Al Matsui Sewell (AL)

Rokita

Carter (GA) Jolly Grijalva McCollum Sherman

Rooney (FL)

Carter (TX) Jones Hahn McDermott Sires

Ros-Lehtinen

Chabot Jordan Hastings McGovern Slaughter

Roskam

Chaffetz Joyce Heck (WA) McNerney Smith (WA)

Ross

Clawson (FL) Katko Higgins Meeks Speier

Rothfus

Coffman Kelly (MS) Himes Meng Swalwell (CA)

Rouzer

Cole Kelly (PA) Hinojosa Moore Takai 

Royce

Collins (GA) King (IA) Honda Moulton Takano 
Comstock King (NY) Hoyer Murphy (FL) Thompson (CA)

Ryan (WI) 
Salmon

Conaway Kinzinger (IL) Huffman Nadler Thompson (MS)
Sanford

Cook Kline Israel Napolitano Titus 
Scalise

Costello (PA) Knight Jackson Lee Nolan Tonko 
Schweikert

Cramer Labrador Jeffries Norcross Torres 
Crawford LaHood Scott, Austin Johnson, E. B. O’Rourke Tsongas 
Crenshaw LaMalfa Sensenbrenner Kaptur Pallone Van Hollen 
Curbelo (FL) Lamborn Sessions Keating Pascrell Veasey 
Davis, Rodney Lance Shimkus Kennedy Payne Vela´zquez 
Denham Latta Shuster Kildee Pelosi Visclosky 
Dent LoBiondo Simpson Kilmer Peters Walz 
DeSantis Long Sinema Kind Pingree Wasserman 
DesJarlais Loudermilk Smith (MO) Kirkpatrick Pocan Schultz 
Diaz-Balart Love Smith (NE) Kuster Polis Waters, Maxine 
Dold Lucas Smith (NJ) Langevin Price (NC) Watson Coleman 
Donovan Luetkemeyer Smith (TX) Larsen (WA) Quigley Welch 
Duffy Lummis Stefanik Larson (CT) Rangel Wilson (FL) 
Duncan (SC) MacArthur Stewart Lawrence Rice (NY) Yarmuth 
Duncan (TN) Maloney, Sean Stivers 

NOT VOTING—10

Ellmers (NC) Marchant Stutzman 
Emmer (MN) Marino Thompson (PA) Collins (NY) Johnson (GA) Reichert 
Farenthold Massie Thornberry Culberson Kelly (IL) Russell 
Fattah McCarthy Tiberi Gutie´rrez Neal 
Fincher McCaul Hudson Perlmutter

Tipton

Fitzpatrick McClintock 

Trott 

Fleischmann McHenry b 1341

Turner 

Fleming McKinley 

Upton

Flores McMorris So the bill was passed.

Valadao

Forbes Rodgers The result of the vote was announced

Vargas

Fortenberry McSally 

Vela as above recorded. 

Foxx Meadows 

Wagner A motion to reconsider was laid on

Franks (AZ) Meehan 

Walberg

Frelinghuysen Messer the table. 

Walden

Garrett Mica 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION

Walker

Gibbs Miller (FL) 
Gibson Miller (MI) Walorski Mr. GUTIE´ RREZ. Mr. Speaker, I was un-
Walters, Mimi

Gohmert Moolenaar avoidably absent in the House chamber for

Weber (TX)

Goodlatte Mooney (WV) 

votes on Thursday, October 1, 2015 due to a

Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup family emergency.

Gosar Mullin 

Gowdy Mulvaney 
Graham Murphy (PA) Westerman Had I been present, I would have votedWestmoreland

Granger Neugebauer ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall vote 532, a vote on agreeing

Graves (GA) Newhouse Whitfield 

to the Conference Report to Accompany H.R.

Graves (LA) Noem Williams 
Graves (MO) Nugent Wilson (SC) 1735, National Defense Authorization Act for 

Green, Gene Nunes Wittman Fiscal Year 2016 because we cannot continue 
Griffith Olson Womack 

to put military spending on the credit card and

Grothman Palazzo Woodall 

violate our budget rules while critical domestic

Guinta Palmer Yoder 
Guthrie Paulsen Yoho investments are slashed. 

Hanna Pearce Young (AK) I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall vote

Hardy Perry Young (IA) 

533, a vote on final passage of H.R. 3457,

Harper Peterson Young (IN) 
Harris Pittenger Zeldin Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act be-
Hartzler Pitts Zinke cause I support peace and the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action (JCPOA) to prevent

NAYS—173 

a nuclear Iran. 

Adams Ca´rdenas Costa 

Finally, had I been present, I would have

Aguilar Carney Courtney 

voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall votes 529 and 530, and

Bass Carson (IN) Crowley 
Beatty Cartwright Cuellar ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall vote 531. 

Becerra Castor (FL) 

CummingsBera Castro (TX) f 

Davis (CA)

Beyer Chu, Judy 

Davis, Danny 

FURTHER MESSAGE FROM THE

Bishop (GA) Cicilline 

DeFazio

Blumenauer Clark (MA) SENATE

DeGette

Bonamici Clarke (NY) 

Delaney A further message from the Senate

Brady (PA) Clay 
Brown (FL) Cleaver by Ms. Curtis, one of its clerks, an-

DeLauro 
DelBene

Brownley (CA) Clyburn nounced that the Senate has passed a

DeSaulnier

Bustos Cohen 

bill of the House of the following title:

Deutch 
Capps Conyers Dingell H.R. 2835. An act to actively recruit mem-
Capuano Cooper Doggett bers of the Armed Forces who are separating 

Butterfield Connolly 

from military service to serve as Customs 
and Border Protection Officers. 

f 

PROVIDING FOR CORRECTIONS TO 

THE ENROLLMENT OF THE BILL 

H.R. 1735 

Mr. THORNBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I 
send to the desk a concurrent resolution 
and I ask unanimous consent for 
its immediate consideration in the 
House. 

The Clerk read the title of the concurrent 
resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

The text of the concurrent resolution 
is as follows: 

H. CON. RES. 81 
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the 
Senate concurring), That in the enrollment of 
the bill H.R. 1735, the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives shall in section 1301(b)— 

(1) strike ‘‘section 1504’’ and insert ‘‘section 
301’’; and 
(2) strike ‘‘section 4303’’ and insert ‘‘section 
4301’’. 
The concurrent resolution was agreed 
to. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER 
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 702 

Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent that my name be removed as a 
cosponsor of H.R. 702. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentlewoman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

f 

b 1345 

AMERICAN SAMOA MINIMUM 
WAGE INCREASE POSTPONEMENT 

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent 
to take from the Speaker’s table the 
bill (H.R. 2617) to amend the Fair Minimum 
Wage Act of 2007 to postpone a 
scheduled increase in the minimum 
wage applicable to American Samoa, 
with the Senate amendments thereto, 
and concur in the Senate amendments. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will report the Senate amendments. 


The Clerk read as follows: 

Senate amendments: 

Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 

SECTION 1. MINIMUM WAGE FOR AMERICAN 
SAMOA. 

(a) MINIMUM WAGE.—Paragraph (2) of section 
8103(b) of the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 
(29 U.S.C. 206 note) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(2) the minimum wage applicable to American 
Samoa under section 6(a)(1) of the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 
206(a)(1)) shall be— 

‘‘(A) the applicable wage rate in effect for 
each industry and classification as of September 
29, 2015; and 


H6780 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

‘‘(B) increased by $0.40 an hour (or such lesser 
amount as may be necessary to equal the minimum 
wage under section 6(a)(1) of such Act), 
beginning on September 30, 2015, and on September 
30 of every third year thereafter, until 
the minimum wage applicable to American 
Samoa under this paragraph is equal to the 
minimum wage set forth in such section.’’. 

(b) GAO REPORTS.—Section 8104 of the Fair 
Minimum Wage Act of 2007 (29 U.S.C. 206 note) 
is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘September 1, 2011’’ and inserting 
‘‘April 1, 2017’’; and 
(B) by striking the second sentence and inserting 
the following: ‘‘The Government Accountability 
Office shall submit a subsequent report 
not later than April 1, 2020.’’; 
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘the study 
under subsection (a)’’ and inserting ‘‘any report 
under subsection (a)’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(c) REPORT ON ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF INCREASING 
THE MINIMUM WAGE IN AMERICAN 
SAMOA.—Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of ‘An Act to amend the Fair Minimum 
Wage Act of 2007 to reduce a scheduled increase 
in the minimum wage applicable to American 
Samoa’, the Government Accountability 
Office shall transmit to Congress a report on alternative 
ways of increasing the minimum wage 
in American Samoa to keep pace with the cost of 
living in American Samoa and to eventually 
equal the minimum wage set forth in section 
6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 
(29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)).’’. 

(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This Act, and the 
amendments made by this Act, shall take effect 
as of September 29, 2015. 
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania 
(during the reading). Mr. Speaker, I 
ask unanimous consent that we dispense 
with the reading. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania? 

There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the original request of the 
gentleman from Pennsylvania? 

There was no objection. 

The title of the bill was amended so 
as to read: ‘‘An Act to amend the Fair 
Minimum Wage Act of 2007 to reduce a 
scheduled increase in the minimum 
wage applicable to American Samoa.’’. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. 
Mr. Speaker, I was absent for 
the second vote in the series of votes 
that we just took on rollcall vote No. 

532. If I had been present, I would have 
voted ‘‘nay.’’ 
f 

PERMISSION TO FILE SUPPLEMENTAL 
REPORT ON H.R. 702 

Mr. BARTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce be authorized 
to file a supplemental report 
on the bill H.R. 702. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
WESTERMAN). Is there objection to the 
request of the gentleman from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

STEM EDUCATION ACT OF 2015 
Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I 
ask unanimous consent to take from 
the Speaker’s table the bill (H.R. 1020) 
to define STEM education to include 
computer science, and to support existing 
STEM education programs at the 
National Science Foundation, with the 
Senate amendment thereto, and concur 
in the Senate amendment. 
The Clerk read the title of the bill. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will report the Senate amendment. 
The Clerk read as follows: 
Senate amendment: 
On page 5, strike lines 3 through 4 and insert 
the following: 

(3) in subsections (e) and (f), by striking ‘‘subsection 
(g)’’ each place it appears, and inserting 
‘‘subsection (h)’’; 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM 
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to 
the gentleman from California (Mr. 
MCCARTHY), the majority leader, for 
the purpose of inquiring about the 
schedule for the week to come. 
Mr. MCCARTHY. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. 
Mr. Speaker, on Monday, no votes 
are expected in the House. 
On Tuesday, the House will meet at 
noon for morning-hour and 2 p.m. for 
legislative business. Votes will be postponed 
until 6:30. 
On Wednesday and Thursday, the 
House will meet at 10 a.m. for morning-
hour and noon for legislative business. 
On Friday, the House will meet at 9 

a.m. for legislative business. Last votes 
of the week are expected no later than 
3 p.m. 
Mr. Speaker, the House will consider 
a number of suspensions next week, a 
complete list of which will be announced 
by close of business tomorrow. 

In addition, the House will consider 

H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance 
Act, sponsored by Representative 
FRENCH HILL of Arkansas. This bipartisan 
bill will provide relief to everyone 
who is doing their best to comply 
with the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau’s mortgage loan disclosure 
rule. 
Mr. Speaker, the House will also consider 
H.R. 538, the Native American Energy 
Act, sponsored by Representative 
DON YOUNG of Alaska, which is necessary 
to expedite energy production 
on tribal lands. 

And, finally, Mr. Speaker, the House 
will consider H.R. 702, sponsored by 
Representative JOE BARTON of Texas. 
Oil exports are key to creating American 
jobs and furthering America’s energy 
renaissance. 

Given the increased security threats 
facing the United States and its allies, 
the presence of more American oil in 
the global marketplace will offer more 
secure supply options. This will provide 
America with greater foreign policy influence 
as well as strengthening our 
economic and national security. 

I thank the gentleman. 

Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman 
for that information. 

Mr. Speaker, the last 2 weeks have 
been filled with a lot of things going on 
in this House. But I know the majority 
leader would be profoundly disappointed 
if I didn’t ask him about one 
thing that doesn’t seem to be going on, 
but which I think is critically important. 


I know the majority leader, Mr. 
Speaker, joins with me in not wanting 
to see American jobs lost overseas or 
American jobs not created here in 
America for American workers because 
we are able to make products and sell 
them overseas. 

So, Mr. Speaker, I would ask the distinguished 
majority leader, knowing 
full well, as he does, that Jeff Immelt, 
the CEO of GE, was here; and he spoke 
to both Democrats and Republicans. I 
know he talked about 500 U.S. jobs 
going overseas because we have not yet 
reauthorized the Export-Import Bank. 

The Senate voted 64–29 to reopen the 
Bank. They voted in July. Almost two-
thirds of the United States Senate. 

As the majority leader is tired of 
hearing, I know, but I still believe 
there is a significant majority of Members 
in this House that would vote for 
it. 

Now, I want to tell you, Mr. Speaker, 
I was extraordinarily pleased to read— 
I didn’t hear, but read—the majority 
leader’s comments when he was talking 
about the failure of the Senate to proceed 
on a vote of disapproval or approval 
on the agreement with Iran on 
nuclear arms control. 

He said he was deeply distressed that 
‘‘so consequential that they demand revisions 
to the Senate’s procedures.’’ 
And he went on to say those revisions 
would be ‘‘to let the people’’—in this 
case, the Senate—‘‘have a voice’’ That 
was quoted in The Wall Street Journal 
just a few days ago. 

I know the gentleman doesn’t want 
us to lose jobs. I know he is quoted as 
saying that the people’s voice ought to 
be heard. I know that he shares with 
me that this is the people’s House. 

And I ask the gentleman: It is not on 
the schedule next week, but does the 
gentleman expect the Export-Import 
Bank to be voted on in this House before 
the end of this month? 

I yield to my friend. 

Mr. MCCARTHY. I thank the gentleman. 


In honor of the late Yogi Berra, ‘‘It’s 
like deja vu all over again.’’ There is 
no action scheduled in the House on 
Ex-Im. 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, that is the 
answer I expected. That is the answer I 
have been getting. And, very frankly, 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6781 

that is the answer this House has been 
getting. 

I know some of my Republican 
friends are very frustrated by that answer, 
and I know all of our side is frustrated 
by that answer. 

I will say respectfully to my friend I 
would certainly hope we could bring 
that bill to the floor. 

Win or lose, whether you win or I win 
or Export-Import Bank is reauthorized 
or not, you are correct: the voice of the 
people should be heard on such a critical 
issue for jobs in this country. 

Also, I know that we had marked up 
in committees reconciliation bills. 
Those reconciliation bills repeal provisions 
of the Affordable Care Act and 
defund Planned Parenthood. 

The gentleman I think knows full 
well that the United States Senate 
voted on the Planned Parenthood issue 
and only got 47 votes for it. So in the 
one instance, we have an issue that got 
three less than one-half of the United 
States Senate being proposed to come 
to this floor, and an issue that got 64 
votes in the United States Senate, as 
the gentleman so correctly observed, is 
not yet scheduled. 

Can the gentleman tell me whether 
or not these reconciliation provisions 
are going to be brought to this floor, 
knowing full well that they won’t pass 
the Senate and, even if they did, the 
President wouldn’t sign them and we 
would sustain that veto? 

I yield to my friend. 

Mr. MCCARTHY. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. 

Knowing the rules of reconciliation, I 
do believe it will pass the Senate. 

The three committees that received 
reconciliation instructions from the 
Budget Committee have marked up 
their portions, as the gentleman has 
said. 

I do expect the Budget Committee to 
meet in the near future to complete 
their work, and we will notify Members 
as soon as that is scheduled for the 
floor. 

Mr. HOYER. Thank you. 

Mr. Speaker, we may have a difference 
of opinion, but perhaps we will 
see who is right on whether it passes 
the United States Senate or not. I understand 
reconciliation only needs a 
majority, but we will see. 

Mr. Speaker, I want to also ask the 
majority leader: One of the issues that 
I know the majority leader has been 
working on—and I know that all of us 
on this floor feel it to be very, very important 
to pass before October 30, when 
the highway bill authorization expires, 
and I know the gentleman from California 
is a strong supporter of it. Clearly 
we need to invest in infrastructure, 
again, to expand the economy. 

Can the gentleman tell me what prospects 
we have on passing or at least 
considering the highway bill? 

I yield to my friend. 

Mr. MCCARTHY. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding. 

As the gentleman knows, the hardest 
thing to do in this town is to find pay-

fors. But Chairman RYAN continues to 
have bipartisan discussions on ways to 
pay for the long-term highway bill. 

I have had follow-up meetings with 
him today, and they are progressing 
over in the Senate. I have met with 
Chairman SHUSTER even today as well, 
and I expect an announcement very 
shortly on committee movement. 

We will advise Members as soon as 
action is taken to schedule it for the 
floor. 

Mr. HOYER. I thank the leader. 

I hope that optimism is realized and 
that we do have the opportunity to 
consider a highway bill. I would urge 
the majority leader to urge those who 
are working on a resolution that the 
pay-fors, which are difficult, as he observes, 
are pay-fors which can be supported 
in a bipartisan fashion. 

I think that is important not only to 
pass the Senate, but to be signed by 
the President. And we all, I think, 
share the view that this is a very, very 
important bill for us to get done. 

With that, unless the majority leader 
may want to reconsider and tell me the 
Export-Import Bank is coming to the 
floor, which apparently he doesn’t, I 
yield back the balance of my time. 

f 

HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW; 
AND ADJOURNMENT FROM 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2015, TO 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2015 

Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that, when the 
House adjourns today, it adjourn to 
meet at 1 p.m. tomorrow, and further, 
when the House adjourns on that day, 
it adjourn to meet on Tuesday, October 
6, 2015, when it shall convene at noon 
for morning-hour debate and 2 p.m. for 
legislative business. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from California? 

There was no objection. 

f 

b 1400 

CONGRATULATING JOHNSTOWN, 

PENNSYLVANIA, HOCKEYVILLE, 

USA 

(Mr. ROTHFUS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to congratulate Johnstown, 
Pennsylvania, for hosting the first-ever 
Kraft Hockeyville USA game this week 
and the Pittsburgh Penguins for their 
4–2 victory over the Tampa Bay Lightning 
in the game. 

The Kraft competition to choose 
America’s Hockeyville was conducted 
in partnership with the National Hockey 
League Players’ Association and the 
National Hockey League. Towns across 
the country submitted stories showing 
their passion for hockey, and more 
than 20 million votes were cast. But as 
the contest results revealed, few places 
in America love hockey like Johnstown 

does, and Johnstown rightly deserves 
the title, ‘‘Hockeyville, USA.’’ 

Johnstown was the home of the fictional 
hockey team the Charleston 
Chiefs in the 1977 movie, ‘‘Slap Shot.’’ 
Scenes from the movie were filmed at 
Cambria County War Memorial Arena. 
We also can’t forget the Johnstown 
Jets, who played here from 1950 to 1977 
and won five Eastern Hockey League 
championships from 1951 to 1962. 

As Penguins coach Mike Johnston 
said after the Penguins’ victory: ‘‘It’s a 
great arena. The excitement in the 
building, the excitement in town, I just 
think it’s special.’’ 

f 

RECOGNIZING THE GROWING 
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS IN SYRIA 

(Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California 
asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 minute and 
to revise and extend her remarks.) 

Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ of California. 
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the growing humanitarian crisis 
in Syria. As a result of the Syrian civil 
war and continuing military operations 
against ISIL, over 4 million people 
have been forced to seek refuge outside 
of Syria. 

The Syrian crisis has quickly become 
an international crisis, and it requires 
the attention and the assistance of 
every nation. Many may see this crisis 
as a distant problem, but the reality is 
this is a global world now and everyone 
is interconnected. 

As each nation continues to resettle 
refugees, we must ensure that they are 
provided the best resources, and this 
requires international cooperation. It 
is not just about providing financial assistance, 
but understanding that these 
refugees are people. They are people 
who have been forced out of their country, 
might have left their families, and 
are struggling to survive on a daily 
basis. 

Mr. Speaker, as the U.S. is committed 
to accepting more refugees, I 
urge our country to have compassion 
and to commit to providing the necessary 
resources to address this ongoing 
crisis. 

f 

THE GENOCIDE OF CHRISTIANS 
ACROSS THE MIDDLE EAST 

(Mr. ROHRABACHER asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, I 
join my colleague from Orange County, 
California, and her deep concern for 
what is going on in the Middle East. 

Today I rise to speak out about the 
genocide that is taking place in the 
Middle East, that is being committed 
against Christians across the Middle 
East. They are being victimized and 
targeted for genocide. Violent radical 
Islamists have targeted Middle Eastern 
Christians for extinction, killing them, 
forcing them from their homes, and 
burning their churches. 


H6782 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

Hundreds of thousands of Christians 
have been forced to flee. The United 
States needs to do what we can to save 
these Christian victims, as we have 
saved other refugees throughout our 
history 

Mr. Speaker, all of us who believe in 
religious freedom and tolerance need to 
stand up and state clearly that we 
won’t sit quietly as a genocide takes 
place on our watch. I ask my colleagues 
to join me in cosponsoring a 
resolution that I have here in my hand, 
that resolution declaring Middle Eastern 
Christians as targets of genocide 
and giving them priority for immigration 
and refugee status. 

We have been silent already for too 
long. It is time for this body to make 
sure that our words are heard and our 
deeds are taken. This is a good place to 
start, and I ask my colleagues to join 
me in this resolution which I will now 
submit to the United States House of 
Representatives. 

f 

BUDGET NEGOTIATIONS 
(Mrs. LAWRENCE asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, yesterday 
I and many of my colleagues 
had to hold our noses as we voted for a 
short-term continuing resolution. The 
CR, thankfully, did not cut funding to 
Planned Parenthood, which provided 

2.7 million Americans—women, men, 
and youth—with medical services last 
year. But this CR is only good until 
December 11, and it leaves out funding 
for a vital program like the Ex-Im 
Bank. In less than 10 weeks, we will be 
right back here fighting against another 
government shutdown. 
Mr. Speaker, do we really want to 
fail our military veterans, our seniors, 
our families, and our voters? I say no. 
Let’s do the right thing. Let’s do our 
job. Let’s come up with a long-term 
budget that serves the American people, 
American businesses, and the 
American economy. 

f 

RECOGNIZING LOREN THORSON OF 
GREEN VALLEY, ARIZONA 

(Ms. MCSALLY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Ms. MCSALLY. Mr. Speaker, we are 
called the people’s House for a reason. 
We are sent to Washington to be the direct 
voices of our constituents back 
home. Last week, it was my honor to 
take action on an issue that was originally 
brought to my attention by one 
of my constituents from Green Valley, 
Arizona. 

Loren Thorson served in World War 
II as a Navy commander. When he saw 
a report 5 years ago describing a little-
known tax increase in the Affordable 
Care Act that is hurting families and is 
scheduled to hit seniors in 2017, he 
looked into it and knew something had 
to be done. He has sent letters, made 

phone calls, written editorials, and 
done much more to raise the alarm 
about this little-known issue. 

After hearing about this issue from 
him, my office has worked with Members 
from both parties in the House and 
in the Senate to move the issue forward 
and fix it. Those efforts resulted 
in my introduction last week of bipartisan 
legislation, with my lead, to repeal 
this tax hike and put Loren’s ideas 
into action. 

Mr. Speaker, this is how our government 
is supposed to work. I am grateful 
for Loren’s tireless efforts to protect 
seniors and middle class families, 
and I will continue to work to advance 
his and my constituents’ ideas in Congress. 


f 

REAUTHORIZE THE EXPORT-
IMPORT BANK 

(Mrs. BUSTOS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, for too 
long, this Congress has governed from 
one crisis to the next. Yesterday, when 
we were just hours away from another 
self-inflicted Washington wound, two 
news pieces were published that I 
would like to share: number one, the 
CEO of Honeywell, a company with a 
significant presence in my district, 
published an article about the economic 
damage of Congress’ failure to 
reauthorize the Export-Import Bank; 
then Bloomberg published a story with 
the headline, ‘‘Boeing Risks Losing $1.1 
Billion Jet Order on Ex-Im Shutdown.’’ 

Washington gridlock is putting the 
jobs of thousands of Americans at risk. 
This includes hundreds of the people I 
serve in Rockford and the Quad Cities. 

But today is a new day; it is a new 
month. Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my 
colleagues to turn over a new leaf of bipartisanship. 
Let’s work together, reauthorize 
the Ex-Im Bank, and protect 
these good-paying manufacturing jobs 
before it is too late. 

f 

THE MEDICAL EVALUATION PARITY 
FOR SERVICEMEMBERS ACT 

(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania 
asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Speaker, just a few minutes ago, I 
cast an affirmative vote for the National 
Defense Authorization Act for 
2016. However, I do have great concern 
over an important measure which was 
all but removed from the legislation we 
voted on today. 

Earlier this year, I authored the Medical 
Evaluation Parity for Service-
members, or MEPS, Act. The MEPS 
Act would improve military suicide 
prevention by instituting a mental 
health assessment for all incoming 
military recruits, which can be used as 
a baseline for evaluations throughout 
their military careers. The conferenced 
version of the NDAA merely calls for 

the Department of Defense to continue 
to study such a screening. 

Mr. Speaker, this issue has been 
studied thoroughly over the past several 
years. I strongly urge the Pentagon 
to act quickly to take steps in 
better assessing the mental health of 
our servicemen and -women with a 
commonsense baseline evaluation. 

A recent Army study found that 
nearly one in five Army soldiers enter 
the service with a psychiatric disorder, 
and nearly half of all soldiers who tried 
suicide first attempted it before enlisting. 


I call on the Pentagon to stop studying 
to death the death of our soldiers. 
Mr. Speaker, we need to act now. 

f 

THE BENGHAZI COMMITTEE 
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
her remarks.) 
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I 
have a great deal of respect for this institution 
that I have had the privilege 
of serving. As a member of the Judiciary 
Committee, I am very grateful for 
the extent of our jurisdiction that embraces 
the Constitution, and I believe 
justice is important. 
Mr. Speaker, I rise in great consternation, 
concern, and condemnation 
of the statement made by the Republican 
leadership that the Benghazi 
Committee is not for factfinding, it is 
not for recognizing the tragic loss of 
four Americans, but it is really to insult 
and degrade a public servant who 
happens to be a Presidential candidate. 
How tragic that we would engage in 
such tomfoolery. In spite of the Constitution 
and the Madison Papers, it 
talks about doing justice. 
As a member of the Judiciary Committee, 
I was engaged in impeachment 
proceedings, the investigation of Waco, 
investigation of antitrust issues, held a 
trial for a judge who acted improperly, 
a Federal judge. That is the factfinding 
role of this Nation. 
While we are fooling around with a 
committee that is there to do nothing 
but deal with political aggrandizing 
and we have not passed a Zadroga Act 
that helps our 9/11 first responders, I 
would only ask that we stop and end 
this committee because it is not doing 
justice as the United States calls us to 
do. 
Mr. Speaker, the Constitution gives 
us our guideposts. Why don’t we follow 
it? 

f 

HONORING ARTHUR WILLIAM 
‘‘BILL’’ BAILEY, JR. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
WALKER). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of January 6, 2015, the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. FLORES) is 
recognized for 60 minutes as the designee 
of the majority leader. 

Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor Arthur William ‘‘Bill’’ 
Bailey, Jr., of Waco, Texas, who passed 
away on August 18, 2015. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6783 

Bill Bailey was a Korean war veteran, 
a renowned Waco businessman, 
and a distinguished alumnus and 
former regent at Baylor University. He 
touched many lives in the Waco and 
Baylor communities, and he will be 
greatly missed. 

Bill was born in Waco on April 24, 
1929. He graduated from Waco High 
School in 1946 and enrolled in Baylor 
University. On December 15, 1950, Bill 
married his high school sweetheart, 
Roberta Hatch. They were married for 
almost 64 years prior to Roberta’s passing 
in 2014. Roberta and Bill had 3 sons 
and were blessed with 10 grandchildren 
and 4 great-grandchildren. 

Bill graduated from Baylor University 
in 1951 with a B.A. degree and a 
law degree. While at Baylor, he was a 
member of the debate team and the 
Baylor Chamber of Commerce. 

Bill served our Nation in the United 
States Air Force as a first lieutenant 
in the JAG division during the Korean 
war. He was ultimately promoted to 
captain in the U.S. Air Force Reserves. 

After concluding his service to our 
Nation, Bill returned to Waco to enter 
into the insurance business. In 1956, he 
established his own independent insurance 
agency, Bill Bailey Insurance 
Agency, which is now known as Bailey 
Insurance and Risk Management, Inc. 
He became a noted State and national 
leader in the insurance industry. 

Mr. Speaker, because of his expertise 
in risk management, he was called 
upon to testify before the United 
States Senate and the United States 
House of Representatives committees 
as well as the Federal Reserve Board, 
all on behalf of the insurance industry. 

In 1969, Bill teamed up with a group 
of his fellow Texas insurance agents to 
establish the Certified Insurance Counselors 
Program, which focused on 
teaching advanced insurance topics to 
ensure high-quality standards of ethics 
and professionalism in the insurance 
industry. This program would become 
the foundation of the National Alliance 
for Insurance Education and Research. 
Today, these certification programs 
are conducted in all 50 States with 
more than 150,000 participants annually. 


Bill held many prestigious positions 
on various boards, including as the 
chairman of the Board of Governors for 
the National Alliance for Insurance 
Education and Research; the president 
of the Independent Insurance Agents 
and Brokers Association of America; 
the liaison to the National Association 
of Insurance Commissioners for the 
Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers 
Association of America; and as director, 
executive committee member, 
and past vice chairman of the Texas 
National Bank of Waco. 

Bill’s work in the insurance industry 
was honored by the Independent Insurance 
Agents and Brokers Association 
of America when they dedicated their 
conference room in the Washington, 
D.C., office as the A. William Bailey, 
Jr., Conference Room. 

He was also a recipient of the Independent 
Insurance Agents and Brokers 
Association of America Woodworth Memorial 
Award for Meritorious Service 
to the Insurance Profession, as well as 
the Drex Foreman Award of the Independent 
Insurance Agents of Texas. 
Both of these are the highest distinctions 
for these respective organizations. 


b 1415 
Bill was active in the Waco and 
Baylor University communities and 
served as the following: Trustee, Vice 
Chairman of the Board, and Regent of 
Baylor University; Officer, Director, 
and Executive Committee Member of 
the Waco Industrial Foundation; Member 
and Chairman of the Hillcrest Baptist 
Medical Center Board of Development; 
Founder and Past President of 
the Waco Business League; and President 
of the following organizations: the 
Greater Waco United way; the Baylor-
Waco and Baylor Bear Foundations; 
the Waco and Northwest Waco Rotary 
Clubs; the Waco YMCA; the Waco Camp 
Fire Girls; and the Baylor Stadium 
Corporation. 
In 1988, Bill was honored by the 
Baylor Alumni Association with the 

W.R. White Meritorious Service Award. 
In 1997, they honored him as a Distinguished 
Alumnus. Additionally, in 2008, 
the Waco Public Schools honored him 
as a Distinguished Alumnus. 
Bill was an active member of the 
First Baptist Church of Waco, where he 
served as Trustee, Deacon, and Chairman 
of the Board of Deacons; Chairman 
of the Finance Committee; Founding 
Chairman of the First Baptist 
Church of Waco Foundation; President 
of the McCall Sunday School Class; and 
Co-Superintendent of the College Sunday 
School Department. 

Mr. Speaker, Bill Bailey will not only 
be remembered for his long list of accomplishments, 
but, most importantly, 
he will be forever remembered as a loving 
husband, a father, a grandfather, a 
great-grandfather, and a loyal friend to 
hundreds of central Texans. 

My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest 
and heartfelt condolences to the Bailey 
family. We also lift up the family and 
friends of Bill Bailey in our prayers. 

As I close, I ask that all Americans 
continue to pray for our country, for 
our military men and women who protect 
us abroad, and for our first responders 
who protect us here at home. 

HONORING MATTIE LEE PHILLIPS 

Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor Mattie Lee Phillips 
from Bryan, Texas, who passed away on 
August 25, 2015, her 103rd birthday. 

Mrs. Phillips was born in Washington 
County, Texas, on August 25, 1912. 
Growing up, Mrs. Phillips attended 
school in the Waco and McGregor areas 
and later attended Bryan Public School 
for Colored. She married Willie Sterling 
in 1931. They were blessed with 
five children. Later she married Eddie 
Phillips. They were blessed with four 
children. 

Mrs. Phillips was a member of the 
New Liberty Baptist Church in 
Boonville, Texas, at an early age and 
remained a member until 1941, when 
she became a member of the Pleasant 
Grove Missionary Baptist Church in 
Bryan. 

She was an avid church worker, serving 
on the Pleasant Grove Church 
Usher Board for 35 years and as a Sunday 
school teacher and a mission 
teacher. She served on various programs 
and committees at the church 
and worked tirelessly raising funds to 
help improve their church facilities. 

Mrs. Phillips taught and counseled 
numerous youth during her life. She 
was a staunch believer in higher education, 
and all nine of her children attended 
college. 

Mrs. Phillips was an entrepreneur 
who took sewing and tailoring classes 
through the mail and worked for many 
years as a self-employed seamstress. 
She also bought, repaired, and resold 
real estate for additional income. In 
addition, she successfully owned and 
operated Phillips Cafe & Barbecue. 

Mrs. Phillips led a full life and was 
well respected in our community. She 
will be forever remembered for her devotion 
to her church and her community 
and as a loving wife, a mother, a 
grandmother, a great-grandmother, 
and a great-great-grandmother, a 
youth mentor to hundreds, and a friend 
to many as well. 

My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest 
and heartfelt condolences to the Phillips 
and Sterling families. We also lift 
up the family and friends of Mattie Lee 
Phillips in our prayers. 

As I close, I ask that all Americans 
continue to pray for our country, for 
our military men and women who protect 
us abroad, and for our first responders 
who protect us here at home. 

HONORING TOMMY BOSQUEZ 

Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor Henry Thomas 
‘‘Tommy’’ Bosquez, of Bryan, Texas, 
who passed away on September 12, 2015. 

Tommy Bosquez selflessly served the 
Brazos Valley community in a variety 
of ways, and he will be missed greatly. 

Tommy was born on August 9, 1962, 
in Bryan, Texas. He graduated from 
Bryan High School in 1980. When he 
was 19, he began his public service career 
as a City of Bryan police officer. 
He was the city’s youngest policeman 
and served on the force for 8 years. 

He held various assignments, including 
patrol, special advanced traffic investigations, 
the field training officer 
program, crime scene analysis, and 
honor guard detail. 

Tommy was also a member of the 
Texas State Guard. He was commissioned 
as a second lieutenant, serving 
as company commander in the 223rd 
Military Police Battalion, to assist 
State and local authorities in times of 
emergencies. 

Tommy married his high school 
sweetheart, Stella Grimaldo. They 
were married for 29 years and were 
blessed with two daughters. 


H6784 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

Tommy earned his associate’s degree 
from Blinn College and later earned an 
undergraduate degree in political 
science in 1989 and a master’s degree in 
public administration in 1995, each 
from Texas A&M University. 

During his time at Texas A&M and 
the years that followed, he worked for 
the university. He started out in the 
College of Medicine, where he held various 
positions, including Director of 
Special Programs, Special Assistant to 
the Dean of Medicine, admissions committee 
member, principal investigator, 
and a lecturer in the Department of 
Humanities in Medicine. 

He would go on to work for the university 
system in the Office of the Vice 
Chancellor for Human Resources, 
where he assumed a leadership role 
with the Health Science Center, working 
as Special Assistant to the President. 


Prior to his death, Tommy worked as 
the Chief Contracts Officer and Director 
for Contract Administrator in the 
Office of Finance and Administration 
at the Texas A&M Health Science Center. 


Tommy was an active volunteer and 
an engaged parent in the Bryan Independent 
School District for over 25 
years. He began his service as an elected 
school board trustee in 2012 and 
served as vice president of that board. 

He also served extensively on various 
local and statewide charitable and educational 
organization boards such as 
the Texas Association for Access and 
Equity, the Texas Association of Advisers 
for the Health Professions, the 
Texas Area Health Education Centers— 
East, the Bryan-College Station Chamber 
of Commerce, the Bryan ISD Education 
Foundation, the Blinn College 
Advisory Board, the United Way, the 
Boy’s and Girl’s Club, the Kiwanis, 
Gear Up, Habitat for Humanity, and 
Junior Achievement. 

Tommy received many acknowledgements 
throughout his career, including 
the 2007 Texas Association of Chicanos 
in Higher Education Outstanding Meritorious 
Public Service Award, and the 
Kiwanis International Walter Zeller 
Fellowship Award. 

Tommy worked tirelessly to better 
our community. He will forever be remembered 
for his devotion to public 
service and as a loving husband, father, 
and friend to countless Brazos Valley 
citizens. 

My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest 
and heartfelt condolences to the 
Bosquez family. We also lift up the 
family and friends of Tommy Bosquez 
in our prayers. 

As I close, I ask that all Americans 
continue to pray for our country and 
for our military men and women, who 
protect us abroad, and for our first responders, 
who protect us here at home. 

HONORING DR. JAMES COOPER 

Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor Dr. James F. Cooper of 
Bryan, Texas, who passed away on August 
18, 2015. 

Dr. James Cooper was a veteran of 
World War II and the Korean war. He 

was a physician, an aviation medical 
examiner, and an active member of the 
Veterans of Foreign Wars. He touched 
many lives in the Brazos Valley, and he 
will be greatly missed. 

Dr. Cooper was born on August 30, 
1927, in Farmersville, Louisiana. He 
was the son of a Baptist preacher and 
grew up in many towns throughout the 
South. 

At the age of 17, Dr. Cooper enlisted 
in the Navy to serve aboard the USS 
Dorchester in the South Pacific. Upon 
returning to the U.S., he used his GI 
bill benefits to attend medical school 
in Tennessee. 

He then served again in the Korean 
war as Deputy Medical Officer for the 
Destroyer Fleet Atlantic, stationed 
aboard its flagship, the USS Yosemite. 
Dr. Cooper retired from the Navy with 
a final rank of Lieutenant Commander, 
Medical Corps. 

In 1955, Dr. Cooper moved to Bryan, 
Texas, and entered a medical practice 
with his brother, O.C. Dr. Cooper was a 
well-loved family doctor and a surgeon 
at St. Joseph’s Hospital. 

In addition to his medical practice, 
the good doctor had a strong affinity 
for aviation and specialized in aviation 
medicine. He was involved with the 
space programs at NASA and present 
at many of the Apollo launches. His 
knowledge and experience with NASA 
missions earned him the opportunity 
to do voice commentary for six Apollo 
launches for television broadcasts in 
Australia. 

Dr. Cooper also served as a FAA Senior 
Aviation Medical Examiner. As a 
fellow pilot, I was fortunate and grateful 
to have Dr. Cooper as my medical 
examiner for many years. We developed 
a strong friendship and shared many 
stories about our mutual love for aviation. 


Dr. Cooper was an extraordinary doctor 
not only specializing in aviation, 
but also serving as Chief Medical Officer 
for the Texas World Speedway in 
College Station. 

In addition to his medical duties, Dr. 
Cooper was an active member of VFW 
Post No. 4692 in Bryan. He was very 
passionate about the VFW and even 
served as Commander of the post. 

Mr. Speaker, Dr. Cooper left a strong 
legacy for his family and for the Brazos 
Valley. He will be forever remembered 
as a great doctor, a dedicated veteran, 
a loving husband, a great father, a 
grandfather, and a loyal friend. 

My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest 
and heartfelt condolences to the Cooper 
family. We also lift up the family 
and friends of Dr. James Cooper in our 
prayers. 

As I close, I ask that all Americans 
continue to pray for our country, for 
our military men and women, who protect 
us abroad, and for our first responders, 
who protect us here at home. 

HONORING ALAN WALDIE 

Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor Alan Duane Waldie, of 
Bryan, Texas, who passed away on August 
22, 2015. 

Alan Waldie was a veteran, an electrical 
engineer, an Aggie, a pillar of 
the Brazos Valley community, and a 
great friend. He led a full life and will 
be missed greatly in our community. 

Alan was born on April 23, 1928, in 
Iowa Park, Texas. He graduated from 
Lamar High School in Houston in 1945 
and later attended Texas A&M University. 


While at Texas A&M, Alan was a 
member of the nationally famous 
‘‘Fightin’ Texas Aggie Band’’ and 
served as drum major during his senior 
year. He graduated from Texas A&M 
University in 1951 with a bachelor’s of 
science in electrical engineering. 

From 1946 to 1948, Alan served in the 

U.S. Navy. From 1951 to 1953, he served 
as a lieutenant in the U.S. Army Signal 
Corps. 
After his discharge from the Army, 
Alan began a successful business career, 
which took him to Houston; Tripoli, 
Libya; and Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 


In 1995, he moved back to College 
Station to begin his retirement. There 
he served as a volunteer for the George 
Bush Presidential Library and was the 
member of the Bryan Rotary Club and 
the Central Baptist Church. 

Mr. Speaker, Alan Waldie will be forever 
remembered as a dedicated veteran, 
a loving husband, a great father, 
and a loyal friend. 

My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest 
and heartfelt condolences to his wife, 
Nancy, and to all of the Waldie family. 
We also lift up the family and friends 
of Alan Waldie in our prayers. 

Mr. Speaker, as I close, I ask that all 
Americans continue to pray for our 
country, for our military men and 
women, who protect us abroad, and for 
our first responders, who protect us 
here at home. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

f 

COMMUNICATION FROM THE 
CLERK OF THE HOUSE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives: 

OFFICE OF THE CLERK, 

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, September 30, 2015. 

Hon. JOHN A. BOEHNER, 

The Speaker, House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: Pursuant to the permission 
granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II of 
the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
I have the honor to transmit a sealed 
envelope received from the White House on 
September 30, 2015, at 8:45 p.m., and said to 
contain a message from the President whereby 
he notifies of designation of funding for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War 
on Terrorism as provided in the Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2016. 

With best wishes, I am 

Sincerely, 

KAREN L. HAAS, 

Clerk of the House. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6785 

DESIGNATION OF FUNDING FOR 
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/
GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM—
MESSAGE FROM THE 
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED 
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 114–62) 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following message 
from the President of the United 
States; which was read and, together 
with the accompanying papers, referred 
to the Committee on Appropriations 
and ordered to be printed: 

To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with section 114(c) of 
the Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2016, also titled the TSA Office of Inspection 
Accountability Act of 2015 
(the ‘‘Act’’), I hereby designate for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism all funding (including 
the rescission of funds) and 
contributions from foreign governments 
so designated by the Congress in 
the Act pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
as outlined in the enclosed list of accounts. 


The details of this action are set 
forth in the enclosed memorandum 
from the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget. 

BARACK OBAMA. 
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 30, 2015. 

f 

b 1430 

COMMUNICATION FROM THE 
CLERK OF THE HOUSE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives: 

OFFICE OF THE CLERK, 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, September 30, 2015. 

Hon. JOHN A. BOEHNER, 

The Speaker, House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: Pursuant to the permission 
granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II of 
the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
I have the honor to transmit a sealed 
envelope received from the White House on 
September 30, 2015, at 8:45 p.m., and said to 
contain a message from the President whereby 
he notifies that he has designated an 
emergency requirement $700 million in emergency 
funding for urgent wildland fire suppression 
activities as provided in the Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2016. 

With best wishes, I am 

Sincerely, 

KAREN L. HAAS, 

Clerk of the House. 

f 

DESIGNATION OF FUNDING AS AN 
EMERGENCY REQUIREMENT— 
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 
OF THE UNITED STATES (H. DOC. 
NO. 114–63) 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following message 
from the President of the United 
States; which was read and, together 
with the accompanying papers, referred 
to the Committee on Appropriations 
and ordered to be printed: 

To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with section 135 of the 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2016, 
also titled the TSA Office of Inspection 
Accountability Act of 2015 (the ‘‘Act’’), 
I hereby designate as an emergency requirement 
all funding so designated by 
the Congress in the Act pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, as amended, for the following 
account: ‘‘Department of Agriculture—
Forest Service—Wildland Fire 
Management.’’ 

The details of this action are set 
forth in the enclosed memorandum 
from the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget. 

BARACK OBAMA. 
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 30, 2015. 

f 

LEAVE OF ABSENCE 

By unanimous consent, leave of absence 
was granted to: 

Mr. CULBERSON (at the request of Mr. 
MCCARTHY) for today on account of illness. 


Mr. GUTIE´ RREZ (at the request of Ms. 
PELOSI) for today. 

f 

ENROLLED BILL SIGNED 

Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House, 
reported and found truly enrolled a bill 
of the House of the following title, 
which was thereupon signed by the 
Speaker on September 30, 2015: 

H.R. 719. An act to require the Transportation 
Security Administration to conform 
to existing Federal law and regulations regarding 
criminal investigator positions, and 
for other purposes. 
f 

ADJOURNMENT 

Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I move 
that the House do now adjourn. 

The motion was agreed to; accordingly 
(at 2 o’clock and 32 minutes 
p.m.), under its previous order, the 
House adjourned until tomorrow, Friday, 
October 2, 2015, at 1 p.m. 

f 

EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, 
ETC. 

Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive 
communications were taken from the 
Speaker’s table and referred as follows: 

2986. A letter from the Under Secretary for 
Management, Department of State, transmitting 
a letter reporting two violations of 
the Antideficiency Act by the Department of 
State, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 1517(b); to the 
Committee on Appropriations. 

2987. A letter from the Program Specialist 
(Paperwork Reduction Act), Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of 
the Treasury, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule — Regulatory Capital Rules: Regulatory 
Capital, Final Revisions Applicable to 
Banking Organizations Subject to the Advanced 
Approaches Risk-Based Capital Rule 
[Docket ID: OCC-2014-0025] (RIN: 1557-AD88) 
received September 29, 2015, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Financial 
Services. 
2988. A letter from the Assistant Secretary, 
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, 
Department of Energy, transmitting the Department’s 
recommendations to Congress 
concerning energy performance requirements 
for fiscal years 2016 through 2025, in 
accordance with the National Energy Conservation 
Policy Act [45 U.S.C.8253(a)(3)]; to 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce. 

2989. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
direct final rule — Significant 
New Use Rules on Certain Chemical Substances 
[EPA-HQ-OPPT-2015-0388; FRL-9933-

30] (RIN: 2070-AB27) received September 30, 
2015, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added 
by Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 
2990. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule — National Emission 
Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for 
Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants [EPA-
HQ-OAR-2011-0797; FRL-9934-16-OAR] (RIN: 
2060-AQ92) received September 30, 2015, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public 
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce. 

2991. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
direct final rule — Approval and 
Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Massachusetts; Approval of Regulations 
Limiting Emissions of Volatile Organic 
Compounds and Nitrogen Oxides [EPA-
R01-OAR-2014-0631; A-1-FRL-9932-12-Region 1] 
received September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
2992. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
direct final rule — Air Plan Approval; 
Illinois; Volatile Organic Compounds 
Definition [EPA-R05-OAR-2015-0008; FRL-
9934-11-Region 5] received September 30, 2015, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by 
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

2993. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Implementation Plans; Georgia 
Infrastructure Requirements for the 2008 
Lead NAAQS [EPA-R04-OAR-2014-0442; FRL-
9934-84-Region 4] received September 30, 2015, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by 
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

2994. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule — Revisions to the California 
State Implementation Plan, Butte 
County Air Quality Management District, 
Feather River Air Quality Management District, 
and San Luis Obispo County Air Pollution 
Control District; Correcting Amendment 
[EPA-R09-OAR-2015-0246; FRL-9931-19-
Region 9] received September 30, 2015, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public 
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce. 

2995. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
direct final rule — Revision of Air 
Quality Implementation Plan; California; 
Feather River Air Quality Management District; 
Stationary Source Permits [EPA-R09-
OAR-2015-0542; FRL-9933-52-Region 9] received 
September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-

H6786 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 

2996. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
direct final rule — Revisions to 
the California State Implementation Plan, 
Antelope Valley Air Quality Management 
District [EPA-R09-OAR-2015-0510; FRL-9934-
04-Region 9] received September 30, 2015, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public 
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce. 

2997. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule — Air Plan Approval; 
California; Mammoth Lakes; Redesignation; 
PM10 Maintenance Plan [EPA-R09-OAR-2015-
0279; FRL-9935-05-Region 9] received September 
30, 2015, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-121, 
Sec. 251; to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. 

2998. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Maryland; Adoption of Control Techniques 
Guidelines for Metal Furniture Coatings 
and Miscellaneous Metal Parts Coatings 
[EPA-R03-OAR-2015-0404; FRL-9934-92-Region 

3] received September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
2999. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
direct final rule — Approval and 
Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Delaware; 2011 Base Year Inventories 
for the 2008 8-Hour Ozone National 
Ambient Air Quality Standard for New Castle 
and Sussex Counties [EPA-R03-OAR-2015-
0455; FRL-9934-81-Region 3] received September 
30, 2015, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-121, 
Sec. 251; to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. 

3000. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Pennsylvania; Redesignation Request 
and Associated Maintenance Plan for the 
Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley Nonattainment 
Area for the 1997 Annual and 2006 24-Hour 
Fine Particulate Matter Standard [EPA-R03-
OAR-2015-0029; FRL-9934-82-Region 3] received 
September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
3001. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule — Approval and Promulgation 
of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; South Dakota; Revisions to South Dakota 
Administrative Code [EPA-R08-OAR-
2014-0916; FRL-9934-83-Region 8] received September 
30, 2015, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-121, 
Sec. 251; to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. 

3002. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
direct final rule — Approval and 
Promulgation of Implementation Plans; 
State of Missouri, Limited Maintenance 
Plan for the St. Louis Nonclassifiable Maintenance 
Area for the 8-Hour Carbon Monoxide 
National Ambient Air Quality Standard 
[EPA-R07-OAR-2015-0513; FRL-9934-98-Re


gion 7] received September 30, 2015, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 
104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 

3003. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
direct final rule — Approval and 
Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation 
Plans; Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; 
Approval of the Base Year Emissions Inventory 
for the Liberty-Clairton Nonattainment 
Area for the 2006 24-Hour Fine Particulate 
Matter Standard and Approval of Transportation 
Conformity Insignificance Findings 
for the 1997 Annual and 2006 24-Hour Fine 
Particulate Matter Standards for the Liberty-
Clairton Nonattainment Area [EPA-
R03-OAR-2015-0470; FRL-9934-91-Region 3] received 
September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
3004. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Export Administration, Bureau of Industry 
and Security, Department of Commerce, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule — 
Enhancing Support for the Cuban People 
[Docket No.: 150825774-5774-01] (RIN: 0694-
AG67) received September 30, 2015, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 
104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs. 

3005. A letter from the Assistant Secretary, 
Legislative Affairs, Department of State, 
transmitting a report to Congress on United 
States Participation in the United Nations 
in 2014, pursuant to Sec. 4(a) of Pub. L. 79-
264; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 

3006. A letter from the Assistant Secretary, 
Legislative Affairs, Department of State, 
transmitting a determination for the use of 
funds to provide non-lethal assistance to the 
Syrian Opposition, pursuant to Sec. 451 of 
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as 
amended; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 


3007. A letter from the Executive Analyst, 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting a report pursuant to the Federal 
Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, Pub. L. 
105-277, 5 U.S.C. 3345-3349d; to the Committee 
on Oversight and Government Reform. 

3008. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Government Ethics, transmitting the Office’s 
final rule — Organization and Functions; 
Implementation of Statutory Gift Acceptance 
Authority; Freedom of Information 
Act (RIN: 3209-AA40, RIN: 3209-AA41, RIN: 
3209-AA39) received September 30, 2015, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public 
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform. 

3009. A letter from the Acting Director, Office 
of Personnel Management, transmitting 
the Office’s final rule — Managing Senior 
Executive Performance (RIN: 3206-AM48) received 
September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform. 
3010. A letter from the Division Chief, Bureau 
of Land Management, Department of 
the Interior, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule — Minerals Management: Adjustment 
of Cost Recovery Fees [L13100000 
PP0000 LLWO310000] (RIN: 1004-AE44) received 
September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Natural 
Resources. 
3011. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, transmitting 
the Administration’s temporary rule 

— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone 
Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pollock in the 
Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands [Docket No.: 
141021887-5172-02] (RIN: 0648-XE143) received 
September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-121, 
Sec. 251; to the Committee on Natural Resources. 


3012. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 
Department of the Interior, transmitting 
the Department’s final rule — Kentucky 
Regulatory Program [SATS No.: KY-253-
FOR; Docket ID: OSM-2009-0014; S1D1S 
SS08011000 SX064A000 156S180110; S2D2S 
SS08011000 SX064A000 15X501520] received 
September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-121, 
Sec. 251; to the Committee on Natural Resources. 


3013. A letter from the Deputy Director, Office 
of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 
Department of the Interior, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule — 
Pennsylvania Regulatory Program [SATS 
No.: PA-154-FOR; Docket ID: OSM-2010-0002; 
S1D1S SS08011000 SX064A000 156S180110 S2D2S 
SS08011000 SX064A000 15XS501520] received 
September 30, 2015, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 104-121, 
Sec. 251; to the Committee on Natural Resources. 


3014. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Administration’s 
final rule — National Pollutant 
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) 
Electronic Reporting Rule [EPA-HQ-OECA-
2009-0274; FRL-9930-70-OECA] (RIN: 2020-
AA47) received September 30, 2015, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 
104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure. 

3015. A letter from the Federal Register Liaison 
Officer, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and 
Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule — 
Return of Wine to Bonded Premises [Docket 
No.: TTB-2015-0013; T.D. TTB-130] (RIN: 1513-
AB92) received September 30, 2015, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Added by Public Law 
104-121, Sec. 251; to the Committee on Ways 
and Means. 

f 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON 
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of 
committees were delivered to the Clerk 
for printing and reference to the proper 
calendar, as follows: 

Mr. UPTON: Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. Supplemental report on H.R. 702. 
A bill to adapt to changing crude oil market 
conditions (Rept. 114–267, Pt. 2). 

Mr. BISHOP of Utah: Committee on Natural 
Resources. H.R. 538. A bill to facilitate 
the development of energy on Indian lands 
by reducing Federal regulations that impede 
tribal development of Indian lands, and for 
other purposes (Rept. 114–276). Referred to 
the Committee of the Whole House on the 
state of the Union. 

Mr. BISHOP of Utah: Committee on Natural 
Resources. H.R. 1644. A bill to amend 
the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation 
Act of 1977 to ensure transparency in the development 
of environmental regulations, and 
for other purposes; with an amendment 
(Rept. 114–277). Referred to the Committee of 
the Whole House on the state of the Union. 

Mr. HENSARLING: Committee on Financial 
Services. H.R. 3192. A bill to provide for 
a temporary safe harbor from the enforcement 
of integrated disclosure requirements 
for mortgage loan transactions under the 
Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 
1974 and the Truth in Lending Act, and for 
other purposes (Rept. 114–278). Referred to 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6787 

the Committee of the Whole House on the 
state of the Union. 

f 

PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XII, public 

bills and resolutions of the following 

titles were introduced and severally re


ferred, as follows: 
By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Ms. 
DEGETTE, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. RIBBLE, 
Mr. PALLONE, Mr. ROE of Tennessee, 
Ms. DELBENE, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Ms. 
PINGREE, Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM 
of New Mexico, Mr. POLIS, Mr. 
GRIFFITH, Mr. PETERS, Mr. COLLINS of 
New York, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. ENGEL, 
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. ESHOO, 
Mr. BERA, Mr. FORBES, Mr. OLSON, 
Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. YOUNG of Indiana, 
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Ms. MATSUI, 
Mr. ALLEN, and Mr. HUFFMAN): 

H.R. 3660. A bill to amend the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 respecting the scoring 
of preventive health savings; to the Committee 
on the Budget. 
By Mr. GUINTA: 

H.R. 3661. A bill to terminate the independent 
third-party program for sectors of 
the Northeast Multispecies Fishery unless 
the program is fully funded by the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
and for other purposes; to the Committee on 
Natural Resources. 
By Mr. RUSSELL (for himself, Mr. 
BRAT, Mr. WESTERMAN, Mrs. BLACK, 
Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. 
MEEHAN, Mr. YOHO, Mr. GRAVES of 
Louisiana, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, 
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mr. HARDY, 
Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia, Mr. 
BURGESS, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. 
DESJARLAIS, Mr. DESANTIS, Mr. 
GIBBS, Ms. JENKINS of Kansas, Mr. 
MESSER, and Mr. LOUDERMILK): 

H.R. 3662. A bill to enhance congressional 
oversight over the administration of sanctions 
against certain Iranian terrorism financiers, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to 
the Committee on Financial Services, for a 
period to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. FLORES (for himself and Mr. 
GENE GREEN of Texas): 

H.R. 3663. A bill to prevent certain discriminatory 
taxation of natural gas pipeline 
property; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Ms. ESHOO: 

H.R. 3664. A bill to provide for the identification 
and documentation of best practices 
for cyber hygiene by the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology. 
By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, 
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. RANGEL, Mr. 
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Ms. 
CLARKE of New York, Mr. 
FARENTHOLD, Mr. CAPUANO, and Mr. 
SIRES): 

H.R. 3665. A bill to authorize appropriations 
for the university transportation centers 
program for fiscal years 2016 through 
2021, and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology, 
and in addition to the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure, for a period to 
be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself, 
Mrs. CAPPS, Mr. RANGEL, Ms. NORTON, 
and Mr. CROWLEY): 

H.R. 3666. A bill to coordinate and advance 
fibrosis research activities at the National 
Institutes of Health, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce. 
By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN: 

H.R. 3667. A bill to promote transparency, 
accountability, and reform within the United 
Nations system, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 
By Mr. COOK (for himself and Mr. 
KNIGHT): 

H.R. 3668. A bill to codify in law and expand 
certain off-highway vehicle recreation 
areas in the State of California, to designate 
as wilderness certain public lands in the 
State of California administered by the Bureau 
of Land Management, to expand the 
Death Valley National Park Wilderness and 
the San Gorgonio Wilderness in San 
Bernardino National Forest, to ensure the 
conservation and necessary management of 
wildlife in these wilderness areas, to establish 
the Mojave Trails Special Management 
Area in the State, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Natural Resources. 
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr. 
HUFFMAN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. SHERMAN, 
Mr. THOMPSON of California, Ms. 
LOFGREN, Mr. FARR, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. 
MEEKS, and Ms. NORTON): 

H.R. 3669. A bill to amend title 18, United 
States Code, to provide a criminal penalty 
for operating drones in certain locations, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 
By Mr. CICILLINE: 

H.R. 3670. A bill to amend chapter 83 of 
title 41, United States Code (popularly referred 
to as the Buy American Act) and certain 
other laws with respect to certain waivers 
under those laws, to provide greater 
transparency regarding exceptions to domestic 
sourcing requirements, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, and in addition to the 
Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, 
and Financial Services, for a period 
to be subsequently determined by the 
Speaker, in each case for consideration of 
such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction 
of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. BARR: 

H.R. 3671. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to allow a 3-year recovery 
period for all race horses; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. BARR: 

H.R. 3672. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to reduce the holding period 
used to determine whether horses are 
section 1231 assets to 12 months; to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. BENISHEK: 

H.R. 3673. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to require the Secretary of 
the Treasury to mail paper forms to any individual 
who filed a paper return for the preceding 
taxable year; to the Committee on 
Ways and Means. 
By Mr. CONYERS (for himself, Mr. 
FITZPATRICK, Ms. WILSON of Florida, 
Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. BURGESS, Mr. WESTMORELAND, 
Mr. MEEKS, Mrs. LAWRENCE, 
and Mr. VEASEY): 

H.R. 3674. A bill to establish a commission 
to examine the processes used by the Bureau 
of Labor Statistics to provide unemployment 
rates and to make recommendations to Congress 
for any changes in methodology or improvements 
to such processes; to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. DESAULNIER (for himself, Mr. 
TAKANO, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. JUDY CHU 
of California, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and 
Ms. SLAUGHTER): 

H.R. 3675. A bill to amend the Higher Education 
Act of 1965 to ensure that student 
loans are available at interest rates that do 
not exceed the interest rates at which the 
Federal Government provides loans to banks 
through the discount window operated by 
the Federal Reserve System, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and 
Means, and in addition to the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce, for a period to 
be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
in each case for consideration of such provisions 
as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
committee concerned. 

By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Ms. ESTY, 

Ms. EDWARDS, and Mr. SEAN PATRICK 

MALONEY of New York): 

H.R. 3676. A bill to authorize the Administrator 
of the Substance Abuse and Mental 
Health Services Administration, acting 
through the Director of the Center for Substance 
Abuse Treatment, to award grants to 
States to expand access to clinically appropriate 
services for opioid abuse, dependence, 
or addiction; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Ms. 
EDWARDS, Ms. ESTY, and Mr. SEAN 
PATRICK MALONEY of New York): 

H.R. 3677. A bill to reduce opioid misuse 
and abuse; to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce. 
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for 
himself, Mrs. BLACK, Mr. NEAL, Mr. 
HOLDING, Mr. RANGEL, Ms. JENKINS of 
Kansas, Mr. TIBERI, Mr. MARCHANT, 
and Mr. NUNES): 

H.R. 3678. A bill to clarify the orphan drug 
exception to the annual fee on branded prescription 
pharmaceutical manufacturers and 
importers, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition 
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
for a period to be subsequently determined 
by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
of such provisions as fall within 
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned. 
By Mr. MURPHY of Florida (for himself, 
Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. 
DELANEY, Mr. POE of Texas, Ms. 
EDWARDS, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. 
KUSTER, Mr. SWALWELL of California, 
Mr. PITTENGER, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. 
JACKSON LEE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. 
NORTON, and Ms. MOORE): 

H.R. 3679. A bill to provide that the Social 
Security Administration pay fees associated 
with obtaining birth certificate or State 
identification card for purposes of obtaining 
a replacement social security card for certain 
victims of domestic violence, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways 
and Means. 
By Mr. SARBANES: 

H.R. 3680. A bill to provide for the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services to 
carry out a grant program for co-prescribing 
opioid overdose reversal drugs; to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 
By Mr. THORNBERRY: 

H. Con. Res. 81. Concurrent resolution providing 
for corrections to the enrollment of 
the bill H.R. 1735; considered and agreed to. 
By Mr. BARTON: 

H. Con. Res. 82. Concurrent resolution recognizing 
the 50th Anniversary of the White 
House Fellows Program; to the Committee 
on Oversight and Government Reform. 
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD (for himself, 
Ms. ADAMS, Ms. BASS, Mrs. BEATTY, 
Mr. BECERRA, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, 
Ms. BROWN of Florida, Ms. CLARKE of 
New York, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, 
Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. CONYERS, Mr. CUMMINGS, 
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, 
Ms. EDWARDS, Mr. ELLISON, Ms. 
FUDGE, Mr. AL GREEN of Texas, Ms. 
NORTON, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. 
JEFFRIES, Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON 
of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, 
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. LEE, Mr. 


H6788 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

LEWIS, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, 
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New 
York, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. MOORE, 
Mr. PAYNE, Mr. FATTAH, Mr. MEEKS, 
Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. PELOSI, Mr. RANGEL, 
Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, 
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, 
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. MAXINE 
WATERS of California, Mrs. WATSON 
COLEMAN, Mr. WELCH, Ms. WILSON of 
Florida, Mr. VEASEY, Ms. DELAURO, 
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, 
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. RUSH, and 
Mr. HOYER): 

H. Con. Res. 83. Concurrent resolution authorizing 
the use of Emancipation Hall in 
the Capitol Visitor Center for a ceremony to 
commemorate the 150th anniversary of the 
ratification of the 13th Amendment; to the 
Committee on House Administration. 
By Mr. AL GREEN of Texas (for himself, 
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. 
NORTON, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. WILSON 
of Florida, Mr. MEEKS, and Mr. 
HASTINGS): 

H. Con. Res. 84. Concurrent resolution recognizing 
former United States Federal Judge 
Frank Minis Johnson, Jr. for his role in the 
civil rights movement; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. 
By Mr. RUSSELL (for himself, Mr. 
WESTERMAN, Mr. FRANKS of Arizona, 
Mrs. BLACK, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. 
ROUZER, Mr. MEEHAN, Mr. YOHO, Mr. 
GRAVES of Louisiana, Mrs. BROOKS of 
Indiana, Mr. HARDY, Mr. BURGESS, 
Mr. DESJARLAIS, and Mr. 
LOUDERMILK): 

H. Res. 454. A resolution expressing the 
sense of the House of Representatives relating 
to the exercise of presidential waiver authority 
of certain sanctions imposed against 
Iran under United States law; to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs. 
By Mr. CURBELO of Florida (for himself, 
Ms. BROWN of Florida, Ms. WILSON 
of Florida, and Ms. FRANKEL of 
Florida): 

H. Res. 455. A resolution expressing support 
for designation of the inaugural ‘‘Cruise 
Travel Professional Month’’ in October; to 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce. 
By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for herself, 
Mr. JOYCE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. 
CICILLINE, Mr. HONDA, and Mr. 
DELANEY): 

H. Res. 456. A resolution expressing support 
for designation of October 2015 as ‘‘National 
Principals Month’’; to the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce. 
By Mr. JOLLY: 

H. Res. 457. A resolution amending the 
Rules of the House of Representatives to require 
that the House be in session at least 40 
hours each week other than a week that is 
designated as a district work period; to the 
Committee on Rules. 
By Mrs. NOEM (for herself, Ms. MATSUI, 
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Ms. 
FRANKEL of Florida, Ms. SLAUGHTER, 
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. 
MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New 
Mexico, Ms. JENKINS of Kansas, Ms. 
SPEIER, Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California, 
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. JUDY 
CHU of California, Ms. LORETTA SANCHEZ 
of California, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, 
Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. CASTOR 
of Florida, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. 
BONAMICI, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mrs. DAVIS 
of California, Ms. EDDIE BERNICE 
JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. TITUS, Mrs. 
TORRES, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Miss RICE 
of New York, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. 
ADAMS, Mrs. LUMMIS, Ms. MOORE, Ms. 
ESHOO, Mrs. CAPPS, Ms. HAHN, Ms. 
DELAURO, Ms. MENG, Ms. SEWELL of 
Alabama, Mrs. ELLMERS of North 

Carolina, Mrs. BUSTOS, Ms. 
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. MCCOLLUM, 
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. BROWNLEY 
of California, Ms. NORTON, Ms. 
EDWARDS, Ms. BORDALLO, Ms. 
STEFANIK, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. DEGETTE, 
Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. TSONGAS, Ms. 
VELA´ ZQUEZ, Ms. KUSTER, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, 
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. 
PINGREE, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms. 
BROWN of Florida, Ms. DELBENE, Ms. 
ESTY, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of 
New York, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, 
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms. GRAHAM, 
Ms. LEE, Ms. LINDA T. SA´ NCHEZ of 
California, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. 
DUCKWORTH, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. MAXINE 
WATERS of California, Ms. LOFGREN, 
Mrs. COMSTOCK, Ms. GABBARD, Mrs. 
BLACK, Ms. MCSALLY, Ms. FOXX, Mrs. 
ROBY, Mrs. WAGNER, Ms. ROS-
LEHTINEN, and Ms. PLASKETT): 

H. Res. 458. A resolution celebrating 25 
years of success from the Office of Research 
on Women’s Health at the National Institutes 
of Health; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
By Mr. ROHRABACHER (for himself, 
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. FRANKS 
of Arizona, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, 
Mr. PITTS, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. 
WEBER of Texas, Mr. KING of Iowa, 
and Mr. BARLETTA): 

H. Res. 459. A resolution expressing the 
sense of the House of Representatives that 
Christians in the Middle East are victims of 
genocide; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
and in addition to the Committee on 
the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
f 

CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY 
STATEMENT 

Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of 
the Rules of the House of Representatives, 
the following statements are submitted 
regarding the specific powers 
granted to Congress in the Constitution 
to enact the accompanying bill or 
joint resolution. 

By Mr. BURGESS: 
H.R. 3660. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis


lation pursuant to the following: 

The attached bill is constitutional under 
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: ‘‘The Congress 
shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes, 
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the 
Debts and provide for the common Defense 
and general Welfare of the United States; but 
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform 
throughout the United States.’’ 

By Mr. GUINTA: 
H.R. 3661. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis


lation pursuant to the following: 
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Constitution 
of the United States. 

By Mr. RUSSELL: 
H.R. 3662. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis


lation pursuant to the following: 
Article 1, Section 8, Clauses 3 and 18 of the 

U.S. Constitution. 
By Mr. FLORES: 
H.R. 3663. 
Congress has the power to enact this legis


lation pursuant to the following: 
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Constitution 
of the United States. 
By Ms. ESHOO: 
H.R. 3664. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (To regulate 
Commerce with foreign Nations, and among 
the several States, and with the Indian 
Tribes) 

Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (To make all 
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for 
carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, 
and all other Powers vested by this Constitution 
in the Government of the United 
States, or in any Department or Officer 
thereof) 

By Mr. CURBELO of Florida: 

H.R. 3665. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article 1, Section 8 of the United States 
Constitution 

By Mr. KING of New York: 

H.R. 3666. 

In Congress has the power to enact this 
legislation pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 

By Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN: 

H.R. 3667. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution 

By Mr. COOK: 

H.R. 3668. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 

By Mr. GARAMENDI: 

H.R. 3669. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

section 8 of article I of the Constitution 

By Mr. CICILLINE: 

H.R. 3670. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article 1, Section 8 

By Mr. BARR: 

H.R. 3671. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 of the United States 
Constitution. 

By Mr. BARR: 

H.R. 3672. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 of the United States 
Constitution. 

By Mr. BENISHEK: 

H.R. 3673. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Clause 1, Section 8 of Article 1 of the 
United States Constitution which reads: 
‘‘The Congress shall have Power to lay and 
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and Excises, 
to pay the Debts, and provide for the common 
Defense and General Welfare of the 
United States; but all Duties and Imposts 
and Excises shall be uniform throughout the 
United States.’’ 

By Mr. CONYERS: 

H.R. 3674. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Art. I, Sec. 8. 

By Mr. DESAULNIER: 

H.R. 3675. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article 1, Section 8. 

By Mr. FOSTER: 

H.R. 3676. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

This bill is enacted pursuant to the power 
granted to Congress under Article I, Section 
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Constitution. 


By Mr. FOSTER: 

H.R. 3677. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H6789 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

This bill is enacted pursuant to the power 
granted to Congress under Article I, Section 
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Constitution. 


By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania: 

H.R. 3678. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to 
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the 
United States Constitution. The Congress 
enacts this bill pursuant to Clause 1 of Section 
8 of Article I of the United States Constitution. 


By Mr. MURPHY of Florida: 

H.R. 3679. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article 1 section 8 Constitution of the 
United States, which states the Congress 
shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, 
imposts and excises, to pay the debts 
and provide for the common defense and general 
welfare of the United States. 

By Mr. SARBANES: 

H.R. 3680. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 of the US Constitution 

f 

ADDITIONAL SPONSORS 
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors 
were added to public bills and resolutions, 
as follows: 

H.R. 239: Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. MICHELLE 
LUJAN GRISHAM of New Mexico, Ms. 
DUCKWORTH, Mr. POLIS, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. 
RUSH, Ms. BROWN of Florida, Mr. GARAMENDI, 
Mr. CARNEY, and Ms. HAHN. 
H.R. 244: Mr. FORBES. 
H.R. 292: Mr. CULBERSON. 
H.R. 317: Mr. KILDEE. 
H.R. 381: Ms. BROWN of Florida. 
H.R. 546: Mr. KILDEE. 
H.R. 592: Mr. KILDEE. 
H.R. 602: Mr. ASHFORD. 
H.R. 664: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 829: Mr. MEEKS. 
H.R. 836: Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. 
H.R. 837: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. 
H.R. 879: Mr. GOODLATTE and Mr. 
FITZPATRICK. 
H.R. 969: Mr. BRAT. 
H.R. 973: Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. 
H.R. 1019: Mr. DESAULNIER. 
H.R. 1062: Mr. DUNCAN of South Carolina 
and Mr. WOMACK. 
H.R. 1122: Mr. LIPINSKI. 
H.R. 1124: Mr. SERRANO. 
H.R. 1130: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey and Ms. 
ADAMS. 
H.R. 1141: Mr. COFFMAN. 
H.R. 1174: Mr. COHEN, Mr. GUTIE´ RREZ, Mr. 
SAM JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. 
ROTHFUS, Mr. JORDAN, and Mr. GARRETT. 
H.R. 1192: Mr. RIGELL. 
H.R. 1220: Mr. YOUNG of Iowa, Mr. KEATING, 
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, 
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, and Mrs. CAPPS. 
H.R. 1258: Mr. DENT, Ms. ESHOO, and Mr. 
BEN RAY LUJA´ N of New Mexico. 
H.R. 1283: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. 
H.R. 1288: Mr. POSEY, Mr. SIRES, and Mr. 
RIGELL. 
H.R. 1427: Mrs. RADEWAGEN and Mr. COFFMAN. 
H.R. 1441: Mrs. DINGELL and Ms. NORTON. 
H.R. 1459: Mr. KILDEE. 
H.R. 1475: Mr. JORDAN, Mr. HUELSKAMP, and 
Ms. DUCKWORTH. 
H.R. 1532: Mr. GARRETT. 
H.R. 1538: Mr. COFFMAN, Mr. SANFORD, Mr. 
MULVANEY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. DEFAZIO, 
and Mr. DEUTCH. 
H.R. 1566: Mr. FORBES. 
H.R. 1567: Mr. WALZ. 
H.R. 1594: Mr. POMPEO. 
H.R. 1603: Mr. CRAMER. 
H.R. 1660: Mr. RIGELL. 
H.R. 1661: Mr. RIGELL. 
H.R. 1671: Mr. LONG. 
H.R. 1686: Mr. KILDEE. 
H.R. 1688: Mrs. RADEWAGEN and Mr. COFFMAN. 
H.R. 1706: Mrs. BEATTY. 
H.R. 1716: Mr. SMITH of Texas. 
H.R. 1736: Mr. YODER. 
H.R. 1737: Mr. GRAYSON, Mr. GARRETT, Mr. 
ROUZER, Mr. RIGELL, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, 
Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. ABRAHAM, and Mr. SIRES. 
H.R. 1769: Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. 
H.R. 1779: Mr. ELLISON. 
H.R. 1814: Mr. KILDEE, Ms. BASS, Mr. CUMMINGS, 
and Mr. PIERLUISI. 
H.R. 1942: Mr. VARGAS and Mr. AGUILAR. 
H.R. 1945: Ms. BROWNLEY of California and 
Ms. WILSON of Florida. 
H.R. 1986: Mr. NEWHOUSE. 
H.R. 2010: Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee, Mrs. 
LUMMIS, Mr. STEWART, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. 
WEBER of Texas, Mr. BABIN, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. 
BARR, and Mr. LAMALFA. 
H.R. 2043: Mr. LONG. 
H.R. 2050: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois 
and Mr. FITZPATRICK. 
H.R. 2076: Mr. RIBBLE. 
H.R. 2090: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. 
H.R. 2189: Mr. POE of Texas and Mr. PASCRELL. 
H.R. 2287: Mr. RIGELL and Mr. JOHNSON of 
Ohio. 
H.R. 2292: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Ms. JUDY 
CHU of California. 
H.R. 2293: Mr. DELANEY, Mr. SEAN PATRICK 
MALONEY of New York, and Ms. ESHOO. 
H.R. 2342: Mr. JOYCE, Mr. MEEHAN, Mr. 
CICILLINE, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, and Mrs. 
KIRKPATRICK. 
H.R. 2461: Mr. CARSON of Indiana. 
H.R. 2633: Mr. CARTWRIGHT. 
H.R. 2643: Mrs. ROBY. 
H.R. 2646: Mr. TOM PRICE of Georgia. 
H.R. 2657: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. 
H.R. 2671: Mr. HONDA. 
H.R. 2672: Mr. HONDA. 
H.R. 2673: Mr. HONDA. 
H.R. 2674: Mr. HONDA. 
H.R. 2697: Mr. SWALWELL of California. 
H.R. 2698: Ms. JENKINS of Kansas. 
H.R. 2710: Mrs. BLACK. 
H.R. 2717: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. GRAYSON, and 
Ms. BONAMICI. 
H.R. 2737: Mr. TED LIEU of California and 
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. 
H.R. 2775: Mr. POCAN. 
H.R. 2799: Mr. LEWIS. 
H.R. 2805: Mr. PETERS. 
H.R. 2858: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of 
New York, Ms. ESHOO, and Ms. TSONGAS. 
H.R. 2869: Mr. CRAWFORD. 
H.R. 2889: Mr. PASCRELL. 
H.R. 2904: Mr. BARLETTA. 
H.R. 2944: Mr. HANNA, Mr. NADLER, Mr. 
ABRAHAM, and Mr. POLIS. 
H.R. 3011: Mr. GIBBS. 
H.R. 3029: Mr. DEFAZIO. 
H.R. 3033: Mr. TAKANO and Mrs. BEATTY. 
H.R. 3048: Mr. SMITH of Texas. 
H.R. 3084: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina 
and Mr. BLUMENAUER. 
H.R. 3095: Mr. YODER. 
H.R. 3099: Mr. POCAN, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. 
KATKO, and Mr. POMPEO. 
H.R. 3102: Mr. MCCAUL. 
H.R. 3119: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut and 
Mr. FITZPATRICK. 
H.R. 3130: Mr. DONOVAN. 
H.R. 3144: Mr. MCCAUL and Mr. THOMPSON 
of Mississippi. 
H.R. 3151: Mr. BISHOP of Michigan. 
H.R. 3173: Mr. NOLAN. 
H.R. 3229: Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN, Mr. JOLLY, 
Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. KATKO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, 
and Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee. 
H.R. 3310: Mr. ROUZER and Mr. COLLINS of 
New York. 
H.R. 3314: Mr. ROUZER, Mr. FRANKS of Arizona, 
Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. DUNCAN of South 
Carolina, Mr. PALAZZO, and Mr. NUGENT. 
H.R. 3326: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri and Mr. 
POE of Texas. 
H.R. 3338: Mr. PETERS and Ms. DUCKWORTH. 
H.R. 3381: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. BROWN 
of Florida, Mr. HIGGINS, and Mrs. BEATTY. 
H.R. 3412: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. LEE, and 
Mr. DESAULNIER. 
H.R. 3457: Mr. DOLD. 
H.R. 3458: Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 3459: Mr. HILL, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, 
Ms. JENKINS of Kansas, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. 
GOODLATTE, Mr. JOLLY, Mr. ROSS, Mrs. 
WALORSKI, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. MILLER of 
Florida, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr. ROHRABACHER, 
Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. SMITH of Texas, Mrs. 
COMSTOCK, and Mr. BUCK. 
H.R. 3463: Mr. GOODLATTE and Mr. ROE of 
Tennessee. 
H.R. 3516: Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. WESTMORELAND, 
Mr. JODY B. HICE of Georgia, Mr. HARRIS, 
Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. MOONEY 
of West Virginia, and Mr. CARTER of 
Texas. 
H.R. 3532: Mr. KIND. 
H.R. 3542: Mr. HONDA. 
H.R. 3543: Mr. POLIS. 
H.R. 3573: Mr. BYRNE. 
H.R. 3618: Mrs. BLACK. 
H.R. 3626: Mr. FARENTHOLD. 
H.R. 3628: Mr. MACARTHUR. 
H.R. 3632: Mr. GRIJALVA and Ms. LEE. 
H.R. 3640: Ms. JENKINS of Kansas, Mr. RANGEL, 
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, and Ms. 
BROWN of Florida. 
H.R. 3643: Mr. KIND and Mr. WILLIAMS. 
H.R. 3646: Mr. VELA. 
H.R. 3651: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Ms. 
NORTON, Mrs. MIMI WALTERS of California, 
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. RIBBLE, Ms. BROWN of Florida, 
Mr. YOUNG of Alaska, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. 
FARENTHOLD, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr. 
WOODALL, Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of 
Texas, Mr. SANFORD, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, 
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. TITUS, 
Mrs. MILLER of Michigan, Ms. FRANKEL of 
Florida, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. DUNCAN of Tennessee, 
Mr. BARLETTA, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. 
ROKITA, Mr. KATKO, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. 
CRAWFORD, Mr. HUIZENGA of Michigan, Mr. 
RUSH, Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. COSTA, Mr. BOST, 
Mr. ASHFORD, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. BRADY of 
Pennsylvania, Mr. CLAY, Mr. SCHRADER, Mrs. 
WAGNER, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. 
HARPER, Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr. SIMPSON, 
Mr. POCAN, Mr. KINZINGER of Illinois, 
Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. QUIGLEY, 
Mr. YODER, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. KELLY of 
Pennsylvania, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. 
HULTGREN, Mr. FLORES, Mrs. NOEM, Mr. 
HUELSKAMP, Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. DOLD, Mr. 
BENISHEK, Mr. PETERS, Mr. UPTON, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, 
Mr. LONG, Mr. KLINE, Mrs. COMSTOCK, 
Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. EMMER of Minnesota, 
Mr. ZINKE, Mr. HILL, Mr. BYRNE, Ms. 
SINEMA, Mr. PEARCE, Mr. POMPEO, and Mr. 
LOBIONDO. 
H.J. Res. 19: Mr. SANFORD. 
H.J. Res. 59: Mr. LATTA, Mr. MOONEY of 
West Virginia, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. 
ROGERS of Kentucky, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. TIPTON, 
Mr. JORDAN, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, 
and Mrs. WALORSKI. 
H. Con. Res. 77: Mr. LOWENTHAL. 
H. Res. 28: Ms. BONAMICI. 
H. Res. 54: Ms. BONAMICI. 
H. Res. 112: Mr. CRENSHAW. 
H. Res. 210: Mr. QUIGLEY. 
H. Res. 214: Mr. SERRANO, Ms. LOFGREN, 
and Mrs. DINGELL. 
H. Res. 220: Mr. RUSSELL. 
H. Res. 293: Mr. HIGGINS. 
H. Res. 346: Mr. WILLIAMS. 
H. Res. 354: Mr. HULTGREN and Mr. LEVIN. 

H6790 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE October 1, 2015 

H. Res. 428: Mr. POLIS. 
H. Res. 453: Ms. FUDGE, Ms. BASS, Mr. 
JEFFRIES, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, 
Ms. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. 
PAYNE, Mr. CONYERS, Ms. LEE, Mr. SCOTT of 
Virginia, Mr. FATTAH, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. 
CLEAVER, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. AL 
GREEN of Texas, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. 
BUTTERFIELD, Ms. Adams, Ms. EDWARDS, Mr. 
CARSON of Indiana, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. SEWELL 
of Alabama, and Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. 
PETITIONS, ETC. 

Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions 
and papers were laid on the Clerk’s 
desk and referred as follows: 

29. The SPEAKER presented a petition of 
Board of Chosen Freeholders, Morris County, 
New Jersey, relative to Resolution No. 59, 
strongly urging their Congressional delegation 
to reject the terms of the Iran Nuclear 
Agreement, and to vote to override the anticipated 
veto of President Obama; to the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs. 
30. Also, a petition of Village Council of 
Bal Harbour Village, Florida, relative to 
Resolution No. 2015-978, encouraging the 
Florida Delegation to the 114th Congress of 
the United States of America not to approve 
the proposed agreement between the United 
States and Iran regarding the operation of 
Iranian nuclear facilities; to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs. 

31. Also, a petition of Council of the County 
of Maui, Hawaii, relative to Resolution 
No. 15-109, urging Congress to pass the Industrial 
Hemp Farming Act of 2015; jointly to 
the Committees on the Judiciary and Energy 
and Commerce. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 114th 
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION 

Vol. 161 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2015 No. 143 

The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was 
called to order by the President pro 
tempore (Mr. HATCH). 

f 

PRAYER 
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, offered 
the following prayer: 
Let us pray. 
Almighty God, as bombs fall in Syria 
and refugees seek safety, may all who 
are oppressed look to You. In spite of 
our world’s turbulence, we continue to 
proclaim Your greatness for Your sovereignty 
will prevail. Free us from fear. 
Answer when we call. Shelter us from 
disappointment. 
Bless our Senators. Lord, fill them 
with the Spirit of Your wisdom, making 
them equal to challenges of this 
difficult season of our national and 
world history. Open their minds to 
comprehend Your wisdom, their ears to 
hear Your guidance, and their hearts to 
obey Your biddings. 
Lift the light of Your countenance 
upon all who seek You and give them 

Your peace. 
We pray in Your mighty Name. 
Amen. 
f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The President pro tempore led the 
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY 
LEADER 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
HELLER). The majority leader is recognized. 


f 

FOREIGN POLICY AND SUP


PORTING OUR TROOPS AND VET


ERANS 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, 
with each passing day, the American 

Senate 

people are reminded of the peril attached 
to the Obama administration’s 
inflexible determination to conduct 
foreign policy based on campaign 
promises made in 2008. These goals— 
unilaterally withdrawing from Iraq and 
Afghanistan based on fixed deadlines, 
ending the war on terror and some of 
the critical tools used to pursue Al 
Qaeda, closing the secure detention facility 
at Guantanamo Bay, withdrawing 
from our deployed forward 
presence, slashing investment in our 
conventional armed services, and pursuing 
nuclear agreements with Russia 
and Iran at any cost—have remained 
constant, although the world has 
changed right in front of our Commander 
in Chief. 

Yesterday we saw the Obama administration 
threaten to veto the national 
Defense authorization bill, which recently 
passed the Senate by a large bipartisan 
majority of 71 to 25. It passed 
the House by a big bipartisan margin 
as well. 

This is the legislation that sets out 
military policy and authorizes funds 
for our military each year. It is always 
one of the most important bills we consider 
every year, but it is especially 
important right now. 

The number of threats currently facing 
us is truly staggering. The last 
month and week have brought glaring 
reminders. We are now seeing Russian 
forces deploy to Syria to preserve the 
Assad regime. Although Moscow may 
try to call this some kind of counter-
terrorism campaign, let’s be perfectly 
clear: Russia’s offensive is designed to 
protect Assad’s Alawite stronghold and 
Russian military installations, while 
driving out the moderate opposition 
and compelling coordination of Syrian 
airspace with the coalition. Russia 
aims to forcefully insert itself into the 
middle of coalition operations to gain 
insights into the plans of the United 
States and, of course, to secure a seat 
at the table. Meanwhile, our moderate 
Syrian allies stand appalled that the 

United States has ceded its leadership 
position in the broader Middle East. 

Of all the promises made by this administration, 
withdrawing from Afghanistan 
by a date certain seems to 
ignore the attack upon Kunduz by the 
Taliban and the efforts of President 
Ghani to secure the gains of the coalition 
and his country’s future. How can 
the administration be pondering a 
withdrawal of the force when the 
Taliban’s offensive persists and the 
campaign against Al Qaeda has not yet 
achieved its defeat? 

So many threats face us—from Russia, 
Iran, Syria, ISIL, and even China— 
as do so many different means of attack: 
conventional, cyber, or terror. 
And now the Obama administration is 
talking about vetoing America’s national 
defense bill. They are talking 
about vetoing the national defense bill 
in the wake of all of this. 

I will have more to say about the national 
defense bill in the coming days. 
But this is about more than one bill; it 
is the latest in an increasingly worrying 
pattern. Just last week, Democrats 
voted again to block funding for 
our military. Democrats had voted for 
that military funding bill in committee. 
They issued press releases 
praising the bill they had supported in 
the Appropriations Committee, but 
then they blocked the Senate from 
even debating it. Now they appear 
ready to give the same treatment to 
our veterans. Democrats voted for the 
veterans funding bill in committee. 
They issued press releases praising the 
bill. But now they seem prepared to 
block the Senate from even debating 
this bill too. It is all part of some half-
baked Democratic scheme to get more 
money for the IRS and for Washington 
bureaucracies. It makes no sense, it is 
extreme, and it needs to stop. 

The veterans funding bill before us 
would do right by the men and women 
who have given everything to protect 
us and who have suffered so much 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S7055 


S7056 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

under the failings of this administration. 
This is the bill that supports veterans 
by funding the health care and 
the benefits they rely on. This is the 
bill. This is the bill that supports military 
families by funding the housing, 
schools, and health facilities that serve 
them. 

The veterans legislation before us 
provides support for women’s health, 
for medical research, and for veterans 
suffering from traumatic brain injury. 
It provides funding for design work at 
a new VA medical center in Louisville, 
for educational facilities at Fort Knox, 
and for a special operations headquarters 
at Fort Campbell, all in my 
State. 

The bill contains important reforms 
aimed at supporting veterans in the 
wake of a true national disgrace—the 
VA scandal. The reforms funded in this 
bill will allow for greater national and 
regional progress in reducing VA claim 
backlogs, and they will deploy important 
protections for whistleblowers 
too. 

Look, we need to remember that we 
have an all-volunteer force in this 
country. The young men and women 
who sign up to defend our Nation don’t 
ask for a lot, but our Nation certainly 
asks a lot of them. These heroes 
shouldn’t have to worry that their benefits 
or health care or the housing and 
support their families need might not 
be there. 

There is a long tradition in the Senate 
of bipartisan support for our 
troops, our veterans, and their families. 
We saw that bipartisan tradition 
on full display just a few months ago 
when Republicans and Democrats came 
together in the Appropriations Committee 
to pass bipartisan legislation to 
fund our troops and support our veterans. 


We ask a lot of the men and women 
who serve. They don’t need a bigger 
IRS or political games like the Democrats’ 
self-described filibuster summer; 
they need our care and our support. It 
is our turn to give back to them. Why 
don’t we get back to the bipartisan tradition 
of supporting these bills so we 
can do what we need to do for our veterans. 


f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY 
LEADER 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Democratic leader is recognized. 

f 

FOREIGN POLICY, BENGHAZI SELECT 
COMMITTEE, AND THE 
NEED FOR BIPARTISAN NEGOTIATIONS 


Mr. REID. Mr. President, it is hard 
for me, when I come here every day, to 
be patient and listen to my friend the 
Republican leader talk because he is 
talking about something that is not 
real. He is not talking about reality. 
He wants to get back to the bipartisan 
way we used to do things. I certainly 
agree with him, but having looked at 

some 600 filibusters during the last few 
years conducted by my Republican 
friends, I think that speaks volumes. 

To have the Republican leader come 
to the floor and criticize Obama about 
what is going on in the Middle East— 
that takes a lot of gall. We all know 
what happened in the Middle East a 
number of years ago that created all 
these problems. It was the worst foreign 
policy mistake in the history of 
our country—invading Iraq. For what? 
Look what we have now in Iraq. Look 
what we have in the entire Middle 
East. So it takes a lot of rearranging 
facts for the Republican leader to come 
to the floor every day—most days I 
just sit here, listen, and go on about 
my business, but I can’t do that. It is 
just unfair. Everyone knows we need to 
look no further than President Bush’s 
invasion of Iraq to find out what the 
real problem is in the Middle East. 

He talks about the Defense authorization 
bill. If it is such a great piece of 
legislative action, why does all of our 
military think it is a bad deal? This 
would be as if you decided one day you 
are going to make your house payment 
and your car payment with money that 
doesn’t exist. That is what they have 
done. That is what the Republicans 
have done. They have $39 billion in the 
Defense authorization bill that doesn’t 
exist. It is just on paper. It is a gimmick 
for short-term funding. And to 
have the audacity to come here and 
talk about—look at all the threats we 
are having with cyber security, cyber 
threats. We have a cyber bill we have 
tried to get on this floor. The Republicans 
blocked it when they were in the 
minority. Now when they are in the 
majority, they won’t do a bill, period. 

We have an order that is before this 
body now that allows us to go forward 
on cyber security. We already have a 
list of amendments to agree on. But 
the Republican leader won’t bring it to 
the floor. To have him come to this 
floor and complain of Obama not doing 
anything about cyber—I would suggest 
my friend, every morning when he gets 
up, walk into the bathroom, put a little 
water on his face, wake up, and 
look in the mirror. 

I will talk about this a little more in 
a minute, but I want to start what I 
have to say right now by reading a direct 
quote from the current House majority 
leader, and we are told he is 
going to be the next Speaker of the 
House of Representatives. Listen to 
this one, speaking about the Benghazi 
committee. This is what Congressman 
MCCARTHY told FOX News: 

Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, 
right? But we put together a 
Benghazi select committee, a select committee. 
What are her numbers today? Her 
numbers are dropping. 

I might add, the person doing the 
interviewing—good job. 

But there you have it. According to 
the odds-on favorite future Speaker of 
the House, the Benghazi select committee 
was put together to hurt Hillary 
Clinton politically, to make her 

poll numbers drop. We have been saying 
this all along, but we have now had 
a gaffe. But it wasn’t a slipup; he just 
told the truth. This is evidence of what 
we have been saying. The Benghazi 
committee is a political stunt meant 
to influence Presidential elections that 
will be coming up in about a year. It is 
no surprise that Congressman MCCARTHY’s 
own colleagues are now backpedaling 
on his comments as fast as 
they possibly can. Their elections will 
be in 1 week. They better take a look 
at whom they are going to put in as 
Speaker. The Republicans have taken a 
national tragedy—four Americans were 
killed—and turned it into the cheapest 
political farce imaginable. This is a 
shame. The very notion that an official 
House committee was used as a political 
tool is appalling. Even more disgraceful 
is the fact that they spent almost 
$5 million on this select committee—
dollars spent on this rightwing 
political hatchet job. 

That is not all. In addition to this select 
committee, they have had six 
other committees investigating this. 
There are untold millions of dollars 
spent on this. Whose money are they 
spending? They are spending taxpayer 
dollars. 

We hear my friend make references 
to how bad it is that we are concerned 
about nondefense stuff. Yes, we are. We 
are concerned about nondefense stuff. 
We think the nondefense part of this 
budget should also get some recognition. 
We are concerned about the FBI 
and the Federal court system. We are 
concerned about the Drug Enforcement 
Administration and all the immigration 
officials who need help. We are 
concerned about our forests that are 
burning down. We are concerned about 
the situation we have where we don’t 
have enough money to build our highways 
or to repair our highways. Yes, 
we are concerned about that and rightfully 
so. To have a secure nation is 
more than having a lot of bombs and 
bullets and airplanes and tanks and 
ships. It is also having a population 
that is educated. 

We sent a letter to Speaker BOEHNER 
asking that the Benghazi Select Committee 
be disbanded. Get rid of it. It is 
a disgrace. Do the right thing; get rid 
of this. 

Senate Republicans are stuck in a 
deep rut. They have dug this hole. 
They are in it, and they don’t know 
how to get out of it. The Republican 
leader continues bringing bills to the 
Senate floor that have no chance of 
passing. We have things out there we 
could be doing. 

Four months ago we said to the Republican 
leader: Why don’t we sit down 
and try to work something out on this 
budget for the long term. We have been 
ignored. They have ignored the need 
for a consensus budget framework and 
instead are trying to move a flawed appropriations 
bill based on the Republicans’ 
partisan budget. The Senate 
spoke and, of course, the bill didn’t advance. 



October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7057 

The Republican leader tried to move 
the same measure again last week, 
even though the Senate already rejected 
it. And to no one’s surprise, it 
failed. 

How about this one? This year—this 
year—we have already had eight votes 
on the health of American women— 
eight votes. Everyone knows how those 
votes are going to turn out, but you 
can’t satisfy this voracious appetite 
the Republicans have to bash women. 
Yet the Republican leader continues to 
schedule votes on legislation that can’t 
pass the Senate. 

I think C–SPAN will have to have a 
disclaimer each time that flips up 
there that says: This is not a rerun. 
This is the Republican Senate doing it 
again. We have already done it seven 
times. Once more won’t matter that 
much. 

Today the Republican leader wants 
to rerun the same show again, this 
time with another bill—military construction. 
This appropriations bill is 
still based on the Republican’s faulty 
budget. The senior Senator from Montana, 
the ranking member of that subcommittee, 
said yesterday this bill ‘‘is 
shackled to an unwise and unrealistic 
budget that locks in destructive sequestration 
cuts and vastly underfunds 
programs vital to this nation’s security 
and prosperity.’’ 

That is what Senator TESTER said 
yesterday. 

It has no chance of getting 60 votes— 
none. I know that, and my friend the 
Republican leader knows that. So why 
are we wasting time on another vote 
that is destined to fail? Because they 
do not want to bring real legislation to 
the floor. Why aren’t we spending our 
time coming to a real bipartisan solution 
that helps our veterans and helps 
the nondefense part of our country, 
which is so important? 

The time to sit down and to begin 
real budget negotiations was a long 
time ago, but we will take it now. I am 
happy to learn the Republican leader 
said he wants negotiations—he said 
this a couple days ago—he wants negotiations 
to begin very soon. Well, isn’t 
that nice. Democrats have been waiting 
for 4 months. So let’s get to it. 

Just imagine what we could have accomplished 
if the Republican leader 
had taken us up on our offer 4 months 
ago. The U.S. Government wouldn’t 
have come within hours of a shutdown, 
hundreds of government agencies 
would not have had to spend time and 
effort preparing for a shutdown, diverting 
them from their main jobs. 

If you want to see how close we were 
to a government shutdown take a look 
at what took place in the House of Representatives 
yesterday. We passed over 
here in the Senate a short-term continuing 
resolution to fund the government 
until December 11. It went to the 
House, and they voted on it yesterday. 
Three-fifths of House Republicans— 
151—voted for a shutdown. They voted 
against the continuing resolution. 
That says it all. 

I have reminded people before, and I 
will do it again. The government was 
shut down here a couple of years ago 
for 17 days. We finally got it open. We 
passed something over here, and it 
went to the House. Two-thirds of the 
House of Representatives—Republicans 
in the House—voted to keep the government 
closed. 

There are so many programs that are 
just not being taken care of. I will talk 
about a couple of them right now. 
There is something I have worked on 
since I came here—the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund. The Presiding Officer 
is from Nevada. He has represented 
the northern part of the State for 
many years in different elective jobs. 
He understands and knows Lake Tahoe 
very well. It is a beautiful lake that we 
share with California. Well, the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund helps us 
greatly because we were able to take 
some money out of that program and 
purchase land that was going to be 
used for subdivision that would have 
allowed more filth to go into Lake 
Tahoe. We were able to stop that with 
money from the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund. The money hasn’t been 
coming in as we have wanted in the 
past, so we beefed it up and were able 
to do a lot of things. 

Now, for the first time in 50 years, 
this program has been allowed to expire. 
It is gone. This program has been 
supported by Democrats and Republicans 
and by rural and urban communities. 
But on the Republicans’ watch, 
one of the most important programs 
and one of the best programs for our 
Nation’s parks—and one of the most 
broadly supported programs in the 
country—has been allowed to lapse. It 
is gone. 

The program is funded by a portion 
of fees collected by offshore oil and gas 
drilling. Every day that it is not authorized, 
we lose out on collecting $2.4 
million of offshore oil and gas so it can 
be used for our beautiful natural resources 
that are in a state of disrepair. 
This Land and Water Conservation 
Fund has supported projects in every 
State, from protecting the rim of the 
Grand Canyon to securing access to the 
Appalachian Trail, and from Lake 
Tahoe to building neighborhood playgrounds 
in urban areas across the 
country. 

In a last-ditch effort to sway their 
own leadership, several Republicans 
came to the floor yesterday and tried 
to pass a stand-alone extension of the 
program that would be dead on arrival 
in the House. The Republican leaders 
refused to extend the program in the 
continuing resolution, despite many 
Democrats and Republicans asking for 
it to be included. 

One other program. The good Senator 
from Illinois—the senior Senator from 
Illinois, the assistant Democratic leader, 
served in the House of Representatives, 
as I did, with a man named 
Claude Perkins. He was a wonderful 
House Member. When we came to the 
House in 1982, he was a very senior per


son. He was responsible for something 
called the Federal Perkins Loan Program. 
It wasn’t reauthorized in the 
continuing resolution. What does that 
mean? As a result of that, the Nation’s 
oldest student aid program has expired, 
leaving up to 150,000 students who are 
coming into college in the lurch. 

The Perkins Loan Program offers 
low-interest, federally subsidized student 
loans for students with exceptional 
financial needs and also offers a 
variety of forgiveness options for those 
who choose to pursue public service 
professions. Last year, more than $1.2 
billion in new Perkins loans were made 
to about 540,000 new and returning college 
students around the country, including 
500 low-income students from 
Nevada. 

It is hard to believe the tea party-
dominated House—and obviously the 
Republican Caucus here is heavily influenced 
by the tea party—has turned a 
blind eye to this. It is hard to believe 
the tea party-dominated House of Representatives 
passed an extension of 
Perkins unanimously, but Senate Republicans 
would not agree to do the 
same. Yesterday, Senate Republicans 
even blocked a bid to extend the program. 


These are just two of the programs 
that expired at midnight last night. 
There are many more. It is a shame because 
they wouldn’t have expired at all 
if we had sat down and negotiated a 
few months ago. So I say to my friend 
the Republican leader: Let’s not waste 
another minute on politically motivated 
votes that are doomed to fail. Instead, 
let’s focus the Senate’s energy 
and attention on bipartisan negotiations 
to get our country on the right 
track. 

Mr. President, would the Chair announce 
the business of the day. 

f 

RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the leadership time 
is reserved. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate will be 
in a period of morning business for 1 
hour, with Senators permitted to speak 
therein, with the time equally divided, 
with the majority controlling the first 
half and the Democrats controlling the 
final half. 

The Senator from Louisiana. 

f 

MILCON–VA APPROPRIATIONS 

Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, I wish 
to speak on the Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs appropriations 
bill that is now being considered. I will 
start by saying that this is 3601 
Gerstner Memorial Parkway, Lake 
Charles, LA. This is the location for 
the new Lake Charles VA clinic—a 
clinic that has taken 13 years to get 


S7058 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

approved, a clinic that has seen delay 
after delay, costing veterans access to 
quality health care, a clinic still waiting 
to be built. 

This is a picture of the current facility 
in Lake Charles, where veterans 
have to go for their health care while 
they have waited for over 13 years to 
have the new facility built. This RV 
and this small building are why Congress 
must advance this MILCON–VA 
appropriations bill and why the President 
should sign it into law. 

This mobile clinic in Lake Charles— 
you almost laugh—is the clinic for our 
veterans. It is one of many such clinics 
in our country and is unacceptable. 
This is something one might see in a 
documentary about developing nations, 
not the United States of America. This 
RV, where our veterans are treated for 
serious medical conditions, is connected 
to a waiting room that is triple 
the size of the square footage of the 
mobile home. That is because the demand 
for care so greatly exceeds this 
subpar facility’s ability to deliver 
health care to our veterans. 

In the waiting room there is a television 
set, but it is not plugged in and 
it doesn’t have a remote. That is because 
VA rules say you must have a TV 
in the waiting room, but the rules 
don’t stipulate that it must function. 
It sounds like a joke. We have to have 
a television, but we don’t say it has to 
be plugged in. 

This is the current state of the VA, 
and this is what Congress is allowing 
when we fail to pass this needed legislation. 


I would like to say this is an isolated 
problem but there are veterans all over 
the country receiving health care 
under similar circumstances. For more 
than 10 years, our young men and 
women have returned from war in the 
Middle East. These young veterans are 
joining men and women who have 
served this Nation in uniform, defending 
our freedom in every corner of the 
globe. They deserve better than a mobile 
home. They deserve action, and 
they deserve it now. If we don’t pass 
this bill, there will be consequences for 
people—America’s heroes—who need 
help now. 

This is the VA portion, but it is also 
the military VA construction budget. 
If we fail to act, it will not just be our 
veterans who are hurt; it will also affect 
our Active-Duty military and our 
national security. 

We know there is a portion of the 
budget which goes for actually protecting 
our military construction, but 
what sometimes people forget is there 
is a human face to our military. Gen. 
Robert Rand recently took control of 
Global Strike, a position that is 
charged with maintaining our nuclear 
triad and first strike capabilities, but 
there are those in the Air Force who 
serve under General Rand. He needs the 
resources to maintain our nuclear ability, 
but without this legislation we 
cannot maintain his combat readiness, 
which includes basic needs such as 

housing for our soldiers and educating 
their children. 

I urge my fellow Senators to consider 
what is included in this legislation: 
family housing, schools, medical facilities 
for Active-Duty personnel and 
their families, and funding for the care 
of 6.9 million veterans. 

Let me add something to this. As a 
doctor, I am glad we also specifically 
provide for groundbreaking hepatitis C 
treatments and for modernizing the VA 
electronic medical records system. 

The Senate Appropriations Committee 
passed the Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs appropriations 
bill by a bipartisan vote of 12 to 
9, with all Republicans and 5 Democrats 
voting in favor. 

This is common sense. Congress has 
the duty to pass this legislation now, 
and the President has an obligation to 
sign it. We must honor our commitment 
to our military and to our veterans. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
ROUNDS). The Senator from Maine. 

Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise 
today to urge my colleagues on both 
sides of the aisle to support the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs 
appropriations bill. 

Yesterday, Congress sent the President 
a continuing resolution, a bill to 
prevent a government shutdown. This 
was necessary to ensure that vital resources 
and services the American people 
depend on do not lapse and in order 
to avoid harm to jobs and our economy. 
But as my colleagues fully realize, 
simply putting government on 
autopilot through a continuing resolution 
is not the responsible way to fund 
government. It locks in last year’s priorities, 
delays the start of vital new 
programs, and allows unneeded programs 
to continue to be funded. We 
must pass the 12 annual appropriations 
bills. 

In July of this year, the Senate Appropriations 
Committee, on which I am 
privileged to serve, reported the last of 
the 12 bills. This was the first time 
that all 12 of the appropriations bills 
have been approved by the committee, 
in plenty of time for the Senate to act, 
since 2009. It is past time for the Senate 
to take up and pass these funding 
bills so that we can go to conference 
with our House colleagues and send to 
the President annual funding bills that 
reflect our current priorities that benefit 
the American people. 

In May of this year—in May—the 
Senate Appropriations Committee reported 
the Military Construction and 
Veterans Affairs funding bill by a 
strong, bipartisan vote of 21 to 9. As a 
member of the subcommittee with jurisdiction 
over this bill, I know this 
represented bipartisan consensus and 
hard work. It reflected the leadership 
of Chairman KIRK and Ranking Member 
TESTER. 

This bill provides vital resources for 
our veterans and our servicemembers. 
We are operating under very challenging 
budget constraints, and I sup


port the negotiations that are going on 
now. But it is long past time for the 
Senate to take up, debate, amend, and 
pass each of these appropriations bills. 
We have the opportunity to do that 
just now, and I do not understand those 
who argue that we should not proceed 
with the normal appropriations process. 


Those who disagree with provisions 
in this bill will have the opportunity to 
offer amendments to change the bill. 
But to not even allow this vital funding 
bill for our military and for our 
veterans to come to the Senate floor is 
an argument that I do not accept nor 
understand. 

We owe it to our Nation’s veterans, 
127,000 of whom reside in the great 
State of Maine. There are more than 21 
million nationwide. We owe it to them 
to move forward with this important 
bill. These veterans answered the call 
to duty. They shouldered the hardships 
and sacrifices of military service. They 
have done their jobs. It is time for the 
Senate to do its job. We must fulfill 
our obligations and affirm a larger 
commitment made long ago to take 
care of those who have so proudly 
served our Nation—the patriots who 
have worn our Nation’s uniform. 

To highlight a few examples of why 
this bill is so important, let me mention 
that it ensures our veterans have 
access to critical mental health care 
services. It aims to reduce veteran 
homelessness—a very important issue 
to me that I have worked on with Senator 
JACK REED as a member of the 
HUD and transportation appropriations 
subcommittee—another bill that we 
need to bring to the Senate floor. This 
bill provides funding to pay veterans 
benefits and includes $270 million for 
the Office of Rural Health, important 
to the Presiding Officer as well as to 
my State. This office has established 
the program called the ARCH Program, 
or Access Received Closer to Home. 
ARCH ensures that rural veterans in 
the pilot States, who often have a difficult 
time accessing the regular VA 
health system, can receive care closer 
to where they live. This has been a tremendous 
success in northern Maine, 
which has one of the pilot programs in 
Caribou, ME, in conjunction with Cary 
Memorial Hospital. This has made such 
a difference to our veterans. 

I remember one of our veterans telling 
me about breaking his hip last winter 
in the height of a terrible winter 
storm. Instead of enduring a painful 
and bumpy ride for more than 4 hours 
to get to the VA hospital in Augusta, 
he was able, through the ARCH Program, 
to receive care at his local hospital, 
Cary Memorial in Caribou, ME. 
He also had the benefit of being able to 
receive care closer to where his family 
and friends were. 

The programs that I just mentioned, 
like so many that are contained within 
the Military Construction-VA appropriations 
bill, are essential to ensuring 
that veterans who have placed their 
lives on the line for our continued safety 
receive the benefits they have 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7059 

earned. This bill is essential to providing 
updated military housing and 
other construction upon which those 
who are serving today depend. 

It is simply irresponsible for us not 
to proceed with consideration of this 
and every other appropriations bill. 
They are ready. They have been reported 
by committee. Let’s do our job. 
We must do our best to honor those 
who serve, and who have served, and 
who have sacrificed so much for our 
country. Surely—surely—the Senate 
should do its part. We should do our 
part by promptly passing this important 
bill. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Georgia. 

Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I wish 
to commend the distinguished Senator 
from Maine. She has articulately explained 
why we need to move forward, 
and I want to underscore something 
that she said. 

For 6 years now, the Senate has abdicated 
its responsibility to appropriate. 
We have left the prioritization of 
spending to faceless bureaucrats and 
faceless buildings in Washington, DC. 
The needs of our veterans and soldiers 
and our country have gone unheeded, 
while we in here have argued about 
things that are superfluous and actually 
unimportant. 

I came into this Chamber today and 
listened to the distinguished Senator 
from Nevada, the minority leader, 
make the following statement: He 
can’t understand why the leader would 
bring forward a ‘‘can’t-pass’’ piece of 
legislation and not go to something 
more important. 

I want the Senator from Nevada to 
go out to Walter Reed Hospital or to go 
to the hospital in Maine or the hospital 
in Arkansas and tell those soldiers, 
who sacrificed and risked their lives 
for us, that their needs for health care 
are not more important, or to tell Jim 
Webb, who was a Member of this Senate 
and passed the GI bill expansion a 
few years ago, that the educational 
benefits for dependents, children, 
wives, and others are not that important. 
Tell the people of the United 
States of America that those who protect 
us, those who have sacrificed, 
those at risk are not more important. 

There is nothing more important 
than our veterans and our military. 
There is nothing more important in 
our constitutional responsibility as 
Senators than to appropriate the 
money of the American people. We are 
abdicating our responsibility. It is professional 
and political malpractice, and 
it is time it stopped. I get sick and 
tired of the political bantering back 
and forth when there are things come 
before us that must be done. 

As chairman of the Veterans’ Affairs 
Committee, last Thursday night in this 
Senate we passed unanimously—and it 
has now passed the House—a total reform 
of VA construction, and we fixed 
the Denver hospital problem that has 
been going on for 6 years in the VA. 
The Denver hospital has had a 428.3 

percent cost overrun. That is unconscionable 
and that is wrong. But we finally 
are fixing it. 

With this bill—if the distinguished 
minority leader will let us take up this 
important bill, rather than something 
that is not as important—we are going 
to fix VA construction forever because 
what this does is to say that the VA no 
longer is in charge of construction of 
hospitals and clinics. The Corps of Engineers 
is. It is about time we had construction 
management by people who 
know what they are doing. Doctors are 
good at fixing people, but they are not 
very good at bricks and mortar. We 
need the bricks and mortar people 
doing it. 

Secondly, this bill funds mandatory 
veterans’ benefits through 2017. We had 
a threat of a government shutdown 
yesterday. Fortunately, we avoided it, 
but we have had it in the past, and we 
could have it again. Veterans health 
care should never be shut down, and we 
need to continue to forward-fund medical 
benefits so our veterans know— 
whether or not we are foolish and shut 
down the government—that their 
health care is going to be met. 

As the Presiding Officer knows, in 
the great State of South Dakota—and 
Senator COLLINS knows from Maine— 
the biggest complaint we get is about 
the lack of timely responsibility in determining 
disability claims in the VA; 
right? We have veterans waiting 478 
days to get a disability claim on an injury 
they suffered fighting a war for 
us—478 days, almost 2 years. That is 
terribly wrong. This bill fixes that. It 
provides the money for the personnel 
necessary to expedite disability claims 
so veterans get a timely judgment. 

Now you tell me this, Senator from 
Nevada: What is more important, taking 
care of these guys taking care of us 
or just debating on the Senate floor a 
bunch of hot air that means no difference 
to the American people? 

It is time we fished or cut bait. It is 
time we did what we were elected to. It 
is time we set the priorities. It is time 
we honored our commitment to those 
who honored their commitment to us, 
the veterans of the United States of 
America. 

So as chairman of the most bipartisan 
committee in the Senate, the 
Veterans’ Affairs Committee—of which 
the Presiding Officer is a member—we 
don’t have Democratic spats and Republican 
spats. We talk about our veterans. 
Almost everything we pass out 
is unanimous. We do so because we all 
agree that—Republican or Democrat, 
black or white, rich or poor, whatever 
the case might be—we would not be 
where we are today nor would we be 
what we are today if it weren’t for 
those who sacrificed, risked their lives, 
and, in some cases, died for the people 
of the United States of America while 
serving in the military. 

So I don’t know what the Senator 
from Nevada thinks is more important. 
But for me, these guys right here are 
the most important thing in the world. 

And to vote against proceeding to debate 
this important appropriations bill 
is professional malpractice and wrong. 
I hope my colleagues on both sides of 
the aisle will make a commitment to 
those who served us and vote to proceed 
to the VA-MILCON appropriations 
bill. 

I yield back the remainder of my 
time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arkansas. 

Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, yesterday 
Congress passed yet another 
short-term continuing resolution. 
While this avoids a shutdown, it is far 
from ideal. Certainly a shutdown is not 
good governing. I think all of us can 
agree on that much. I wish to remind 
my colleagues, though—particularly 
those on the other side of the aisle— 
that continuing resolutions are hardly 
better. While the American people demand 
that we get our financial house 
in order, Washington continues to pass 
stopgap after stopgap funding bills. Instead 
of tackling this challenge head-
on, these short-term extensions continue 
current funding levels and prevent 
us from stopping waste, fraud, and 
abuse of taxpayer dollars. Just like a 
shutdown, this, too, is no way to govern. 
There is another option. We don’t 
have to choose between a continuing 
resolution and a shutdown. The third 
choice is the right choice, and that 
choice is for this Chamber to follow 
regular order and pass all 12 appropriations 
bills. 

We have done our work at the Appropriations 
Committee. For the first 
time in 6 years, every spending bill has 
cleared committee—all 12—and most of 
them passed with strong bipartisan 
support. I commend the Appropriations 
Chairman COCHRAN and Leader MCCONNELL 
for their leadership to make that 
happen. 

The full Senate has the responsibility 
to consider each of these bills as well. 
Leader MCCONNELL is committed to 
this approach. Our caucus is behind it 
100 percent. The minority, on the other 
hand, is actively working against it. 
Committee passage of these 12 bills was 
no easy task. Both sides made compromises. 
These bills were the product 
of a great deal of give-and-take. 

We worked very hard for months to 
ensure that these bills reflect the 
spending and policy priorities that are 
right for our Nation. These bills should 
not simply be left for dead. The President 
is encouraging the Senate Democrats 
to obstruct the appropriations 
process because he wants more domestic 
spending for agencies like the EPA 
and IRS. This is not the direction our 
country needs to go. I hope my colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle 
will reconsider this failed strategy. 

The funding bills show the American 
people that we share their priorities. 
For instance, the bill before us takes 
care of our Active Military and our 
veterans when they return home. 
Clearly this is an area of bipartisan 
agreement. Yet talk of a filibuster remains. 



S7060 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

Here is what the minority is considering 
filibustering: increases in funding 
for veterans services, military housing 
and family support, hospital and health 
facilities construction, just to name a 
few vital things in this bill. The bill increases 
funding in areas where our veterans 
need it most—health care, benefit 
claims processing, and medical research. 
It also includes funding for 
projects to ensure military readiness 
and improve the quality of life for military 
families. In light of the numerous 
scandals that have plagued the VA, it 
includes some strong policy reforms 
such as protection for whistleblowers. 

These are funding and policy priorities 
for both sides of the aisle. That is 
why this bill passed out of the Appropriations 
Committee with strong bipartisan 
support. That is why it should 
move forward without resistance on 
the Senate floor. Yet the minority is 
threatening a filibuster for reasons 
that have nothing to do with this bill. 
This is all about protecting the President’s 
agenda. 

President Obama wants spending increases 
across the board. He has issued 
a blanket veto threat for any appropriations 
bill that does not meet his 
demands. Basically, the President’s 
view is that if such agencies don’t get 
more money, then neither should our 
veterans or military families. It is my 
hope my colleagues on the other side of 
the aisle recognize this is out of line 
with our Nation’s priorities. 

The right thing to do is reject the 
President’s call to obstruct so we can 
continue to work together for the good 
of the country. Determining how we allocate 
taxpayer dollars is our responsibility, 
not the President’s. Continuing 
resolutions have been all too common, 
while they should be a rare exception. 
We need to reestablish our priority of 
regular order and pass the individual 
funding bills that are needed to keep 
the government open. We can start 
that today and by moving the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations 
bill forward. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from West Virginia. 

Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, we 
heard from many Members talking 
about the situation with the appropriations 
bill, and I would like to add my 
voice to the chorus. For too long uncertainty 
has hampered our Nation’s 
ability to grow our economy and make 
necessary investments in our workforce, 
our infrastructure, and our technology. 
It was imperative that we 
avoided an unnecessary and reckless 
government shutdown this week, but 
that was a short-term patch. Now more 
than ever we need to take longer term 
actions to move our economy and our 
Nation forward. 

As the Senator from Arkansas mentioned, 
earlier this year the Appropriations 
Committee, on which I sit, accomplished 
something that has not 
been done since 2009. We passed all 12 
appropriations bills through the full 

committee. We did so in a fiscally responsible 
way. We did so within the 
budget caps agreed to by the Congress. 
Many of us voted for those budget caps. 
We did so with broad-based bipartisan 
support; 9 of the 12 bills had broad-
based bipartisan support. These bills 
touch every aspect of government and 
every facet of our economy. From 
transportation, medical research, energy 
investments to justice programs, 
these funding bills were robustly debated. 


Knowing all this, why are the Democrats 
blocking the Senate from considering 
one of these single appropriations 
bills? Earlier this week it was the Defense 
appropriations. Today it is the 
MILCON–VA. Why? Why are they 
blocking these same bills that many of 
them have previously voted for in committee 
and touted to their constituents? 


Last week I had the privilege of traveling 
across West Virginia with VA 
Secretary McDonald. We heard directly 
from veterans about their challenges 
and needs. One of the things we discussed 
was the Greenbrier County community-
based outpatient clinic that 
had been closed. Secretary McDonald 
made a commitment, with over 200 veterans 
that we had in the room from 
that area, that that clinic would reopen 
quickly, but without the certainty 
of the funding that we have in 
these bills, Secretary McDonald cannot 
make those assertions across the country. 
We went to the Huntington VA 
Hospital, where we met with employees 
and veterans—committed individuals 
who want to see our veterans treated 
the way we want them to be treated, 
but the advances in medical technologies 
can’t move forward without a 
certainty of what the funding levels 
are. 

These men and women, our brave veterans, 
deserve our unified support and 
should not be subjected to the gridlock 
that has been so common in these past 
few years. The Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs bill funds construction 
and care for facilities and 
services that assist our military veterans. 
It improves facilities for men 
and women who are willing to sacrifice 
for our freedoms. I will say, many of 
our VA facilities are challenged with 
approximately 20 percent of women 
veterans who are coming out. They 
don’t have facilities to adequately 
treat our women veterans. This bill 
also includes funding for construction 
of State extended-care facilities, which 
helps construct, expand, and remodel 
nursing home facilities to care for our 
elderly veterans. We know many of our 
veterans are aging in larger and larger 
numbers. 

Determining our Nation’s spending 
priorities, especially when it comes to 
our veterans, is one of Congress’s most 
important responsibilities. Our process 
can work and our government can 
function. We demonstrated that at the 
committee level. We need to demonstrate 
that as well today on the floor 

of the Senate, but make no mistake 
about this, this is not just about process; 
it is also about progress. Funding 
bills are not just numbers on paper; 
they are people. They are our veterans. 
They are our friends and neighbors, our 
fathers and mothers, our sons and 
daughters. They represent the priorities 
of our Nation. 

There are other things in the appropriations 
bills that are equally important. 
We passed out historic investments 
in NIH and community health 
centers. We passed out critical infrastructure 
improvements from expanding 
broadband access to trying to help 
with the drug epidemic. You cannot 
measure the impact of programs like 
the National Guard Counterdrug Program, 
which is helping to combat the 
spread of illegal drugs in our State, or 
the work of the Appalachian Regional 
Commission which helps to improve 
the lives of so many. Endless continuing 
resolutions are not the most effective 
ways to meet these needs and 
can be proved wasteful in both time 
and dollars. Our bills provide critical 
funding, but they also provide direction 
on significant policy matters that 
are facing this Nation. 

When we operate from one short-
term funding patch to the other, we as 
Members of Congress are forfeiting our 
responsibility to hold the executive 
branch accountable. Advancing appropriations 
bills through regular order is 
a vital check on wasteful spending and 
overreach in our government agencies. 

We need to work together. We can 
start that today, and I hope we will 
later this afternoon. These are broad 
goals, and the goals are shown in those 
bills. As the Senate begins consideration 
of funding for Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs, we should 
remember this: Governing is about setting 
priorities and bringing fiscal responsibility 
to the Federal Government, 
while ensuring that we provide 
for the necessary investments and services. 
Supporting our veterans is not 
only necessary, it is about the men and 
women who put their lives on the line 
for us so we can enjoy the freedoms we 
have here today. West Virginia is a 
very patriotic State, with one of the 
highest percentages of military veterans. 
I want to see that they are cared 
for properly. I am going to make that 
vote today. I hope my colleagues—the 
ones who are on the Appropriations 
Committee who have already voted in 
favor of this bill—will convince their 
colleagues on the other side that gridlock 
and obstructionism is not the way 
to go in the Senate. It is time to work 
across the aisle to pass this bill and 
support our veterans. Doing so will 
strengthen our Nation. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7061 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. we did, some of them for extraor-Senator CORNYN and Senator WHITECAPITO). 
Without objection, it is so or-dinarily unfair and unjust periods of HOUSE took a look at those in prison to 
dered. time. The worst vote—the worst vote I determine ways they could earn an ear-

ever cast as a Member of Congress was lier release or better terms of release.

f 

SENTENCING REFORM 
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, 
there are many stories written in the 
last months about the dysfunction of 
Congress, why can’t they get along, 
why can’t they produce something, 
why can’t they address the issues and 
challenges of our time. It is easy to get 
into that mindset and believe that 
something has happened on Capitol 
Hill that cannot be repaired. For those 
who are about to give up hope, I hope 
they are reflecting on what I left just a 
few moments ago. It was a press conference 
held up in the radio and TV 
Senate gallery. 
Attending this press conference were 
Senator CHUCK GRASSLEY, who is the 
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee; 
Senator JOHN CORNYN, the Republican 
whip; Senator MIKE LEE of 
Utah; and Senator TIM SCOTT. On the 
Democratic side: Senator PATRICK 
LEAHY, the ranking Democrat on the 
Senate Judiciary Committee; Senator 
COREY BOOKER of New Jersey, a relatively 
new Member of the Senate; 
Senator SHELDON WHITEHOUSE; and 
Senator CHUCK SCHUMER. 
We were there to announce what we 
think is a historic achievement, a historic 
agreement. We have been working 
now for years, literally for years, on 
both sides of the aisle to make significant 
and meaningful criminal sentencing 
reform and reform to the corrections 
system of the United States of 
America. On that stage, from MIKE LEE 
to PAT LEAHY and DICK DURBIN, was 
the entire political spectrum of the 
Senate. Within that spectrum, there 
are a lot of differences of opinion. 
There were times a year ago that I did 
not think that meeting and that announcement 
would take place. 
But today we came together, on a bipartisan 
basis, to announce that we 
had reached an agreement, a historic 
agreement, on the Sentencing Reform 
and Corrections Act of 2015. We knew 
we had a problem in America, a problem 
of incarceration. A nation with 5 
percent of the world’s population has 25 
percent of the world’s prison population. 
What is going on in America? 
Why are so many people in prison, and 
has it made us any safer? We asked 
those hard questions and came up with 
what we think is a good response. 
We took a category of crime, drug 
use, that does not involve violence or a 
gun or gang activity and said: We are 
going to give to the judge in that case, 
that category of cases, more flexibility 
when it comes to sentencing. The minimum 
mandatory requirements can be 
changed by the judge based on the defendant 
before him, the crime they 
committed, and what that judge believes 
to be the best for our society. 
It is such a change. For the longest 
time, years and decades, our goal was 
to incarcerate as many as possible, and 

in the House. It goes back more than 20 
years ago. A basketball player at the 
University of Maryland named Len 
Bias died from a drug overdose. We 
were called on to stiffen the penalties 
for crack cocaine in America and we 
did, dramatically: 100 to 1 for crack cocaine 
versus sentencing for powdered 
cocaine—100 to 1. The net result of that 
in several decades of sentencing was to 
send away primarily African Americans 
for incredibly long sentences. Eugenia 
Jennings of Alton, IL, a teenage 
mother and a crack addict was selling 
crack cocaine, a handful of it, to buy 
clothes and food for her children. It 
was her third offense. 

When she was convicted, the mandatory 
minimum sentencing guidelines 
gave Judge PATRICK MURPHY no choice 
but to hand down a sentence of 23 years 
in prison. Judge Murphy said at the 
time: This country, this government, 
has done nothing for you, Ms. Jennings, 
through your tortured life, and 
now at this moment in life we are 
going to kick you hard. 

The judge knew it was the wrong sentence. 
Fortunately, Eugenia Jennings’ 
sentence was commuted after a dozen 
years. She was released from prison to 
be with her children, only for a short 
time. She passed away from cancer. 
But that is just one statistic, one 
story, and it can be repeated thousands 
of times. 

This bill tries to avoid that type of 
injustice. We were not going to be a 
safer State, a safer nation if she served 
23 years instead of 12. It made no sense. 
So we address it with this bill. With 
this bill, we go after a new approach in 
sentencing on this narrow category of 
crimes, which we believe can result in 
many serving shorter sentences. 

Secondly, for those who are still in 
prison subject to that 100-to-1 ratio on 
sentencing, we give 6,500 inmates in the 
Federal prison system a chance to petition 
for reconsideration of their sentence 
on an individual basis, so they 
can be judged by judges, prosecutors, 
and people in the community as to 
whether their sentence should be 
changed. 

So this, in a way, is a sweeping bill 
when it comes to the population of our 
prisons. I believe—many agree—it 
would be far better to take the $25,000, 
$30,000, $35,000 a year it costs to house 
an inmate and put it instead into community 
policing, making our neighborhoods 
safer, giving our prosecutors the 
resources they need to not only come 
down with the right sentences but variations 
in sentencing like drug courts, 
veterans courts, and things that are 
working around America which will 
make us safer at a lower cost. We will 
have more money available to the Department 
of Justice and across the 
board to go after the seriously threatening 
criminals we still have in America 
whom we can never ever ignore. 

They did extraordinary work. Senator 
Corey Booker of New Jersey stepped in 
on an issue that all of us who serve 
with him know he feels so passionately 
about, the African-American incarceration 
rate and particularly the impact 
it has on young people in that part of 
our population. He made some valuable 
contributions to this bill. 

It is our hope we can bring this bill 
to the Senate Judiciary Committee 
soon. Senator GRASSLEY gave his word 
that would happen, and then bring it to 
the floor and send it to the House. 

For those who say, ‘‘What is going to 
happen over there, with all of the 
changes taking place?’’ I would make 
one observation: Our spectrum of political 
support for the bill we had at the 
press conference represents the spectrum 
in the House as well. All of us 
came together. All of them can come 
together too. They may not agree with 
every word in this bill. Having served 
in the House, I am sure they won’t. But 
if they will make the same good-faith 
effort at finding reasonable compromise, 
then we can reach a historic 
achievement, a historic outcome in 
this process. 

I wish to commend one member of 
my staff in particular who has devoted 
more hours than I could ever count to 
make this a reality. His name is Joe 
Zogby. He is my lead counsel on the 
Senate Judiciary Committee. Time and 
time again, Joe Zogby has performed 
so professionally and with such determination, 
from my point of view and I 
am sure from other Senators’ points of 
view. We wouldn’t be here today if we 
didn’t have staffers like Joe who have 
given so much of their time and their 
heartfelt dedication to finding a solution 
to an American problem. 

So before we walk away from the 
Congress and say there is no hope, take 
a look at this bill and this effort. This 
is how the Senate is supposed to work. 
This is how the House is supposed to 
work. It is how Congress is supposed to 
work. It is how America expects us to 
work. 

The President is anxious for us to 
come up with this work product. Let’s 
not disappoint him and the millions of 
Americans who count on us to solve 
the problems facing America. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

9/11 HEALTH PROGRAM 
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I 
rise today to mark a sad occasion. Yesterday, 
parts of the Zadroga 9/11 Health 


S7062 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

and Compensation Act expired. Specifically, 
the authorization of the 9/11 
health program—one of the two critical 
programs in the Zadroga act—came to 
an end last night and will have to start 
winding down. Thankfully, Dr. Howard 
and his team, who run the program, 
have responsibly managed their funding, 
so they can continue to support 
health services and benefits for several 
months on into the future, perhaps another 
year. 

To be clear, our brave heroes are still 
able to get health care from this program 
today. That fact, however, should 
diminish in no way our responsibility 
in Congress to reauthorize the program 
as quickly as possible and permanently—
forever. In truth, it is a black 
mark on a Congress that the program 
was ever allowed to expire, regardless 
of its ability to continue operations in 
the short term. 

The firefighters, police men and 
women, construction workers, and first 
responders from 9/11—many of them injured, 
many of them sick—traveled to 
Washington a few weeks ago to lobby 
Congress, to petition their representatives 
and their government to continue 
supporting basic health services they 
need to treat cancers, respiratory ailments, 
and other illnesses directly 
linked to 9/11. 

I wish to thank my colleague from 
New York, Senator GILLIBRAND, for her 
valued work on this issue. It has been 
a passion for her. She took the torch 
Hillary Clinton first lit when she was 
here as Senator and has run with it 
hard and well. I am proud to be her 
partner in trying to make sure that 
Zadroga, in both its parts, is extended 
permanently. 

People would think it would be easy 
to get this done considering all the legislators 
who say they will never forget, 
who make promises each anniversary 
to honor the heroes of 9/11. We should 
not need them to walk the Halls of 
Congress to win support for basic services 
for those who walked undaunted 
through dust, fire, rubble, and ash, who 
risked their lives to save their fellow 
citizens. The first responders who ran 
to the smoldering towers on 9/11 are 
just like our veterans—they volunteered 
and risked their lives for our 
safety. These folks didn’t have to do 
this. They volunteered. They knew the 
dangers, but they care about our safety. 
We should not forget them. 

But their voices and the impassioned 
advocacy of folks like John Feal and 
Jon Stewart have had a real impact. 
On September 16, when these first responders 
visited Congress, the majority 
leader graciously said he would meet 
with them personally and said: ‘‘We do 
plan to extend the program and the 
committees...in the House and the 
Senate are actually working on the details 
now.’’ It was a real breakthrough. 

The first responders who pled their 
case, the advocates who supported 
them each step of the way, and champions 
in Congress such as Senator 
GILLIBRAND here and Representatives 

NADLER and MALONEY in the House, 
who passionately led the fight for this 
bill for years now, deserve much of the 
credit. They are the reason we have so 
many cosponsors—56 here in the Senate, 
including 12 Republicans. I wish to 
thank the Presiding Officer for being 
one of those recent cosponsors. 

That is why I was so troubled to hear 
earlier this week, when again asked if 
the Senate would consider the extension 
of the Zadroga act before the deadline, 
the majority leader said he would 
‘‘have to check and get back on that.’’ 

When the towers were hit, the firefighters 
and the EMS workers and cops 
who rushed into those burning buildings 
did not stop and say ‘‘I have to 
check on that and get back to you.’’ 
When the towers came down and there 
was a hellhole of twisted steel and 
smoldering plasterboard, with our 
brothers and sisters trapped within, 
the smell of burning flesh still in the 
air—I was there; I vividly remember 
it—and thousands with anguished faces 
holding signs that said ‘‘Did you see 
my mother, Mary? Have you seen my 
brother, Bob?’’ because people didn’t 
know where people were—maybe they 
were still alive but trapped in the 
smoldering towers—the first responders 
so bravely rushed in to see if they 
could save any lives. They did not say 
‘‘I have to check on that and get back 
to you.’’ No, they rushed right to the 
towers. They rushed in even before 
they were asked. They did their duty. 
They did more than their duty. Many 
died. Many more are suffering. We 
don’t need to check on things and get 
back to them. We need to write the 
check to fund their health care for the 
injuries they sustained in selfless service 
to their Nation when we were under 
attack by a foreign enemy. Period. End 
of story. 

So what changed so much over the 
course of 2 weeks? When the first responders 
were here in DC, the majority 
leader committed to passing the legislation 
they need and so richly deserve 
for their heroism. A few weeks later, 
when the eyes of the world aren’t 
watching quite so closely, he said: I 
will have to check and get back. 

I would plead with the majority leader 
to help move this legislation forward 
and move it forward quickly. Let’s not 
have to have these first responders, 
many of whom have all kinds of cancers 
they acquired on those fatal days 
after 9/11, come back here again and 
again. Let the doctors who are bravely 
working for the program not have to 
worry whether they will have a job. 
And let the program itself, which has 
been done without an iota of fraud—all 
the claims of ‘‘Let’s do it for 5 years 
because we are not sure it will work’’— 
those are the things we negotiated, 
Senator GILLIBRAND and I with Senator 
Coburn—those worries are gone. It is 
working exquisitely well, and there has 
not been an iota of fraud or misspent 
money. 

So we shouldn’t have to check on it; 
we should just move forward. I plead, 

plead, plead with our majority leader, 
who was genuinely moved by the first 
responders when he met them, to make 
sure the bill moves forward. And let me 
say the same to the new leaders—whoever 
they may become—in the new 
House, in the new elections that are 
coming. 

We cannot leave these heroes in 
limbo. We cannot leave them wondering 
if their health program, now expired, 
will be there for them if and 
when they get sick. As John Stewart 
said so well, cancer doesn’t expire. 

I only ask one thing this morning— 
one thing: that the majority leader and 
the Speaker honor their commitments 
to put this bill on the floor of both 
Houses. I implore them to move quickly 
to pass the Zadroga 9/11 health reauthorization 
act. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President, 
I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. 
FISCHER). Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 

f 

CONCLUSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning 
business is closed. 

f 

MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, THE 
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS, 
AND RELATED AGENCIES 
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016—MOTION 
TO PROCEED 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate will resume 
consideration of the motion to 
proceed to H.R. 2029, which the clerk 
will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 98, H.R. 
2029, a bill making appropriations for military 
construction, the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and related agencies for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, and for 
other purposes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alaska. 

Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President, 
I am here this morning to speak about 
the issue that is before this body, the 
motion to proceed to H.R. 2029, or what 
we refer to as the MILCON–VA appropriations 
bill. 

I certainly intend to support closing 
off debate on this and moving to take 
up this important appropriations measure. 
This is important for a host of different 
reasons, not the least of which is 
that we need to get to the substance of 
this issue. We need to get back to a 
regular order process in order to advance 
the appropriations bills that we 
on the Appropriations Committee have 
spent a considerable amount of time 
and effort drafting. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7063 

Over these past many months, we 
have worked to make sure that the 
bills were ready for floor consideration. 
We didn’t want to find ourselves in a 
situation where, at the end of this 
year, we scramble to piece together an 
omnibus measure that has not had the 
considered debate and opportunity for 
amendment that I believe we all seek 
as lawmakers. It is important that we 
consider the Military Construction-VA 
bill in regular order and do it now—not 
stick it on the back end of another 
measure, not incorporate it into an 
omnibus bill or into some fashion of a 
CR omnibus right before Christmas. 

I serve on the Appropriations Committee. 
I had input into this bill at the 
subcommittee level and again at the 
full committee markup, which is a lot 
more than can be said of many of my 
colleagues in this body who don’t have 
that opportunity since they are not on 
the Appropriations Committee. But 
even after having the input that I have 
had, it is extraordinarily important 
that I have another opportunity to influence 
the bill, and I will illustrate 
why. 

I am going to speak about one very 
specific issue today that has garnered 
the attention, concern, and passion of 
Alaskans and veterans around the 
State, and that is the issue surrounding 
the Veterans Choice Card. 

In the view of many Alaskans, the 
Veterans Choice Card is an unmitigated 
disaster in our State, and there 
are many reasons that is the case. We 
don’t host a stand-alone VA hospital in 
Alaska. So the VA has issued a Choice 
Card to every veteran in the State who 
is enrolled for health care. In order to 
use the Choice Card, you have to identify 
a provider that is willing to accept 
the card, qualifies under the very onerous 
Choice Card standards, and is also 
willing to put up with the bureaucratic 
strings that are attached to determining 
which care is approved by the 
VA over what period of time and for 
what price. 

In Alaska, we have a demand for 
health care providers that far outstrips 
the supply, and I have been on the floor 
many times speaking on that subject. 
We have many Alaskans that have private 
health insurance which pays the 
providers better, and it is certainly 
more efficient than the government-
sponsored programs. 

Structurally, the way the Veterans 
Choice Card Program is currently designed, 
it does not provide Alaska’s 
veterans with the choices that it promises. 
It is just as simple as that, and 
those are just the structural problems 
we are talking about. Many of our colleagues 
know that TriWest has encountered 
difficulties with implementing 
the program, and the VA has had trouble 
coordinating TriWest’s work with 
the work of the local VA facilities. Unfortunately, 
these problems have led to 
some dangerous near-misses. 

We had one situation with a veteran 
who was scheduled for a fee-basis neurosurgery. 
He was going to receive this 

care from a community provider in the 
State. Then he was told by the VA that 
the VA had changed its mind. They 
were not going to sign off on paying for 
the care. The vet was told to call 
TriWest. The TriWest call center operator 
gave the veteran a list of behavioral 
health providers who had signed 
up to accept the Choice Card. The call 
center operator didn’t know that neurosurgery 
is not the same as behavioral 
health. By the time the VA had reversed 
itself, the neurosurgery that the 
veteran had initially scheduled was no 
longer available. The vet had to wait 
for one to become available. 

What happened in the interim? They 
gave the veteran pain medicine. 

In another case, we had a veteran 
sent to Seattle for a course of radiation 
therapy, and in the middle of this 
course of radiation therapy the vet was 
told to return home because his authorization 
had expired. He was told: 
The authorization has expired. Go 
home. 

It is not as if he could just get in a 
car and drive 20 minutes back to his 
house. He had been sent to Seattle 
from a rural community in Southeast 
Alaska for the care—for the radiation 
therapy. They said: Go home. Your authorization 
has expired. 

So there was a whole series of exchanges 
with TriWest and then with 
the VA itself. The vet began, basically, 
calling family members to tell them he 
was coming home to die and to start 
making funeral preparations. This is 
not how we treat our veterans. 

Now the Veterans Choice legislation 
provided that the Choice Card program 
does not displace any of the existing 
VA purchased care programs. It explicitly 
supplemented those programs, 
which for us in Alaska would be a good 
thing. In Alaska, the VA—and this was 
under Secretary Shinseki’s leader-
ship—established two purchased care 
programs to address gaps in VA capacity 
in Alaska. One of the programs provided 
for partnerships with our tribal 
health system to care for our vets in 
more remote areas of the State where 
the VA simply doesn’t have a presence. 
It was innovative. It was innovative at 
the time, and these partnerships 
worked. They really did help to facilitate 
the care. The other program called 
‘‘Care Closer to Home’’ enabled the VA 
to purchase care from community providers 
in the State who performed medical 
services that the VA didn’t offer— 
services such as neurosurgery and specialized 
forms of radiation therapy. 

Before this program was implemented, 
the VA forced veterans to fly 
to Seattle or other parts of the country 
for services that we would consider 
pretty routine. You have a 1,000-mile-
plus flight to Seattle for an orthopedic 
appointment or for a neurosurgery appointment. 
This is what we are putting 
our veterans through. Imagine you are 
70 years old, 80 years old, and you are 
told to go take a flight for 31/2 hours to 
Seattle—get yourself to the hospital 
just for an orthopedic appointment. By 

the time the veteran is at this place 
and needs that appointment, you are 
not feeling well in the first place. 

I have talked and written before 
about a veteran on the Kenai Peninsula 
who died while fighting with the VA 
over urology care. He couldn’t travel to 
Anchorage, which is about a 3-hour 
drive, much less to Seattle where the 
VA wanted to send him because he was 
in very frail condition, but the VA refused 
to purchase his care on the Kenai 
Peninsula where there are facilities 
that could have helped him. I think we 
would all agree that when our elderly 
veterans are in perhaps their final 
months of life, they have got a lot better 
things to do than fight with the VA 
and the bureaucracy. 

When the VA came to the hearings 
before the appropriations subcommittee, 
I asked them pointblank 
whether the implementation of the 
Veterans Choice Card would adversely 
affect the existing purchased care programs 
in Alaska, whether it is through 
IHS or further specialized care, and the 
answer was clear. There was no nuance; 
there was no doubt. The answer was no, 
it is not going to impact negatively the 
purchased care program. When the Senate 
Appropriations Committee marked 
up the MILCON-VA bill on May 21, the 
VA hadn’t changed its answer. It is not 
going to negatively impact, they said. 

Then a week later, on May 28, I happened 
to be visiting the VA facility in 
Anchorage, and I learned there that 
the VA had spent all of its fiscal year 
2015 purchased care money and was 
planning to suspend its relationships 
with community providers and the 
Alaska tribal health system. 

I had gone to the VA center to get an 
update, to check in with the new docs 
who were there and to see how things 
were going. It was basically a checkup 
with the folks at VA, and they laid this 
bombshell. They weren’t trying to be 
coy with me or hide the ball. They had 
just learned themselves. I don’t know 
who was in greater shock, me or the 
folks there at the VA and their military 
partners. 

We were also in a situation where 
there were a lot of rumors that the VA 
was going to pull out of the Joint Venture 
Hospital that it shares with the 
Air Force on the Joint Base Elmendorf-
Richardson. Again, this was a bombshell 
of news. Now we know that the 
VA was not just out of purchased care 
money, it was out of money to operate 
its health care system, and without the 
emergency infusion of money we provided 
from the Choice Act fund before 
August recess, the VA would have run 
out of money before we had come back 
from the August recess. 

It was a situation that was a mess. 
We fixed the mess for 2015 but did nothing 
for 2016. 

What does the VA’s failure to properly 
project the cost of purchased care 
in 2015 mean for its fiscal year 2016 appropriations? 
After asking the VA on 
several occasions, I am left with the 
impression that the VA once again will 


S7064 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

run out of money for purchased care 
and then will remedy this situation by 
shoving veterans who are seeking care 
under the Choice Card whether the care 
is meaningfully available or not. So we 
have been pushing the VA on this, and 
to Secretary McDonald’s credit, he 
came to Alaska this summer. The Undersecretary 
for Health, Dr. Shulkin, 
visited Alaska. They weren’t sheltered 
from the anger that our vets were feeling. 


My colleague Senator SULLIVAN conducted 
an incredible field hearing to 
create a record of how the VA, 
TriWest, and the Choice Card Program 
were individually and collectively failing 
Alaska’s veterans. But here’s the 
problem. We don’t have a fiscal year 
2016 solution locked down, and we may 
not have an acceptable solution locked 
down by Veterans Day, either. 

Without an opportunity to debate the 
fiscal year 2016 appropriations bill on 
the floor, I have limited opportunity to 
press this point, to demand that the 
GAO investigate what actually is going 
on and try to amend the bill to ensure 
that the VA has adequate purchased 
care money available so that it doesn’t 
drop these veterans through the cracks 
when it can’t serve their critical care 
issues, and neither can the Choice Card 
program. Without the opportunity to 
debate in regular order, I can’t do what 
the people of Alaska have asked me to 
do in representing them the way I 
know that we need to in order to deal 
with this. 

I hear what the Democratic leader is 
saying, that the Budget Control Act 
needs to be addressed, but I don’t agree 
with the tradeoff that we cannot consider 
appropriations bills in regular 
order while conversations are ongoing 
to address the bigger, broader question. 
Failing to consider these bills in regular 
order corrodes the influence of 
this body; it corrodes the ability of 
Members to fulfill the responsibilities 
that we have to the people that we 
work for. These are issues. 

Again, I chose to focus my comments 
this morning on one area within the 
MILCON-VA, on that implementation 
of the Choice Card in Alaska, and how 
it has so basically failed our veterans. 
But there is so much more. Again, if we 
don’t have that opportunity to bring it 
up, to offer our amendments, to do our 
best to serve the needs of our veterans, 
we fail them. We fail the system. 

I do hope we will have the opportunity 
this afternoon to advance to 
these important measures. Remember, 
this is just the first of 12. It is very important 
work that we have in front of 
us. 

Madam President, I know my colleague 
from Connecticut has arrived on 
the floor, but before I yield the floor to 
him, I want to briefly mention a meeting 
that I had this morning in my office. 


WELCOMING MEMBERS OF THE ANCHORAGE FIRE 
DEPARTMENT HONOR GUARD 

Madam President, I was able to welcome 
members of the Anchorage Fire 

Department Honor Guard to my office. 
They are making their way to Emmitsburg, 
MD, to be part of a ceremony at 
the National Fallen Firefighters Memorial, 
where they will pay tribute to 
and honor the firefighters who have 
given their lives in the line of duty 
during the year 2014. 

REMEMBERING JEFF BAYLESS 

The firefighter whom Alaska is recognizing 
and honoring is a gentleman 
by the name of Jeff Bayless. He died at 
the age of 51 on March 7, 2014, during a 
strenuous training exercise in Anchorage. 


How Jeff Bayless lived his life as a 
fourth-generation Alaskan, and as one 
who had not only a love for the outdoors 
but a love and care for people, is 
something that we want to pay tribute 
to, and we want to honor and recognize 
him. 

This weekend, on the campus of the 
National Fire Academy in Emmitsburg, 
MD, the name of fallen Anchorage 
firefighter Jeffery Edward Bayless 
will be inscribed on the National Fallen 
Firefighters Memorial. A total of 87 
firefighters will be honored, and 84 of 
those firefighters, including Jeff, gave 
their lives in the line of duty during 
2014. Three died in previous years. This 
week, I welcome members of the Anchorage 
Fire Department Honor Guard 
to my office, as they make their way to 
Emmitsburg to celebrate Jeff’s life and 
his contributions to the fire service. 

I wanted to reflect for a moment on 
the life of fire hero Jeff Bayless. Jeff 
died at age 51 on March 7, 2014, during 
a strenuous training exercise in Anchorage. 
Heroes are remembered for 
the way they lived their lives and this 
is how we should remember Jeff 
Bayless. 

Jeff was a fourth generation Alaskan. 
He grew up in Copper Center, attended 
Alaska Bible College in Glennallen, 
and then became a paramedic through 
the Oregon Health Sciences University 
training program. Jeff was also trained 
as a Registered Nurse. After serving as 
a paramedic in Oregon, he returned to 
Alaska to work as a first responder in 
Matanuska-Susitna Borough. Ultimately 
he found his home at the Anchorage 
Fire Department, first as a 
paramedic and then as a firefighter. He 
excelled in both roles. Working his way 
up the ranks, Jeff was a Senior Captain 
at the time of his passing. 

As would be expected of a fourth generation 
Alaskan, Jeff had a love for the 
out of doors. From an early age, Jeff 
put his mastery of the outdoors to 
work in the service of lifesaving. As an 
older teenager, Jeff and his buddy happened 
upon a flash flood in the Yukon 
that swept vehicles off the road. Using 
their wilderness savvy, they roped up 
and rescued every person. 

Later in life, as a member of the Anchorage 
Fire Department’s whitewater 
rescue team, he plucked several victims 
from dangerous waters. One of 
these rescues was particularly memorable. 
On September 16, 2012, Jeff’s Station 
11 was called out to rescue a 

kayaker on the Eagle River who was 
lodged against a tree after his kayak 
overturned. The kayaker was in the 
water for about 90 minutes when a bystander 
called for emergency assistance. 
First the tree had to be cut, then 
the kayaker plucked from the water by 
his lifejacket. The kayaker was 
hypothermic by this point. While a 
number of units from the Anchorage 
Fire Department responded, Jeff was 
senior on the three-man jet boat team 
that plucked the victim out of the 
water. Jeff’s team won the American 
Red Cross of Alaska Wilderness Rescue 
Heroes award. Jeff characterized the 
rescue as one of the most challenging 
successful rescues his team had ever 
been involved with. The team was well 
trained to perform the rescue and in 
spite of the dangers ‘‘everyone went 
home,’’ including the victim. 

I cannot characterize Jeff’s life in 
words more touching than on his National 
Fallen Firefighters Foundation 
official biography. He spent his life 
simply doing what he loved, completely 
engaged, lost in the moment. 
Without any consciousness of the impact 
his own life was having, he left behind 
a great legacy of life, encouragement, 
accomplishments, and friendship. 


That, my colleagues, is the definition 
of a fire hero. 

He would say he was one of the guys 
who was just doing his job, but as one 
of those men who was just doing his 
job, he needs to know that we view him 
as one of our heroes. 

Our thoughts and our prayers are 
with his family and all of his brother 
and sister firefighters as they gather 
this weekend in Emmitsburg. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Connecticut. 

ZADROGA 9/11 BILL 

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam President, 
I thank my colleague from Alaska 
for yielding and giving me this opportunity 
to discuss two measures that 
ought to be beyond debate or discussion 
on this floor as well as in Amer-
ica—two issues where Americans ought 
to unite and be together without controversy 
or contention. 

The first relates to the emergency responders 
who rushed to the rubble of 
the World Trade Center in New York in 
the wake of that horrific attack on 
America on September 11. I want to 
join and thank my colleague from New 
York, Senator SCHUMER, who just 
spoke on the floor, and associate myself 
completely with his very eloquent 
and powerful explanation for why this 
Nation must meet its obligation to provide 
critical health care for those 
emergency responders, firemen, police, 
and medical personnel who went to 
that site, even as it continued to smolder 
with poisonous chemicals and 
fumes, risking their lives in the face of 
peril that they little understood and 
could not know. They never asked 
whether that place was dangerous, but, 
in fact, as we now know, it has caused 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7065 

countless cancers, blood diseases, and 
lung problems, which have manifested 
themselves in the years after. 

Yet at midnight last night, the beginning 
of this day, the programs designed 
to provide critical medical care 
and compensation to the victims were 
permitted to expire. That is unconscionable 
and unacceptable. 

I join my colleagues from New York 
and New Jersey as a leading cosponsor 
in urging this Congress to act—and to 
act immediately and urgently—to 
make sure that we do what is right for 
those emergency responders who served 
and sacrificed in the wake of 9/11. Failure 
to do so is absolutely outrageous. 
The fund still has some money, and it 
will continue to function. But this Congress 
should act to pass the Zadroga 9/ 
11 bill immediately. 

Madam President, the second area 
where I think we ought to be all agreeing 
relates to doing what is right for 
our veterans, and that means restoring 
the $857 million that has been deleted 
from the President’s request for veterans 
in the Military Construction, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2016. This bill essentially shortchanges 
our veterans and straitjackets the Veterans’ 
Administration. 

Madam President, I ask unanimous 
consent to have printed in the RECORD 
a letter from the American Legion. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

THE AMERICAN LEGION, 
OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL COMMANDER, 

Washington, DC, September 30, 2015. 

Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL, 

Majority Leader, U.S. Senate, 
The Capitol, Washington, DC. 

DEAR MAJORITY LEADER MCCONNELL: Last 
May then-National Commander Michael D. 
Helm called on Congress to pass a budget for 
the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations bill that won’t shortchange 
the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). On 
April 30 the House of Representatives had 
passed a funding bill which unfortunately 
underfunds VA’s medical care, major construction 
and Information Technology accounts 
by more than $1.5 billion below the 
Administration’s request. 

We were pleased when the Senate Appropriations 
Committee remedied that shortfall 
somewhat, but because they were tasked 
with making an unworkable allocation workable, 
the Senate version of the bill still 
underfunds veterans by approximately $857 
million. This comes at a time when the VA 
is faced with an unprecedented demand for 
services, in terms of both numbers and complexity.


We need your help to ensure that VA is 
fully funded so it can provide the care and 
services veterans have earned and need. An 
inadequate VA budget will have a negative 
effect on the timeliness and quality of care 
that veterans will receive. Fully funding VA 
must be a very high priority for Congress.

The American Legion is the largest veteran 
service organization in the nation and 
we take our responsibility to analyze and 
evaluate veterans’ healthcare options very 
seriously. As VA, Congress and The American 
Legion move forward together we must 
ensure that America’s veterans are provided 
with the healthcare and services they have 
earned and were guaranteed. 

Respectfully, 

DALE BARNETT, 

National Commander. 

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. This letter emphasizes 
the challenges that the VA 
faces in meeting the unprecedented and 
increasing demand for services that our 
veterans need and deserve. This obligation 
for our country is not a matter of 
discretion or convenience, it is a promise 
that we have made and we must fulfill 
to provide medical care, skills 
training, job opportunity, and, most especially, 
the mental health care that 
our veterans need so that we can stop 
the 22 suicides every day in this country—
the greatest, strongest, country in 
history of our world, where 22 of our 
Nation’s heroes commit suicide every 
day. 

They suffer from the invisible 
wounds of war, post-traumatic stress 
and traumatic brain injury. Many of 
our veterans suffer the more visible 
wounds, and they need care as well. 
Many of our veterans in increasing 
numbers will be coming out of the service 
needing jobs and skills training, not 
only through the VA but the Department 
of Labor. Just yesterday, the 
nominee for the Veterans Employment 
and Training Services position in the 
Department of Labor testified before 
the Veterans’ Affairs Committee as to 
the importance of services provided by 
the Department of Labor, and yet they 
too will be shortchanged by this budget. 


So I urge my colleagues to provide 
sufficient funding to restore that $857 
million and to make sure that we meet 
those needs of our veterans. Failing to 
do so is as unacceptable as failing to 
meet the needs of the emergency responders 
who went to the 9/11 site. This 
bill underfunds the VA’s medical facilities 
by $100 million, reducing the VA’s 
ability to keep pace with the need for 
critical facility maintenance. This is 
upkeep that is vital for basic repair 
and maintenance. Facilities will decay 
and downgrade without that funding. It 
is an investment in basic infrastructure. 


We ought to be investing in the personnel 
of the VA—the doctors and 
nurses and other professionals—so that 
we recruit and retain the men and 
women who will really do the work on 
the ground in the trenches to make 
sure that the VA provides the best care 
possible—world-class care to our veterans. 
They deserve no less. Fully funding 
the VA honors the service and sacrifice 
of men and women who have 
risked their lives to keep our great Nation 
free. Freedom is never free, and 
this Nation ought to be keeping its 
promise to those veterans, which, unfortunately, 
sadly, reprehensibly, this 
measure fails to do. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. FLAKE. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent to enter into a colloquy 
with the Senator from Wisconsin. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

BORDER JOBS FOR VETERANS ACT 

OF 2015 

Mr. FLAKE. Madam President, we 
are here to discuss the process for the 
Border Jobs for Veterans Act that is 
going to pass shortly. 

I yield to the Senator from Wisconsin. 


Mr. JOHNSON. Madam President, 
first, I thank my colleague from Arizona 
for leading and also for his leadership 
for working, on a bipartisan basis, 
with Members from the other side of 
the aisle to really accomplish something 
to produce a result. What I have 
been trying to do as chairman of the 
Senate Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs is that I 
have reached out to every Senator and 
asked them: If you have identified a 
problem, if you have a piece of legislation 
that solves that problem, bring it 
before our committee, and I will do everything 
in my power to mark it up, 
report it out of our committee, and 
then first work with you to first pass it 
through the Senate, then through the 
House, to get that piece of legislation 
on the President’s desk, and to have it 
signed into law to actually solve that 
problem. 

The Senator from Arizona has done a 
great job in this particular case because 
this is a piece of legislation that 
truly is a win-win. It is a win for our 
veterans, and it is a win for the border. 

I am not going to steal the Senator’s 
thunder in terms of describing all of 
the benefits of the bill, but I just want 
to mention a couple. We obviously have 
a huge problem at our border, and neither 
one of us would claim that this is 
going to solve all of our problems. But 
it identifies one—a staffing problem 
with our ports of entry. Also there is 
another problem in terms of our veterans 
who have served this Nation and 
are unable to find work. So that is the 
win-win. This is a perfect example of a 
piece of legislation now that solves 
that problem. 

Coming from the manufacturing sector, 
I never did quite understand why 
our returning veterans—with their esprit 
de corps, with all their skills, all 
their dedication, their great attitude— 
are having a hard time finding work, 
because certainly in my manufacturing 
operation in Oshkosh, WI, boy, if I 
found a veteran, I hired that individual 
because they are great workers. Now, 
in my Senate office, we actually have 
seven veterans with a combined total 
of 115 years of service. 

So I think what we are going to find 
now at Customs and Border Protection 
is that this bill will make it easier for 
veterans to connect with those particular 
jobs to help staff our ports of 
entry. Customs and Border Protection 
is going to find that value of being able 
to employ the finest among us because 
we have made that easier. Our veterans 
are going to have the ability to leave 


S7066 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

service and have a very good job further 
serving the country and keeping 
our Nation safe. 

I again thank the Senator from Arizona 
for his leadership on this and for 
working with me to get this passed 
through our committee, passed 
through the Senate, and put on the 
President’s desk for his signature to 
have this bill signed into law so we can 
be helping our veterans and protect 
this Nation. 

I thank the Senator from Arizona. 

Mr. FLAKE. Thank you. I again 
thank the Senator from Wisconsin and 
others I will name later for working so 
hard on this bill. 

The Senator made sure that it moved 
through his committee expeditiously, 
that we got it to the floor in the Senate 
and also through the House as well. 
It is an example of how the Senate and 
the House can work in a bipartisan 
way. I appreciate both the appeal that 
you have made to encourage us to 
come forward with problems that we 
have and to vote for ways that your 
committee can help solve them. 

Thank you again. 

Mr. JOHNSON. If I could just make 
one final point, this is a classic example 
of when we concentrate on the 
areas of agreement and find the areas 
of agreement that unite us, as opposed 
to exploiting the divisions. 

Again, this is a perfect example of 
getting bipartisan support on a piece of 
legislation. It serves as a great example 
for everybody serving in Washington 
to see us concentrate on the 
areas of agreement that unify us rather 
than exploit those divisions. 

Again, I thank the Senator very 
much for his leadership. 

Mr. FLAKE. Thank you. 

Madam President, I wish to talk 
about the problem that led to this bill. 
We have made significant investments 
along the border in terms of port facilities. 
More needs to be done, obviously, 
but we made significant investments to 
accommodate cross-border traffic. 

There is a lot of good that goes on at 
the border. We often just focus on the 
bad—the illegal crossings, the drug 
trade, and whatnot—but there is a tremendous 
amount of good that happens 
on the border, particularly the border 
of Arizona and Mexico. 

There is a lot of commerce that goes 
in. Arizona’s ports of entry processed 
$30.5 billion worth of goods in 2014. This 
is an increase up from $18.5 billion in 
2009. So there is a lot of good that goes 
on. We have needed more adequate 
staffing at these ports. 

The Border Patrol officers with 
whom we often associate the border are 
in green uniforms. What we need more 
of are blue uniforms—people to actually 
facilitate this cross-border traffic 
and the flow of goods that benefits us, 
benefits Mexico and other countries to 
the south as well. 

Secretary Johnson, when we asked 
why we were having difficulty filling 
these slots for staffing of these ports, 
said that—well, let me just say we au


thorized—the Senate and the House authorized—
2,000 new CPB officers. We 
authorized these positions, but as of 
earlier this year, only 800 of the 2,000 
had been filled. So Secretary Johnson 
was explaining that the delays are associated 
with applicant background investigations, 
low polygraph clearance 
rates, and a shortage of Federal polygraph 
examiners combined with attrition. 


So we thought: What group of people 
do we have who have gone through 
these security clearances already and 
who could clear this hurdle and expedite 
this? And it is, of course, our returning 
men and women from the military 
and those who are now out of service. 
They have, in many cases, already 
gone through the security clearances. 
They have passed the polygraph test 
and could more expeditiously move 
into these jobs. Obviously, we have 
concerns, and we have several other 
programs that deal with returning veterans 
to make sure that there are jobs 
awaiting them. 

Let me say that this doesn’t affect 
any of the preferences or other positions 
that are available for our veterans. 
This simply requires CPB and 
the Department of Homeland Security 
to coordinate or collaborate with our 
military to see what jobs are out there 
and see what positions can be filled. 

It shouldn’t take an act of Congress 
to get two agencies to work together 
like this, but sometimes it does. So 
that is what this legislation is doing, 
and it will require reporting to happen 
as well to make sure that this is being 
accomplished and the coordination is 
occurring. 

Let me just talk about some of the 
endorsements for this legislation, some 
of those groups that have helped us in 
exploiting the need and coming to a solution. 


The Arizona Chamber of Commerce 
and Industry said: 

The Border Jobs for Veterans Act . . . 
helps advance two major national priorities: 
the facilitation of cross-border commerce 
and the future employment of the tens of 
thousands of men and women who separate 
from military service each year. Ensuring 
our ports of entry are properly staffed is 
critical to our nation’s ability to compete on 
a global scale. 

The president of the Fresh Produce 
Association of the Americas said: 

The Border Jobs for Vets Legislation is 
crucial for continuing to grow the nation’s 
economy. It is helping businesses across the 
country continue to prosper by facilitating 
trade while also using the skills and knowledge 
of an amazing asset we already have, 
our veterans, to do this important work. 

The Greater Nogales-Santa Cruz Port 
Authority said: 

Border communities like Nogales, Arizona, 
depend greatly on the ability of people and 
goods to cross the border effectively and efficiently. 
We have been pushing for many 
years for additional staff. . . . The Border 
Jobs for Veterans Act is one of the most significant 
steps taken on this issue in many 
years. 

The president of the Tucson Hispanic 
Chamber of Commerce said: 

We appreciate our Arizona Senators’ innovative 
approach to a problem that is impacting 
our communities and our economy. Any 
impediments that increase wait times at our 
ports of entry such as a lack of adequate 
staffing impact our retail sales and ultimately 
the financial success of our business 
community in Arizona. 

I would like to take a moment to 
thank my Senate colleagues—Senator 
RON JOHNSON, who already spoke here; 
Senator MCCAIN, who played a critical 
role in this; Senator SCHUMER, Senator 
BURR, Senator BALDWIN, Senator FEINSTEIN, 
Senator LANKFORD, Senator SULLIVAN, 
Senator TILLIS, Senator 
TOOMEY, and Senator DAVID VITTER— 
for cosponsoring this bipartisan legislation. 


After being approved by the Senate, 
Arizona Congresswoman MARTHA 
MCSALLY has led the effort to get it 
passed in the House unanimously. She 
played a great role there, and I want to 
thank her for leading this effort in the 
House. 

Thanks to everyone’s support and the 
hard work of committee staff, including 
Brooke Ericson and Holly Idelson 
on the Senate Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs Committee and 
Paul Anstine of the House Homeland 
Security Committee, we now have this 
bill ready to head to the President’s 
desk. 

In conclusion, let me just say that 
those leaving the military need jobs 
and CBP needs officers. This is a great 
bill that will require coordination between 
the two, and it will lead to 
greater staffing at less cost and certainly 
in less time. So I look forward 
to having the administration look at 
this and look forward to having the 
President sign this legislation. 

With that, Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of H.R. 2835, which was received 
from the House. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the bill by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 2835) to actively recruit members 
of the Armed Forces who are separating 
from military service to serve as Customs 
and Border Protection officers. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

Mr. FLAKE. I ask unanimous consent 
that the bill be read a third time and 
passed, the motion to reconsider be 
laid upon the table, and any statements 
related to the bill be printed in 
the RECORD. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The bill (H.R. 2835) was ordered to a 
third reading, was read the third time, 
and passed. 

Mr. FLAKE. Madam President, 

yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Ms. AYOTTE. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7067 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without The law that created the Land and priorities are. What could be more sigobjection, 
it is so ordered. Water Conservation Fund in 1965 estab-nificant in our priorities than the bill 
lished that a portion of the revenues that I would like to see us take up

f 

MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, THE 
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS, 
AND RELATED AGENCIES 
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2016—MOTION 
TO PROCEED—Continued 

UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2101 

Ms. AYOTTE. Madam President, I 
come to the floor today to ask for an 
extension of a very important program 
to my State—the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund—and because of that I 
ask unanimous consent that the Energy 
and Natural Resources Committee 
be discharged from and the Senate proceed 
to the immediate consideration of 

S. 2101; I ask unanimous consent that 
the bill be read a third time and 
passed, and the motion to reconsider be 
laid upon the table. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 

objection? 

The Senator from Utah. 

Mr. LEE. I object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec


tion is heard. 

The Senator from New Hampshire. 

Ms. AYOTTE. Madam President, I am 
very disappointed that last night the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund expired, 
and so it has lapsed. I just offered 
a unanimous consent request to 
extend this fund for 60 days to make 
sure there was not a lapse in this important 
program. 

This is a fund that, in my home State 
of New Hampshire, has been used to ensure 
the public can enjoy our beautiful 
environment and our natural spaces, 
from my home city of Nashua, NH, and 
Mine Falls Park, which I love to run 
through every morning when I am in 
New Hampshire, to our beautiful White 
Mountain National Forest. 

I had the opportunity to come to the 
floor yesterday with Senators from 
both sides of the aisle, including my 
colleague from Montana, Senator 
DAINES. The Senator from Montana 
had a wonderful picture of him and his 
wife in their public lands that have 
been preserved using the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund. The picture 
was of him and his wife hiking. We all 
understand that a big part of the beauty 
of this country is our natural beauty, 
and because of that, the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund was established 
in 1965. It was actually established 
to aid in the preservation of 
spaces for outdoor recreation across 
this Nation. 

In New Hampshire we have a very 
strong tradition of the outdoors being 
such a part of who we are. In fact, the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund has 
led to more than 650 individual acquisition 
and development projects in our 
State. We very much support the public 
use of our lands in our State, enjoying 
their natural beauty, whether it is 
hiking, fishing, hunting or any number 
of other wonderful uses we can have of 
our public lands. So this fund has been 
very important, and I believe we should 
not let it lapse. 

coming from oil and gas leasing would 
be designated for this purpose. So to 
not extend this fund really is another 
example, if you look at the fund itself, 
where portions of these dollars have actually 
been taken to spend for other 
purposes in the Treasury, not in accordance 
with the law. We see that 
happen too much in Washington. But 
to let this lapse is very unfortunate. 

I am very disappointed my colleague 
has rendered an objection because this 
is such a bipartisan issue and something 
that has done so much for our 
country—this program—and for my 
home State of New Hampshire. So I 
hope in the coming days we will be able 
to work together to have the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund program extended 
and that we can get beyond the 
partisan objections and get it done so 
we can work together to preserve the 
beautiful spaces in this country. This 
program has done so much for my 
home State of New Hampshire and for 
many States across this country, and 
that is why it has such strong bipartisan 
support. 

Madam President, I am very disappointed 
that my very reasonable request 
in asking for unanimous consent 
to extend this program for 60 days 
until we can get to the long-term permanent 
authorization—which I support 
and I have cosponsored, and I think 
that is what we need to do in the long 
term—has been objected to. To let this 
lapse is completely unacceptable when 
it has been such a strong program in 
allowing everyone in this country to 
enjoy our public lands, to enjoy the 
great outdoors in the greatest country 
on Earth. 

With that, I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, I 
want to talk for a few minutes about 
the discussion we are having about 
whether to have a discussion. The debate 
we are having about whether to 
have a debate is always amazing to me. 
How far we have moved in such a short 
period of time from the way the Congress 
always did its work. The way you 
set your priorities, both at home and in 
the government, is how you spend your 
money. You might think that is not 
the way you set your priorities, but if 
you think something is very important 
to you and your family and you find 
out you are not investing any money or 
time in it, it is probably not all that 
important. It is probably something 
you have decided is a good thing to say 
is very important. 

This is the process we go through in 
the government to talk about what our 

today, the VA-Military Construction 
bill, the bill that determines lots of 
things about not only people who serve 
in the military but what is available 
for their families, and what kind of 
support structure there is, and then 
with the Veterans’ Administration, 
what is there after they serve, how are 
we meeting that commitment we made 
to our veterans that if they serve for 
the government—and we are grateful, 
so we should then make sure we are always 
there to do what the American 
people have told veterans we would do 
if they served. 

We have already had votes not to go 
to the Defense appropriations bill—a 
bill that is about the same amount of 
money the President asked for and 
what the President said was needed to 
defend the country, but apparently 
there is some balance somewhere in the 
world—that I am not aware of—that no 
matter how much it costs to defend the 
country, you have to spend that much 
money on other things that don’t defend 
the country; that there is a balance 
between what is happening in 
Syria today and how many employees 
the EPA needs or how many employees 
the IRS needs. Obviously, that is something 
that doesn’t make sense to people. 
It doesn’t make sense to me, but 
we couldn’t get the four additional 
votes we needed to go to the Defense 
appropriations bill. I guess in a world 
where the President said he is also 
going to veto the Defense authorization 
bill—not because of what it authorizes 
but because of the money that 
eventually the appropriators would 
have to spend—people have to wonder 
what is going on. The No. 1 priority of 
the Federal Government is to defend 
the country, and following that priority, 
our obligation is to those who 
serve in the military and their families. 
That is what the Military Construction 
bill would do. It actually 
spends a little more money than we 
spent this year. That appears to be 
everybody’s complaint; that somehow 
the government is not spending enough 
money, but the Appropriations Committee 
took the amount of money that 
the law allows, and the Budget Control 
Act did a good thing in terms of keeping 
spending under control. That is one 
of the few things that has happened in 
Washington, DC, in a long time that 
actually did put a lid on spending because 
it actually put a lid on spending. 
It actually says in the law how much 
money we can spend this year on discretionary 
spending. The Appropriations 
Committee, with Republicans in 
charge for the first time in a long time, 
did the work for the first time in a long 
time. In fact, this is the first year in 6 
years that the Appropriations Committee 
voted all the bills out of committee, 
marked up all of the bills, cut 
places where the committee thought 
should be cut, increased places where 
the committee thought should be increased, 
and this at a level that the law 


S7068 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

allows, but apparently the law is not 
good enough for our friends who always 
want to spend more money. It is not 
even good enough to debate the bills 
that come out at the level of the law, 
to let those be amended, and to let that 
work be publicly done. 

This worked pretty well for a long 
time. I think initially there was probably 
one spending bill, but I think in 
the tradition of Congress, that was the 
one bill that in both the House and the 
Senate we were able to debate as long 
as we wanted to, until everybody was 
worn out, offering their ideas as to how 
to spend the money better or not spend 
it at all. The House has continued to do 
this, except for a couple of years under 
Speaker PELOSI, on the half dozen big 
bills of the 12 spending bills we have 
now, and they traditionally have 200 or 
300 amendments on each of those bills 
on how to spend the money. Some of 
those suggestions were not to spend it 
at all. What could be healthier than 
that? The Senate is not allowed to do 
that. At the end of the day, we are saying: 
Let’s debate these bills. Let’s, of 
course, debate the bill that defends the 
country. Let’s debate the bill that 
takes care of those who do defend the 
country. 

This bill includes $5.5 billion more 
than was spent last year. I don’t recall 
hearing a hark and cry—when this bill 
finally gets passed as part of one big 
not very appealing package—from anyone 
saying that we were not spending 
nearly enough on military construction 
or veterans programs last year, 
but even though we are spending $5.5 
billion more than we spent last year, 
some are saying it isn’t nearly enough 
to spend this year. The committee 
thought it was enough. 

In fact, this bill was voted out of 
committee—and remember this committee 
has Democrats and Republicans 
on it—with a vote of 27 to 3. Eleven 
Democrats and all the Republicans 
said: This is the best way to spend this 
amount of money—$5.5 billion more for 
these purposes than we spent last year. 
Let’s vote this bill out so it can be debated 
on the Senate floor. Here we are 
months later, still trying to get 60 Senators 
to agree to have that debate. Actually, 
I think we are trying to get five 
Senators to agree to have that debate 
because all of the Republicans, and one 
Democrat, appear to be willing to move 
forward on these defense funding bills, 
but there is not enough on the other 
side. If we could get half of the Democrats 
who voted for the bill in the committee, 
we would have the votes we 
need to have this debate and talk about 
spending money. 

Eventually the government has to be 
funded, and we should all understand 
that if we don’t do it this way, the alternative 
is that it will be funded in 
absolutely the worst possible way as 
one big bill with no debate and having 
to settle on some desperate decision at 
the end of the year in order to keep the 
government funded because we do have 
to defend the country. 

I am not arguing with the decision 
that ultimately has to be made to defend 
the country. I am not arguing 
with the decision that ultimately has 
to be made to have the military installations 
that allow that to happen with 
military construction. I am not arguing 
with the decision that has to be 
made for the veterans affairs part of 
our government, including veterans’ 
health—mental and physical—behavioral 
health, and other health, to be 
funded properly, but why aren’t we debating 
on that today? 

What would be wrong with debating 
this bill? If you were not one of the 27 
Senators on that committee—so 27 percent 
of the Senate has already voted on 
this bill. Let’s send it to the Senate 
floor and vote on it. If you are not one 
of the 27 Senators who voted for it or 
one of the 3 who voted against it, bring 
your ideas to the floor. That is how 
this process is supposed to work. Your 
ideas may be better than what is in the 
bill, but we will never find out if we are 
not allowed to debate it. This is regrettable 
for veterans and their families. 
We see a Veterans’ Administration 
that is not doing what it ought to do. 

A year ago, the President said the 
Veterans’ Administration was the best 
funded part of ‘‘his government,’’ but 
now there is not enough money. Suddenly 
there is not enough money. The 
President thought there was enough 
money a year ago, but apparently there 
is not enough money now. The real 
issue is that there is not enough commitment 
to veterans and the Veterans’ 
Administration. We could have that debate 
here too. 

Over the last year, we have moved a 
long way toward giving veterans more 
choices, more options, and more places 
to go to get their health care. That 
system is in its fledgling stages, and it 
ought to be debated as we talk about 
how to spend money that would be 
spent on the Veterans’ Administration, 
but we can’t debate and vote on it if 
people aren’t willing to have the vote 
it takes to have that debate. We ought 
to be getting back to the way this 
process works transparently and the 
way it works constitutionally. We need 
to have this vote today. We need to get 
to the Defense appropriations bill. 

Earlier this week, we had a vote— 
which I didn’t support—to move forward 
for a few more weeks with last 
year’s spending. Last year’s priorities 
only work for so long. Just a couple of 
years ago, we had the situation where 
the Budget Control Act had to go into 
effect—and it went into effect because 
Congress didn’t do its job and ended up 
appropriating more money than the 
law would allow—and that required 
line-by-line cutting, the sequester, 
which is not a necessary part of that 
law at all. It is only a part of the law 
if the Congress violates the law, and 
the Congress violated the law. The 
President signed the bill, and then we 
had to do the line-by-line cutting. 

We brought the leaders of our military 
in to talk about this, and none of 

them were for line-by-line cutting. 
Who would be? That is the worst possible 
way to reduce spending because 
you are not making any choices, you 
are just admitting that you can’t make 
any choices, and so everything gets cut 
everywhere. Every one of them said 
this is a big problem, but an even bigger 
problem in almost every case is the 
sequester. In fact, Admiral McRaven of 
Special Ops said that an even bigger 
problem than the sequester is the continuing 
resolution because we were 
cutting lines of a budget that might 
have met the military needs 5 years before, 
but it hasn’t been updated for 5 
years. 

Let’s have this debate. Let’s move 
beyond saying that we can’t decide how 
to spend the money to debating how to 
spend the money. Let’s have a defense 
structure that works for 2015 and 2016, 
not a defense structure that might 
have worked for 2010. One of the great 
frustrations the people we work for 
have with us today is they believe this 
is not all that complicated, and they 
are right. How complicated can it be? 
We were elected to the Senate so we 
could take positions and vote, so let’s 
take positions and vote. The debate we 
should be having is about moving forward 
on these critical issues. 

I hope our colleagues will join us 
today. I hope there are 60 Senators who 
will say: I am ready to have this debate. 
I am ready to defend the country. 
I am ready to take care of those who 
defend our country and their families 
and veterans and their survivors. And 
that is what this budget is all about. 

How anyone can walk onto the floor 
and say they don’t want to deal with 
this now and put it off a little while 
longer is disappointing to me and to 
lots of people. 

Let’s get our work done. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. KIRK. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. KIRK. Madam President, I come 
to the floor to urge my colleagues to 
pass the 2016 Military Construction appropriations 
bill. This bill has a $4.2 
billion increase over last year’s level. 

We passed the MILCON–VA bill out 
of the full Appropriations Committee 
by a vote of 21 to 9, with Democratic 
Senators Leahy, Feinstein, Udall, 
Schatz, and Baldwin all supporting 
that bill and with 16 Republicans backing 
it. 

We now have record levels of funding 
to fix the backlog of disability claims 
at the VA. We took construction out of 
the hands of the VA and gave it to the 
Army Corps of Engineers so that we 
never have cost overruns like at the 
Denver hospital again. The bill also 
bans funding for Glenn Haggstrom, the 
bureaucrat responsible for spending 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7069 

$930 million over budget in Denver. The 
bill provides new protections for whistleblowers, 
especially for doctors and 
nurses not protected by the Whistle-
blower Protection Act. 

By voting no on this bill, Members 
will be voting against a $4.2 billion increase 
for our veterans. 

Thank you, Madam President. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from North Carolina. 

TRANS-PACIFIC PARTNERSHIP NEGOTIATIONS 

Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I rise 
today to speak about a subject matter 
I touched on about a month ago regarding 
current trade negotiations. 

I don’t blame elected officials for 
pushing legislation, policy proposals, 
or ideas that further their home 
State’s interests. In fact, I think that 
is one of the first things we should do 
here, that is, to make sure the folks 
who elected us know we are standing 
up for them. 

But I also think there comes a time 
when we need to recognize that the 
long-term interests of our collective 
constituents are at risk, even when we 
are doing short term things that put us 
at risk. 

This is why I have decided that I 
wish to speak a little bit about the current 
status of the Trans-Pacific Partnership 
or TPP negotiations. 

I learned overnight and this morning 
that the American team of the TPP negotiators 
has tabled language which 
would carve certain American-grown 
commodities out of the protections of 
the trade deal’s investor-state dispute 
settlement—or ISDS—mechanism. 

By carving out tobacco from the 
TPP, the President and his administration 
are discriminating against an entire 
agriculture commodity, setting a 
dangerous precedent for future trade 
agreements. 

I rise today to defend the farmers, 
the manufacturers, and the exporters 
from the discriminatory treatment in 
this proposed trade agreement. What 
they have decided to do right now relates 
to tobacco. Today it happens to 
be about tobacco, but I will do this for 
any crop now and for any agriculture 
commodity for any State going forward 
in the future. This is not just about tobacco. 
This is about American values 
and fairness. 

In July I stood on this same floor and 
I discussed this same issue. I went out 
of my way to emphasize that I believe 
free trade is good. That is why I voted 
for trade promotion authority. A balanced 
trade agreement will benefit all 
of us. 

I also recognize that the United 
States over the years has tried to do 
more with these agreements than 
merely haggle for market access or tariff 
reductions. Over the past 30 years, 
the United States has consistently imported 
certain components of our 
American system into these agreements, 
including due process protections, 
dispute settlement procedures, 
and the protection of private property 
rights. 

These are now standard terms that 
those who engage with the United 
States at the bargaining table know 
are not negotiable. 

They never have been—that is, until 
yesterday. 

Our negotiators have now concluded 
that while some investors are entitled 
to equal treatment under the law, others 
aren’t. What our negotiators have 
proposed sets the stage for the remainder 
of this negotiation and for those 
deals which will be negotiated in the 
future, such as the agreement with Europe 
and future agreements with African 
nations. 

Our trade agreements are now apparently 
nothing more than laboratories 
for setting partisan policies and picking 
winners and losers. If we condone 
this kind of behavior, how can we be 
assured it will ever end? 

As I stated in July, once we allow an 
entire sector to be treated unfairly, the 
question is, who is next? Is it the beef 
industry in Nebraska? Is it the pork industry 
in States such as Iowa and 
North Carolina? Is it the poultry industry 
in Delaware, North Carolina, Arkansas, 
and Georgia? 

We need not look far to find protracted, 
heated policy debates about 
any number of issues that affect 
trade—the consumption of coal, energy 
exploration practices, the use of pesticides, 
the use of biotechnology. The 
right place for those debates is in bodies 
like this one, not in trade agreements. 
The wrong place is what is 
going on right now with our trade negotiators 
and the members of the 
Trans-Pacific Partnership. 

I hold a sincere belief that unfair 
treatment for one agricultural commodity 
significantly heightens the risk 
that more unfair treatment for another 
commodity lurks around the corner. 

I have no choice but to use this 
forum to make two very important 
points and make it very clear to the 
negotiators as we reach the final stages 
of the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations. 


First, I would like to speak to process 
concerns. A failure to abide by the 
process and the terms governing the 
process as established by the TPA is 
unacceptable. When I state that I have 
no choice but to use the Senate floor to 
make these points, I mean it. 

A full 8 weeks ago, I wrote to our 
Trade Ambassador cautioning him 
about this course of action and requesting 
that he consult with me as he 
was statutorily obligated in the TPA 
to do. 

To explain to those in the Gallery, 
we passed a bill that said we wanted to 
provide the President with trade promotion 
authority. We wanted to empower 
representatives of the United 
States to negotiate with trading partners 
who are in the Trans-Pacific Partnership. 
We wanted to support that, 
over the objections of many of my colleagues 
on the other side of the aisle. 

We also set certain ground rules for 
being able to do that. They had to re


view with Congress some of the proposed 
items of the agreement that may 
be the most contentious about intellectual 
property, about the carve-out. But 
to date I have had absolutely no additional 
communication from the Ambassador 
or his designees. In other 
words, it has been lights out. 

In fact, I would ask any Member of 
the Senate whether they honestly 
know what currently is in the TPP 
agreement that is being, in my mind, 
pushed forward and pushed to a point 
where we will just have a simple up-or-
down vote. I think this abuse of the 
process is in violation of the letter and 
the spirit of the TPA. 

The last time anybody spoke to me 
regarding this particular provision 
that has to do with the carve-out, I was 
told it is something our partners were 
insisting on. The actions of the last 24 
hours—namely, that the United States 
actually tabled the language in question—
really raises serious doubts about 
that assertion. 

Second, I want to speak to the growing 
view that the TPP is not being negotiated 
in accordance with the substance 
of the TPA. The failure to abide 
by the substance of the provisions of 
TPA puts the privileged status of the 
proposed treaty at risk, and it is something 
I am going to spend a lot of time 
focusing on. 

I would remind this body that we 
have already, in a bipartisan fashion, 
disavowed language that treats some 
products differently. In the TPA, Congress 
said that opportunities for U.S. 
agriculture exports must be ‘‘substantially 
equivalent to opportunities afforded 
foreign exports in U.S. markets.’’ 
Congress has stated that dispute 
settlement mechanisms must be available 
across the board, not selectively. 

I voted to give the President trade 
promotion authority to allow trade 
agreements such as the TPP to move 
through Congress in a quick, orderly, 
and responsible fashion. Congress 
granted the President trade promotion 
authority with the mutual understanding 
that his administration would 
negotiate deals in good faith. I did not 
vote to give the President and the administration 
the freedom to indiscriminately 
choose when fairness 
should be applied and when it should be 
ignored. 

If the President chooses to arbitrarily 
ignore TPA provisions he 
doesn’t like, then Congress is not 
obliged to honor the fast-track status. 
If any carve-out is ultimately included 
in the TPP, I will work hard to defeat 
it. 

I might add that our own majority 
leader has expressed concerns over this 
and has expressed the same sentiment 
to the trade negotiation team. 

In closing, I wish to offer this to anyone 
who believes my sticking up for tobacco 
or this particular provision or 
for equal treatment and American values 
is shortsighted: I want you to know 
that I would do it for beef in Nebraska, 


S7070 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

for pork in Iowa, for poultry in Delaware, 
for any farmer who is being unfairly 
carved out as a result of the administration’s 
desire to put provisions 
in a trade agreement that simply 
shouldn’t be there, and which have not 
been there historically. 

So to the Members of the Senate and 
to the American people and the farmers 
out there, I want you to know I am 
going to continue this fight. I am going 
to continue this fight not because it 
satisfies a home constituency, but because 
I intend to protect the free trade 
ideals that have made the United 
States the most desirable trading partner 
in the world. 

Thank you, Madam President. I also 
want you to know that I think there is 
a growing sense of concern—whether it 
is Senator HATCH, Senator MCCONNELL, 
or a number of other Senators—that 
regardless of how they feel about this 
particular issue with tobacco, the provision 
in such a trade agreement is unacceptable. 
I hope our trade negotiators 
recognize that we are focusing a 
lot of attention on this, and they risk 
putting together a good trade agreement 
that we would all like to get behind 
as a result. 

Thank you, Madam President. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
TILLIS). The Senator from New Hampshire. 


UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2101 

Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, for 50 
years the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund has done amazing work protecting 
our land, waterways, forests, 
State parks, and critical wildlife habitats. 
This is particularly true in New 
Hampshire, where since 1965 LWCF has 
funded more than 650 individual 
projects. Just this month, New Hampshire 
received eight new LWCF grants, 
which will allow New Hampshire communities 
to develop outdoor recreation 
facilities in Dover, which is close to 
where I live, to renovate Osgood Pond 
in Milford, and to do so many other 
projects. 

In the last couple of months, I actually 
had a chance to go around New 
Hampshire and visit so many of these 
projects that were done because of 
LWCF grants. One of the things that 
really struck me about them is that 
they are not for big projects, although 
some have been used toward doing 
that. The Silvio Conte National Wildlife 
Preserve that crosses Vermont and 
New Hampshire is one of those that 
have been preserved, with the help of 
Judd Gregg, a former Republican Senator 
from New Hampshire. LWCF 
helped to preserve that. 

So many of these grants have been 
used for small projects and communities, 
such as Meredith in the Lakes 
Region of New Hampshire on Lake 
Winnipesaukee, where I visited. They 
have been able to expand the park 
along the lake so that people not only 
from Meredith but from across the 
State and other parts of the country 
when they are visiting can come and 
sit and enjoy the water. With those 

projects, they have been able to put in 
new docks so that people can get out 
on the lake on boats and enjoy the 
water. Without LWCF, those projects 
would not have been possible. It gets 
people out into the outdoors who otherwise 
wouldn’t be able to do that. 

Federal and State LWCF funds are 
also vital to the outdoor recreation industry 
in New Hampshire. That is one 
of our biggest industries. It accounts 
for $4.2 billion in consumer spending, 
$1.2 billion in wages and salaries, and 
nearly 50,000 jobs. The importance of 
these projects and the conservation efforts 
that are the result of LWCF to 
the tourism sector of our economy and 
to our outdoor industry cannot be overstated. 


There has been bipartisan support for 
LWCF since its inception back in the 
1960s. There is a bill which Senator 
BURR has introduced and which I am a 
cosponsor of that would extend LWCF 
for 60 days. Unfortunately, last night 
LWCF expired. Its authorization ended 
as of September 30. 

The effort to reauthorize the program, 
to invoke Senator BURR’s bipartisan 
legislation, was defeated. When 
they objected to a simple short-term 
extension of LWCF, our Republican 
friends indicated it was because they 
believed most LWCF funding goes to 
Federal land acquisition. Well, I would 
like the RECORD to reflect that is just 
not the case. I have seen it firsthand in 
New Hampshire in the projects I talked 
about. I would bet the Presiding Officer 
has seen in North Carolina the support 
LWCF has provided. In fact, during the 
last 10 years, LWCF funds have been 
split about 50–50 between Federal agencies 
and States. In New Hampshire, 
what these Federal grants do is to leverage 
State support and private support 
and local support. 

Moreover, most Federal lands that 
are acquired with LWCF funds are 
within the existing boundaries of Federal 
parks, refuges, forests, and other 
recreation areas. Consolidating these 
lands helps to reduce Federal maintenance 
and management costs, saves 
taxpayer dollars, and enhances the experience 
visitors have to these areas. 
For example, in 2014, 39 of 40 LWCF national 
forest acquisitions expanded access 
to property already managed by 
the Federal Government that had been 
previously closed to the public. This is 
not about keeping the public off these 
lands, this is about helping to ensure 
that members of the public can get on 
these lands and benefit from them and 
enjoy them. 

This Senator is very disappointed 
that we have seen a few people blocking 
the extension of this program in a 
way that affects every single State in 
this country. Our failure to act has significant 
consequences for each and 
every State. 

The expiration of this program jeopardizes 
access to public land for hunting 
and fishing, which is one of the 
great benefits we have in New Hampshire 
that we use these lands for. It 

prohibits access to other outdoor activities 
that are important and unique 
to our American heritage. This is going 
to adversely impact our Nation’s outdoor, 
recreation, conservation, and 
preservation economy. In New Hampshire, 
our whole outdoor industry is affected. 
That outdoor industry contributes 
over $1 trillion to our Nation each 
year, and it supports millions of American 
jobs. 

I think it is critical that we pass a 
short-term extension to keep this program 
operating, but ultimately what 
we need to do is to pass a bill that permanently 
reauthorizes and fully funds 
LWCF—something a bipartisan majority 
of this body supports doing. I am 
going to continue working to pass a 
permanent authorization. I know that 
Senator BURR; my colleague from New 
Hampshire, Senator AYOTTE; and other 
people who are on this bill feel the 
same way. 

In the meantime, we should not allow 
LWCF to lapse any longer. So this Senator 
is going to renew a unanimous 
consent request that was made last 
night by my colleague from New Mexico, 
Senator HEINRICH, to pass a 60-day 
extension. 

I recognize that this request is going 
to be objected to by Senator LANKFORD, 
whom I see on the floor, but I just want 
to remind us all that less than 2 weeks 
ago, 53 Senators wrote the Senate majority 
leader urging action to reauthorize 
LWCF. To the 12 Republican Senators 
who signed that letter, I say this: 
I hope you will work with us to correct 
the misconceptions and the 
mischaracterizations that exist about 
this program. Let’s work together so 
we can allow this short-term extension 
to pass. Let’s work together to get a 
long-term reauthorization for the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund because 
LWCF has expanded outdoor opportunities 
in every single State in the country. 


We should come together to support 
the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund, to protect one of America’s most 
essential tools for conservation and 
economic growth. 

With that, Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the Energy and 
Natural Resources Committee be discharged 
from and the Senate proceed 
to the immediate consideration of S. 
2101; and I ask unanimous consent that 
the bill be read a third time and passed 
and the motion to reconsider be laid 
upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 

objection? 

The Senator from Oklahoma. 

Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, reserving 
the right to object, I do object 
to this bill moving forward by unanimous 
consent today. The issue is that 
this bill needs reform. I enjoy our national 
parks. My children enjoy our national 
parks. 

Twenty-nine percent of the United 
States is already under Federal ownership. 
Twenty-nine percent of all of the 
United States is under Federal ownership. 
A significant portion of this—in 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7071 

fact, last year $306 million was spent 
from the LWCF, and $178 million of 
that was for new land acquisition. 

So the bulk of what this program is 
used for is for new land acquisition. 
But the real issue to address here is 
not only what happens if we allow it to 
lapse but what happens with it day to 
day. The day-to-day operation of the 
LWCF is for new land acquisition or for 
putting money into a State grant to be 
able to have them buy new facilities, 
not to maintain them. 

We are not setting aside the money 
to be able to maintain this. We have an 
$11.5 billion deferred maintenance 
backlog at our national parks right 
now. The new additional dollars that 
are used for land acquisition are used 
to be able to pick up new properties 
and not to be able to maintain what we 
currently have. So the challenge that I 
have is this: Why don’t we look at this 
fund in a new way? Why can’t we take 
care of what we already have and not 
just focus on acquiring new properties? 

To leave the LWCF as it currently is 
would be something akin to saying: I 
want to buy a new car, but I don’t want 
to set aside money to actually put gas 
in it. I just want to have the new car. 

Well, if we are going to have that 
property, we better take care of it. 
Currently, the Federal Government is a 
terrible steward of the land we have. 
Now, as far as this program and reauthorizing 
it right now, we checked with 
the Congressional Research Service. If 
this program is not reauthorized currently, 
the program continues. The 
program currently has $20 billion in reserves 
right now—$20 billion. 

Last year, $306 million was spent. 
The year before, $306 million was spent 
in LWCF, meaning in current status, 
right now, if we do not put a single 
dime into LWCF for the next few years, 
we will only have 65 years of reserve 
left in this program. It is not a crisis 
that we need to fix immediately. This 
authorization does not keep the program 
going. This authorization means 
we are not adding new money to the $20 
billion already in reserve. 

I think we have at least 64 years to 
be able to work this out and a 65-year 
reserve. I can’t imagine it would take 
that long, but with the Senate, everything 
seems to take too long. What we 
are looking for is pretty straightforward 
and simple. Let’s spend some 
of these dollars to be able to focus on 
not just buying new properties but on 
actually taking care of properties that 
the U.S. Government has the responsibility 
to actually be able to maintain. 
It is to reform this program in the days 
ahead and to make sure that we are 
managing land well, not just adding 
new land all the time. 

So with that, I do object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection 
is heard. 

The Senator from New Hampshire. 

Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I 
would be all for taking the backlog of 
funding and putting it into LWCF. I 
think my colleague raises some real re


forms that could be made to LWCF. In 
fact, there is legislation in the comprehensive 
energy bill that Senators 
MURKOWSKI and CANTWELL have passed 
that would make some of those reforms. 
But if we can’t get to that, if we 
can’t extend this program in the short 
term, we are never going to get to that 
point. 

The fact is that the backlog of maintenance 
needs should be addressed. But 
it does not make sense for us to suspend 
the program while we address 
those needs. LWCF was not established 
for maintenance purposes. It was established 
to protect natural areas and to 
provide recreation opportunities to the 
American public. 

When I went to the city of Nashua, 
the second largest city in New Hampshire, 
and walked with the Republican 
mayor along the Riverwalk that they 
are trying to establish there, what I 
heard from her was what a critical difference 
LWCF made to the city and 
being able to leverage funds that the 
city put in and that the State could 
put in to help make sure that the people 
of Nashua, many of whom cannot 
get to national parks or to the White 
Mountains in New Hampshire but they 
could get to the Riverwalk through 
downtown Nashua. 

Those are the kinds of projects that 
LWCF goes to help fund. Some 99 percent 
of what Federal agencies spend 
goes to acquire inholds, those pieces of 
land that are already within the boundaries 
of a national park, a national forest 
or a national wildlife refuge that if 
sold to a private developer would block 
public access. It would damage park resources. 
It would harm the visitor experience, 
and it would make it harder 
to maintain those very projects that 
my colleague was talking about wanting 
to maintain. 

So I think, while it sounds simple to 
say there is a backlog and we should 
not reauthorize this program, that is 
only half the story. It is very disappointing 
that with the strong bipartisan 
support this legislation has, with 
the need to reauthorize it to continue 
to protect special places in the country, 
we are seeing opposition from a 
very few people in this body who are 
able to block our moving forward. 

NOMINATION OF GAYLE SMITH 

Mr. President, I would like to, if I 
could, move on to address a different 
issue, and hope we will see some cooperative 
agreement at some point in the 
future. I also want to urge the consideration 
of the nomination of Gayle 
Smith to serve as the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International 
Development, also known as 
USAID. I am here with my colleague 
Senator COONS from the Foreign Relations 
Committee to talk about this 
nominee because this is a noncontroversial 
nominee, a seasoned public 
servant for a position that should be 
above partisanship. 

So it is really disappointing that, 
again, there is only one person in this 
body who is holding this up. This 

comes at a particularly difficult time 
because we are witnessing a humanitarian 
crisis in Syria and across the 
Middle East. It is a crisis that grows 
worse every day. Our European allies 
are struggling to cope with a massive 
refugee and migration crisis without 
precedent since World War II. 

The United States, with our unparalleled 
capacity to mobilize humanitarian 
support for humanitarian relief, 
has played a leading role, but there is 
more that we can do to assist both the 
Syrian refugees and the neighboring 
countries that are hosting them to help 
with that humanitarian crisis. But our 
ability to respond effectively to these 
challenges is hampered by the inability 
of the Senate to vote on Gayle Smith’s 
nomination to lead USAID. 

So, again, nearly 4 months have 
passed since she appeared before the 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
The committee approved her nomination 
by a voice vote in July. But since 
then, there has been no attempt to 
bring her nomination to the Senate 
floor, even as these humanitarian crises 
have deepened and deteriorated. It 
is not only our operations in the Middle 
East that are being hampered, 
USAID currently operates in more 
than 60 countries and regional missions 
around the world. 

Following the devastating earthquake 
in Nepal in April, USAID disaster 
response teams were among the 
first crisis personnel to deploy there to 
organize the humanitarian response. 
USAID personnel continue to support 
our development efforts in Afghanistan. 
Those efforts are critical to the 
long-term success in the country. 
Given the extraordinary humanitarian 
crises confronting the United States, 
confronting our allies in the world, we 
really need a leader in place at USAID. 
It is unconscionable that here we are 4 
months later and she is still being 
stalled. 

Gayle Smith is a superbly qualified 
nominee who will almost certainly be 
confirmed by an overwhelming bipartisan 
vote. The Senate deserves the 
chance to vote on this critical nomination. 
So, again, I urge the majority 
leader to bring her nomination to the 
floor. We discussed it again today in 
the Foreign Relations Committee. I 
know my colleague from Delaware can 
speak also to what we heard in the Foreign 
Relations Committee. 

So I would yield to my colleague 
from Delaware to discuss what we have 
heard in the Foreign Relations Committee 
about Gayle Smith and the need 
to put her in place as leader of USAID. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Delaware. 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, confirmation 
and expiration are issues before us 
today. As we have heard from the 
Member from New Hampshire, the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee, on 
which we both serve, months ago considered 
the nomination of Gayle Smith 
to be the next Administrator of 
USAID. Today, 60 million people 


S7072 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

around the world are displaced, either 
within their countries or as refugees 
spreading throughout the world. 

It is the single greatest refugee crisis 
since the end of the Second World War. 
Gayle Smith came before our committee 
and received commendations 
and plaudits from Republicans and 
Democrats for her long experience as a 
journalist, as a leader in humanitarian 
agencies, as a member of the National 
Security Council, as a cofounder of the 
Modernizing Foreign Assistance Network, 
and as a seasoned and senior 
leader who can help bring strong leadership 
to USAID at this difficult and 
important time. 

Four months later, she has yet to be 
confirmed by this body. We have broad 
bipartisan support for this nominee yet 
fail to move her forward due to a hold 
by one Member. I think this points to 
a longer challenge that this body faces 
because you also heard from the Senator 
from New Hampshire of an attempt 
to move forward the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund, which yesterday 
expired. 

BULLETPROOF VEST PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM 
AND CHILD ADVOCACY CENTERS 

Mr. President, I cannot yield without 
commenting on how hard I worked in 
the previous Congress to get reauthorized 
two critical programs, a bulletproof 
vest partnership program that for 
years provided tens of millions of dollars 
to State and local law enforcement 
for lifesaving bulletproof vests, and a 
reauthorization effort I led for years— 
both of these with bipartisan support— 
to restore authorization to child advocacy 
centers—centers that critically 
support families who have been harmed 
by child abuse and allow local law enforcement 
to pursue effective prosecutions. 


It is unconscionable that this body 
yesterday, September 30, allowed the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund to 
expire, allowed a whole range of child 
nutrition and school lunch authorizing 
programs to expire, and allowed the 
James Zadroga 9/11 first responders act 
to expire. One of the very first bills I 
cosponsored and was proud to support 
as a new Senator 5 years ago was the 
James Zadroga 9/11 first responders 
act, which provides support for those 
who raced to the site of the 9/11 catastrophe, 
risked their lives, and today 
suffer lasting health effects from it. 

The idea that this body allowed that 
funding to expire yesterday and that 
many of the folks who are the beneficiaries 
of that fund now face the extinction 
of their medical support is unacceptable 
to me. So before I yield the 
floor, I simply wanted to commend my 
colleague for raising the issue of Gayle 
Smith’s nomination at this unique 
time of global humanitarian challenges. 


USAID cannot effectively do its job 
without a confirmed leader. I remind 
everybody in this body that when we 
fail to work together, when bills expire, 
it has real consequences, not just 
for humanitarian issues overseas but 

for our own first responders who we are 
pledged to support. I say it is a shame 
on this body that we allowed the 9/11 
James Zadroga first responders act to 
expire, that we allowed the authorizing 
statutes for the summer lunch and 
school lunch programs to expire, and 
that we have allowed the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund to expire. 

It is my hope that we will begin to 
work together in this place and to stop 
allowing nominations to rest for 
months and to stop allowing the expiration 
of valuable statutes that underlie 
our security at home and abroad. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arkansas. 

Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent to speak for up to 5 
minutes, after which point I will be followed 
by the Senator from Montana. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

RUSSIA 

Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, 3 years 
ago when President Obama’s opponent 
said that Russia was our chief geopolitical 
rival, President Obama chuckled 
and said: ‘‘The 1980s called and they 
want their foreign policy back.’’ 

Well, now the 1930s are calling President 
Obama, and they want their foreign 
policy back. Yesterday was the 
anniversary of Munich. How fitting 
that Russia conducted its first major 
military operations outside of its near 
abroad since the end of the Cold War on 
that anniversary in Syria yesterday, 
because the President’s foreign policy 
has invited exactly this kind of provocation 
all around the world. President 
Obama and Secretary Kerry keep saying 
that they don’t know what Russian 
intentions are, that they don’t know 
Russia’s goals are in the region. 

It is very simple. So let me lay it out 
clearly. Russia is an enemy. Vladimir 
Putin is a KGB spy who views the 
world as a zero-sum game. In the short 
term, he intends to prop up his tyrannical 
ally Bashar al-Assad, and he 
wants to preserve access to his expeditionary 
military bases outside of his 
country. 

In the medium term, he wants to either 
preserve Assad or he wants to replace 
him with a like-minded ally. He 
wants to diminish the power and prestige 
of the United States in the region. 
He wants to establish Russia as the 
main Middle East power broker, and he 
wants to divert attention from his continued 
occupation of Ukraine. 

In the long term, he sees an opportunity 
to divide EU and divide NATO 
at lower risk than it would take to 
conduct military operations such as 
Estonia or Latvia. If Europeans are 
going to be divided because of a refugee 
crisis of a few hundred thousand, imagine 
what could happen when Vladimir 
Putin turns up the heat in Syria and 
drives hundreds of thousands or more 
of those refugees into Europe. 

How has this come to pass? Why 
would he think he could get away with 
all of this? Because of the unending se


ries of concessions and appeasement of 
Barack Obama toward Vladimir Putin. 
Before he was even elected to office in 
2008, when Vladimir Putin invaded 
Georgia, Barack Obama—then a can-
didate—called for Georgia to exercise 
restraint while they were under an invasion. 


Just a couple of months later, he 
called for a reset in relations while 
there were still Russian troops on 
Georgian soil. A few months after that, 
he withdrew missile defense systems 
from the Czech Republic and Poland— 
on the 70th anniversary of Russia’s invasion 
of Poland—without so much as 
a heads-up and without getting anything 
in return. 

He entered into the New START 
treaty, which allows Russia to continue 
to grow their nuclear forces or 
requires the United States to reduce 
ours. In a ‘‘hot mic’’ moment, he was 
caught with Dmitry Medvedev, promising 
more flexibility toward Russia 
after the election of 2012. He fought 
tooth and nail against the Magnitsky 
human rights act, only accepting it 
once he realized it had overwhelming 
bipartisan support in Congress. He continues 
to look the other way as Russia 
violates the Intermediate-Range Nuclear 
Forces Treaty. He jumped at the 
opportunity that Vladimir Putin provided 
him in 2013 to avoid carrying out 
his airstrikes in Syria and to enforce 
his own red line. 

Just as in Georgia, when Vladimir 
Putin invaded Crimea, he demanded restraint 
from the government of 
Ukraine. When Vladimir Putin began 
to conduct operations in eastern 
Ukraine, he looked the other way, he 
imposed weak sanctions. To this day, 
he refuses to arm them in the ways 
they are desperately calling for. 

So what should we do now? Again, I 
think it is very simple. Let me lay it 
out. We should make it clear that 
Vladimir Putin and Russia will not be 
a power in the Middle East. We should 
pressure our partners to do the same 
thing. We should establish no-fly zones 
in Syria and make it clear that any 
aircraft that enters those zones will be 
shot down. We should make it clear 
that we will fly where we want and 
when we want, that any aircraft in 
Syria—or, for that matter, in the vicinity 
of a NATO country—that turns on 
the transponder will be shot down as a 
menace to civil aviation and to our allies. 
We should ramp up our airstrikes 
in Syria against our enemies such as 
the Islamic State. We should threaten 
Iran with termination of the nuclear 
deal because they are continuing to 
provide support for Bashar al-Assad. 
We should make it clear that Israel retains 
the right to interdict missile 
shipments from Iran through Syria to 
the terrorist group Hezbollah. 

Let’s not forget about Ukraine and 
Europe. We should arm Ukranian 
forces. We should give them the intelligence 
they need on Russian forces 
and rebels who are amassing on their 
border. We should enhance sanctions 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7073 

by expanding them across all sectors. 
We should move troops to base them— 
at least temporarily, if not permanently—
on our eastern NATO flank in 
places such as Estonia and Latvia. 

Some say these responses will be provocative, 
but where will Putin’s provocations 
end? What is really provocative 
is American weakness. 

Putin is humiliating the United 
States. If we don’t draw a line now and 
enforce it, it will not be a choice between 
humiliation or war; it will be a 
choice between humiliation and war. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana. 

LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND 

Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I do 
wish to go back to the comments of the 
good Senator from New Hampshire on 
the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund, and I want to associate myself 
with those remarks. 

I also wish to add for the record that 
there is a fair amount of this money 
that is spent for land acquisition from 
the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund. That is not a bad thing. Get 
some of the in-holdings out of being in-
holdings. It helps with management, 
and it helps with management costs. 

I will tell you, if you are a fisherman 
or a hunter in this country, access and 
habitat is a huge issue, and the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund is all 
about access for hunters, fishermen, 
bike riders, birdwatchers, and all those 
folks, and habitat for big game and 
fisheries. 

For this fund to expire for the first 
time ever is a travesty. You are right. 
We spent $306 million on it the last 2 
years; we were supposed to have spent 
$900 million in this fund, and that is 
why there is the reserve there is. Quite 
frankly, if you take a look at the 
United States, you take a look at the 
in-holdings, and you take a look at the 
recreational opportunities out there— 
$306 million isn’t enough. Yet this fund 
has expired and is not authorized. 

In Montana alone, just for the record, 
recreational opportunities add $6 billion, 
with a ‘‘b,’’ to our economy. We 
are a State of 1 million people—$6 billion 
to our economy. It employs over 
64,000 people, and that doesn’t count 
the businesses that moved to Montana 
for the recreational opportunities nor 
the people who come to work for those 
businesses for the recreational opportunities. 
I just wanted to get that into 
the RECORD. 

Mr. President, I wish to talk about 
the bill under consideration, the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations bill, and I express my 
opposition to that bill. 

Why? We just heard a presentation 
on the floor a minute ago from the 
Senator who talked about shooting 
down planes and potentially going to 
war. The amount that it costs to take 
care of our veterans is a cost of war, 
and we are underfunding the VA today 
by over $800 million. I express my deep 
disappointment in the majority’s in


ability to recognize the true cost of 
sending this Nation, young men and 
women, into harm’s way. 

Veterans Day is 6 weeks from now. 
Many of the folks in this Chamber will 
go back to their home States where 
they will be attending ceremonies and 
taking photos of men and women who 
are in uniform. We will give speeches 
and talk about our profound gratitude 
to the veterans and their families who 
have sacrificed so much for their country. 


In the meantime, you will see a flurry 
of press statements from Senators, 
oftentimes patting themselves on their 
backs for extending benefits to veterans 
or enhancing the quality and 
timeliness of their care, or you will 
hear Senators and Congressmen lamenting 
on the lack of leadership within 
the VA and taking the VA to task 
for not performing up to their expectations. 
But there is one thing many of 
those Members of Congress will not do, 
and that is give the VA the resources it 
needs to serve the men and women who 
have served this country and the military. 


Right now, the VA is under greater 
demand for services and subject to a 
higher degree of accountability than 
any other time in this Department’s 
history. After a decade of war in the 
Middle East, that demand should be expected 
to be high. After recent allegations 
of mismanagement and wrongdoing, 
that accountability is absolutely 
warranted, but the standard we 
are holding the VA to should be the 
standard we hold ourselves to. 

Is Congress doing the very best that 
it can do to ensure our Nation’s veterans 
can access the health care and 
the benefits they have earned? Given 
the appropriations bill before us, the 
answer to that question is: No, we are 
not. 

Our job is to make sure the VA is 
working for all veterans and to make 
sure it can work for all veterans. That 
means holding the VA accountable and 
ensuring it operates in full transparency, 
but that also means the VA 
has to have the capacity to meet the 
current needs of the demand for its 
services and to meet those demands 
into the future. 

It requires rigorous oversight. Today’s 
President understands that. 
There is no doubt about that, but it 
also requires giving the VA the tools 
and the resources it needs to get the 
job done. 

Let’s be clear. I believe this bill sets 
the VA up for failure. There are folks 
on the other side who are demanding 
that the VA fix itself, but in order to 
fix itself, we have to give it the tools it 
needs to do that. We are refusing to do 
that in this bill. We are setting up the 
VA for failure, and that failure will result 
in failing our veterans. 

If this bill is enacted, it could mean 
that 68,500 fewer veterans are receiving 
the VA medical care they need, including 
veterans such as a constituent of 
mine from Reed Point, MT. This man 

had an eye exam in early February and 
received a prescription for a new pair 
of glasses. He was told he would receive 
them in 4 to 6 weeks, but due to a large 
backlog, he did not receive them until 
July. It took 5 months to get this man 
glasses. 

How are we going to improve the 
quality of care for veterans if the VA 
budget isn’t where it needs to be? 

Take the story of Perry, who is 67 
years old. He has a 100-percent service 
disability due to Agent Orange exposure 
in Vietnam. He relies on the VA 
for lifesaving cancer treatment. Without 
chemotherapy and specialty care, 
Perry’s prognosis is not good. To make 
matters worse, the VA can approve 
only six appointments at a time, which 
is a real challenge for Perry because he 
is receiving treatment 5 days a week. 
So every week he has to fill out another 
round of paperwork to qualify for 
medical care. 

These are real folks who served their 
county. They are veterans who have 
real issues with the VA today at current 
funding levels. 

Do we think these problems are going 
to be easier to solve if we give them an 
underfunded budget? They won’t be. 

Over the last 14 years, we fought 2 
wars in the Middle East. Almost 10,000 
Americans are still involved in a fight 
in Afghanistan at this very moment. 
For them, this war is far from over, 
and for many people in this Chamber— 
some who led us into the war in Iraq— 
they refuse to admit these are also the 
true costs of war, taking care of our 
veterans. 

When we send young men and women 
over there and we put these wars on 
America’s credit card as we did—financed 
by China, Japan, and others— 
we do not bother to factor in what it 
would cost to meet their health care 
and educational requirements when 
they come back home. Honoring our 
commitment to veterans is a cost of 
war and one that we should never forget 
about. Those who came home are 
now suffering from physical wounds 
but also wounds we cannot see. As I 
said yesterday, at least 22 veterans are 
taking their own lives every single day, 
and $1 billion less won’t help the VA 
get these men and women back on 
their feet and give them the mental 
health care that they need. 

The VA also faces unprecedented demand 
for new treatments of diseases 
such as hepatitis C, which are shorter 
in duration, with fewer side effects, and 
that have cure rates—and this is very 
good news—approaching 100 percent, 
but they cost money. As Vietnam veterans 
reach retirement age, that means 
that nearly half of this Nation’s veteran 
population will be 65 years of age 
or older. They are entitled to their VA 
care. After all, they have earned it, and 
they are going to need more and more 
of that care in the years ahead. 

My home State of Montana has the 
second highest per capita veterans population 
in this country. It is a rural 
State where distance poses a major obstacle 
to care. The Choice Act that we 


S7074 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

passed and enacted last year was designed 
to address many of those obstacles 
that rural veterans face. 

The VA is also working to establish 
residency programs in rural States to 
encourage rural medical providers to 
locate in those rural States. We need to 
build off of these efforts and work to 
ensure they are carried out as we intended 
and as the veterans deserve. 

Will cutting pay for VA providers 
help bring more medical professionals 
to Montana or Alaska or Oklahoma or 
North Carolina? The answer is no. 

I go home nearly every weekend, and 
when I travel around the State, I talk 
to veterans. They tell me that getting 
in the door of that VA can be very frustrating. 
Shortchanging the VA’s medical 
facilities doesn’t solve that problem. 
Not allowing the VA to hire more 
doctors and nurses doesn’t solve that 
problem. 

So today we need to fix this bill because 
the folks who sacrificed so much 
for this country deserve nothing less. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I ask unanimous 
consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I yield 
back all time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, all time is yielded back. 

CLOTURE MOTION 

Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays 
before the Senate the pending cloture 
motion, which the clerk will state. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 
CLOTURE MOTION 
We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance 
with the provisions of rule XXII of the 
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby 
move to bring to a close debate on the motion 
to proceed to calendar No. 98, H.R. 2029, 
an act making appropriations for military 
construction, the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2016, and for other 
purposes. 
Mitch McConnell, Orrin G. Hatch, Thom 
Tillis, Tom Cotton, James Lankford, 
Shelley Moore Capito, Deb Fischer, 
Thad Cochran, John Barrasso, John 
Cornyn, Richard C. Shelby, Cory Gardner, 
Richard Burr, Jerry Moran, Jeff 
Flake, Steve Daines. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unanimous 
consent, the mandatory quorum 
call has been waived. 

The question is, Is it the sense of the 
Senate that debate on the motion to 
proceed to H.R. 2029, an act making appropriations 
for military construction, 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
and related agencies for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2016, and for 
other purposes, shall be brought to a 
close? 

The yeas and nays are mandatory 
under the rule. 

The clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk called the roll. 

Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators 
are necessarily absent: the Senator 
from Texas (Mr. CRUZ), the Senator 
from South Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM), the 
Senator from Arizona (Mr. MCCAIN), 
the Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO), 
and the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. 
VITTER). 

Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the 
Senator from California (Mrs. BOXER) 
is necessarily absent. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
HOEVEN). Are there any other Senators 
in the Chamber desiring to vote? 

The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 50, 
nays 44, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 273 Leg.] 
YEAS—50 

Alexander Enzi Murkowski 
Ayotte Ernst Paul 
Barrasso Fischer Perdue 
Blunt Flake 

Portman 
Boozman Gardner 

Risch 
Burr Grassley 

Roberts 
Capito Hatch 

Rounds 

Cassidy Heller 

Sasse

Coats Hoeven 

Scott

Cochran Inhofe 

Sessions

Collins Isakson 

Shelby

Corker Johnson 

Sullivan

Cornyn Kirk 
Cotton Lankford 

Thune 

Tillis 
Daines McConnell 

Crapo Lee 

Toomey 
Donnelly Moran Wicker 

NAYS—44 

Baldwin Heitkamp Peters 
Bennet Hirono Reed 
Blumenthal Kaine Reid 
Booker King Sanders 
Brown Klobuchar 

Schatz 
Cantwell Leahy 

Schumer 
Cardin Manchin 

Shaheen 

Carper Markey 

Stabenow

Casey McCaskill 

Tester

Coons Menendez 

Udall

Durbin Merkley 

Warner

Feinstein Mikulski 

Warren

Franken Murphy 
Gillibrand Murray 

Whitehouse 

Wyden

Heinrich Nelson 

NOT VOTING—6 

Boxer Graham Rubio 
Cruz McCain Vitter 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this 
vote, the yeas are 50, the nays are 44. 

Three-fifths of the Senators duly chosen 
and sworn not having voted in the 
affirmative, the motion is rejected. 

The Senator from Georgia. 

Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, I rise to 
speak about the Military Construction 
and Veterans Affairs and related agencies 
appropriations bill. I am very encouraged 
that has finally come before 
the U.S. Senate. I also wish to remind 
my colleagues that the Senate Appropriations 
Committee has put forward 12 
appropriations bills that reflect the 
priorities of the American people and 
the budget we passed in April. 

Let me remind my colleagues that 
budget took $7 trillion out of the President’s 
proposed budget over the next 10 
years. Yet here we are today, in October, 
facing the reality that since April 
we have not been able to debate on this 
floor those 12 appropriations bills. You 
have heard all year that we need to get 
back to regular order, and that means 
the Senate needs to bring up and debate 
each of these 12 bills individually. 

However, due to Democratic obstructionism, 
the Federal Government is operating 
under a short-term funding 
measure, and the Senate has not been 
able to debate any of these 12 funding 
bills. 

It is time for the political posturing 
to stop. People back home don’t understand. 
I don’t either. Senate Democrats 
are again acting as a roadblock in preventing 
progress. The American people 
sent us to govern responsibly, and it is 
time for Senate Democrats to start living 
up to this expectation, particularly 
when it comes to funding our government. 


In this vote today, Senate Democrats 
are blocking us from moving forward 
with a bill to fund military construction 
projects that help our troops and 
support key veterans programs, many 
of which need reform after being 
plagued by backlogs and scandals for 
years. 

We must make good on our Nation’s 
promise to our veterans and provide 
our troops with the facilities they need 
to work, train, and fulfill the mission 
of the U.S. Armed Forces. Senate 
Democrats just voted against improvements 
to the VA electronic health 
records system so that veterans’ 
records are safely and seamlessly 
accessed among agencies and the private 
sector. They just voted against increased 
transparency for the VA disability 
claims system to reduce the 
backlog for those veterans who need 
help the most. They just voted against 
much needed oversight of VA construction 
projects, like the VA hospital in 
Denver, CO, that is over $1 billion over 
budget. Additionally, they just voted 
against construction of the second missile 
defense site in Poland, a project 
that is an important deterrent against 
Russian aggression in Eastern Europe 
and had been previously scrapped by 
President Obama. 

Our Nation is currently dealing with 
a global security crisis. We must take 
recent Russian aggressions and the rise 
of great power traditional rivals very 
seriously. Yesterday Russia launched 
airstrikes in Syria to prop up President 
Bashar Al Assad in a strategy Defense 
Secretary Ash Carter described as 
counterproductive and equated to 
‘‘pouring gasoline on the fire.’’ Clearly, 
we must make sure our troops have the 
resources they need to protect our 
country. Because of that, I am shocked 
that my colleagues across the aisle 
today just voted to delay construction 
for our military facilities—facilities 
our troops depend on to train for current 
conflicts and to prepare for whatever 
the future holds. 

Most appalling of all, Senate Democrats 
voted today to block this bill 
even after we learned that tens of thousands 
of our veterans have died while 
waiting for care they need and deserve. 
This is unconscionable, and the 
brinksmanship we are seeing from Senate 
Democrats across the aisle is totally 
unacceptable. 

Our veterans sacrificed so much for 
our freedom, and our service men and 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7075 

women are currently putting their 
lives in jeopardy every day for us and 
our families. We cannot fail them. This 
bipartisan Federal funding bill does a 
lot of important things for our Nation, 
but most importantly it supports our 
American heroes. Like most of my colleagues, 
I have traveled this year and 
met with our fighting women and men 
on frontlines. The very best of Americans 
are in uniform today, and they deserve 
our full support. 

Today I call on my colleagues across 
the aisle to stop blocking these important 
bills. Let’s get them on the floor 
and negotiate—compromise if we have 
to but get to a conclusion where we can 
fund the men and women defending our 
freedom. We now have 72 days to return 
to regular order and debate these important 
appropriations bills so the priorities 
of our veterans, our military, 
and the American people can once and 
for all be restored. I sincerely hope 
that all the colleagues in this body will 
not disappoint the American people yet 
again. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA


TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 

2016—CONFERENCE REPORT 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask the Chair to lay before the Senate 
the conference report to accompany 
H.R. 1735. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The report 
will be stated by title. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
read as follows: 

The committee of conference on the disagreeing 
votes of the two Houses on the 
amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 
1735), to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2016 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes, having met, have agreed that 
the House recede from its disagreement to 
the amendment of the Senate and agree to 
the same with an amendment and the Senate 
agree to the same, signed by a majority of 
the conferees on the part of both Houses. 

Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to 
consider the conference report. 

(The conference report is printed in 
the House proceedings of the RECORD of 
September 29, 2015.) 

CLOTURE MOTION 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
send a cloture motion to the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The cloture 
motion having been presented 
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the 
clerk to read the motion. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
read as follows: 

CLOTURE MOTION 

We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance 
with the provisions of rule XXII of the 
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby 
move to bring to a close debate on the conference 
report to accompany H.R. 1735, a bill 
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2016 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes. 

John McCain, Bob Corker, John Hoeven, 
Ron Johnson, Dan Sullivan, Steve 
Daines, Richard Burr, Joni Ernst, Deb 
Fischer, Tim Scott, Orrin G. Hatch, 
Shelley Moore Capito, Mike Crapo, 
Tom Cotton, Cory Gardner, Kelly 
Ayotte, Mitch McConnell. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SHOOTING AT UMPQUA COMMUNITY COLLEGE 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, before I 
proceed to the consideration of a colloquy 
with my colleague from Wisconsin, 
I just wanted to take a moment. 
My colleague from Wisconsin 
brought to my attention that there are 
news reports that have just come out 
of a tragic mass shooting at a community 
college in Oregon. I believe it is 
called Umpqua Community College. 

I just wanted to ask all who might be 
watching or are with us in the Chamber 
to keep in your thoughts and prayers 
the families of the victims, which 
number somewhere around 10, and of 
the wounded, somewhere around 20, 
and to also keep the first responders 
and students and faculty and our colleagues 
who represent the State of Oregon 
and all who have been affected by 
this tragedy in Oregon in your 
thoughts and prayers. It is just now 
being reported. 

I appreciate the forbearance of my 
colleague and the Chair and the other 
Members present for my taking a moment 
just to bring that to everyone’s 
attention. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that I might enter into a colloquy 
with my colleague from Wisconsin. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

NATIONAL MANUFACTURING DAY 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I rise 
today to join my colleagues in marking 
National Manufacturing Day, which 
will be celebrated across the country 
tomorrow. 

The simple fact is that manufacturing 
has been and continues to be a 
vital part of our economy. But coming 
from the State of Delaware, I know 
firsthand the challenges manufacturing 
has faced in the 20th century and the 
challenges it continues to face today. 

Almost every day I ride the Amtrak 
train from Wilmington, DE, to Wash


ington, DC, and as I look out the window 
as we pass through the city of 
Newark, DE, I see the site of the old 
Chrysler assembly plant. Each time I 
see it, I think about what it was like 
going to the plant gates and visiting 
with friends and family and the thousands 
of men and women who worked 
shifts for decades at this tremendous 
automobile manufacturing plant that 
made the Durango and, for decades before 
that, other models. 

Every time I see that site, which has 
now been leveled and is now being rebuilt, 
I am reminded that for decades 
there were men and women there who 
had one thing in common—good-paying, 
steady, high-quality manufacturing 
jobs. Chrysler, General Motors, 
and other manufacturers, which used 
to be at the center of my State’s economy, 
each employing thousands of 
Delawareans, are today gone, and 
many families and many of our communities 
still feel the impact of those 
losses. But for the thousands of Delawareans 
who grew up with friends and 
family working every day at GM, 
Chrysler, the steel mill, the Avon plant 
or other now-gone manufacturing sites 
across our State, it is easy to be skeptical 
about the prospects for a revival 
of American manufacturing. 

I am here today with my colleague 
from the State of Wisconsin to tell our 
fellow Americans that despite those 
harsh realities, there are real reasons 
for hope. Manufacturing still supports 
25,000 jobs in my State. Since 2010, our 
economy, the growing American manufacturing 
sector, has created 870,000 
new jobs. As production costs have 
gone up in our competitors—countries 
such as China—and as the key input 
cost of energy has steadily come down, 
businesses have seen over the last decade 
that more reliable financial, legal, 
and engineering structures and resources, 
and cheaper energy here in the 
United States have made American 
manufacturing more competitive than 
it has been in decades. 

Just as important as the number of 
jobs created in the manufacturing sector 
is the quality and compensation for 
those jobs. American manufacturing is 
also responsible today for three-quarters 
of all private sector research and 
development, just illustrating once 
again how innovative this sector has 
always been. To stay ahead and to 
thrive in the modern-world economy, 
manufacturing has to be on the cutting 
edge. 

While American manufacturing is resurgent 
today, there is much more we 
can do together to build on this momentum. 
That is why Senator BALDWIN 
and I are leading a campaign called 
Manufacturing Jobs for America, to 
focus on four key areas where we together 
can strengthen American manufacturing—
first by investing in America’s 
workforce; second, by expanding 
access to capital; third, by opening up 
markets abroad; and fourth, by creating 
the conditions necessary for 
growth. 


S7076 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

In the last Congress, the Manufacturing 
Jobs for America Initiative 
brought together 27 Senators to introduce 
36 different manufacturing bills, 
half of which were bipartisan. Provisions 
from eight of those bills are now 
law, including our bill to create a national 
manufacturing strategy that 
will, for the first time, lay out a 
proactive, comprehensive long-term 
policy for investing and strengthening 
American manufacturing, something 
that all of our major competitors have 
long had. 

The administration has also come 
forward with strong ideas and initiatives 
from their investment in nine 
new manufacturing hubs, innovation 
institutes around the country, to new 
Department of Labor jobs skills programs 
that would strengthen apprenticeships 
and job training. It is our 
hope that Manufacturing Jobs for 
America can continue to play an important 
role in investing and scaling up 
these ideas so they have national impact. 


We are optimistic that we can continue 
together to build on the progress 
we made and pass more of these bills in 
this Congress. Already, for example, 
the Career Ready Act has passed the 
Senate and is waiting to be taken up 
by the House. This bill would help prepare 
students for advanced manufacturing 
jobs by strengthening school 
counseling programs and educator professional 
development. Another important 
bill is the Innovators Job Creation 
Act, which recently passed the Senate 
Finance Committee, and if passed into 
law, would help small manufacturers to 
invest in and scale up their R&D. 

Still, as we know all too well, passing 
legislation is never easy, and it could 
take months or even years to get these 
commonsense bipartisan bills passed 
into law. But there is something Congress 
can do right now to help support 
our manufacturing sector. 

Just last week I stood on this floor 
and urged my colleagues to reauthorize 
the Export-Import Bank that was allowed 
to expire earlier this year. The 
Ex-Im Bank has helped American companies, 
many of them manufacturers, 
to sell their goods around the world for 
more than 80 years, supporting 150,000 
American jobs in just this past year. 
Each day we fail to reauthorize this 
critical tool for American manufacturers 
who are exporters, we put more and 
more American jobs at risk. 

Manufacturers, such as Boeing and 
GE, are already moving good American 
jobs overseas. GE’s announcement that 
it is moving 350 jobs from Wisconsin to 
Canada is a stark example of this new 
reality, and the reason is simple. GE, 
and similar companies, can’t risk staying 
in a country that doesn’t have a reliable 
export credit agency, a tool all 
of our competitors provide, often with 
much more robust resources than Ex-
Im used to enjoy. Without the backing 
of such an agency, other countries 
won’t even consider accepting project 
bids from GE, Boeing or others. I think 

that is unacceptable, and it should be 
unacceptable to all of our colleagues. 
It is time for Congress to recognize 
what is at stake for our economy, our 
manufacturing sector, and American 
workers if we continue to fail to step 
up and reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank. 

Finally, I wish to briefly address a 
broader issue we face with American 
manufacturing, and that is its reputation 
and its public relations image. 

While the changing face of manufacturing 
is a great thing, it is also a challenge 
because too often perceptions 
about manufacturing are stuck in the 
past. I have personally heard from parents 
and guidance counselors who tell 
me that they are reluctant to encourage 
their kids and their best students 
to pursue a career in manufacturing. 
Why? Because to them, folks from an 
older generation, manufacturing brings 
to mind dirty factory floors, dangerous 
work environments, and lower wages. 
Understandably, they don’t see these 
as the viable, promising career paths 
that today’s advanced manufacturing 
truly offers. 

Their worries don’t match up with 
today’s reality, where manufacturing 
jobs require higher skills than ever before, 
from hard math and engineering 
skills to the ability to think critically 
and work as part of a team. Most modern 
manufacturing jobs require a 2-
year college degree, and many require 
more. 

In my 5 years as a Senator, I have 
had the opportunity to visit dozens of 
manufacturers up and down my State 
of Delaware that are creating new 
high-quality, high-paying jobs, and I 
am certain my colleague from Wisconsin 
has had the same insight. 

In Delaware, one of those manufacturers 
is M. Davis, a woman-run, family 
owned manufacturer that has been 
around for over 140 years. They produce 
sophisticated equipment for industrial 
companies, such as Philips 66, Air 
Liquide, and DuPont. Jobs at that 
manufacturing plant require high-
skilled workers. 

Another advanced manufacturer in 
my State is Accudyne, which is far 
more than a typical company. They 
produce products, not for average consumers, 
but they solve highly complex 
engineering and design problems for 
some of the world’s most prominent 
firms, from Boeing to Airbus to Rolls 
Royce. 

Both of these companies understand 
that the only way to remain successful 
is to develop a highly skilled workforce 
by encouraging and supporting professional 
development and recruiting 
graduates from schools such as Delaware 
Technical Community College 
and the University of Delaware. 

Unfortunately, it is not just public 
perception that hasn’t kept up with 
manufacturing’s transformation. Job 
training programs have also lagged behind 
in preparing people with the skills 
they need to succeed in the advanced 
manufacturing jobs of today. 

While I have more I would like to say 
on that topic, at this moment I would 

like to invite my colleague from the 
State of Wisconsin to add her views 
and comments to this important conversation 
about manufacturing in 
America. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Wisconsin. 

Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, 
thank my good friend from Delaware. 
As did he, I wish to start my remarks 
by taking a moment to say that my 
thoughts and prayers are with the community 
of Roseburg, OR, as we heard 
word of yet another senseless act of 
gun violence. I hope all who are listening 
join us in our thoughts and prayers. 

I rise today to join my good friend 
from Delaware and to lend my voice in 
calling attention to an important day 
in America. Tomorrow, across the 
country, the hard-working Americans 
who get up every day to move our 
economy forward will create a collective 
chorus in celebration of National 
Manufacturing Day. 

At thousands of events in villages, 
towns, and cities throughout our Nation, 
manufacturers will open their 
doors Friday and show, in a coordinated 
effort, what manufacturing is 
today and what it isn’t. I am so proud 
to join this effort because by working 
together during and after National 
Manufacturing Day, we can shine a 
spotlight on the need for America to 
address workforce readiness issues, 
connect with future generations, and 
recognize the important role manufacturing 
plays in creating an economy 
that works for everyone. 

In Wisconsin, we have a long and 
proud tradition of making things— 
paper, engines, tools, ships, and, yes, 
cheese, brauts, and beer. We possess 
one of the largest manufacturing sectors 
in the Nation, supporting a very 
significant share of our workforce and 
exporting products and goods all over 
America and, in fact, the world. Manufacturing 
has long been the backbone 
of our ‘‘made in Wisconsin’’ economy— 
so much so that we actually celebrate 
October as Manufacturing Month in 
Wisconsin. In my State and across our 
country, manufacturing is increasingly 
an engine of economic growth and innovation 
and a source of good-paying 
jobs with high wages and solid benefits. 
That is why I strongly believe middle-
class families and small businesses and 
manufacturers who are working so 
hard to move our economy forward deserve 
to have both parties in Washington 
working together to grow our 
manufacturing economy and create 
jobs. 

I am so proud to join my colleague 
Senator COONS on the floor today to 
highlight National Manufacturing Day. 
I thank him for his leadership and his 
partnership on our Manufacturing Jobs 
for America Initiative. Our effort aims 
to build bipartisan support for legislation 
that will modernize America’s 
manufacturing sector and help American 
manufacturers grow and create 
jobs and assist American workers in 
getting the skills they need to succeed 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7077 

in the next generation of manufacturing 
jobs. 

Working together, we are trying to 
do our part to get Washington to focus 
on manufacturing jobs. This shouldn’t 
be a difficult task, but unfortunately 
Congress has shown itself better at 
manufacturing one crisis after another 
instead of working across party lines 
to strengthen American manufacturing. 
The fact is, governing by crisis 
has distracted us from the important 
work of moving our manufacturing 
economy forward. 

Before we all pat ourselves on the 
back for simply doing our job and keeping 
the government open for business, 
let’s address one crisis that has not 
been addressed. 

Two months ago the Senate did its 
job and passed a long-term transportation 
bill with bipartisan support. 
That legislation sought to end this 
constant cycle of short-term measures. 
It put people to work rebuilding our 
roads and bridges and ports and creates 
jobs and will boost our economy. It is 
also important to manufacturers because 
it makes an investment in a 21st-
century American infrastructure that 
provides businesses with the quality 
transportation system they need to 
move their goods to market. 

This legislation also includes another 
measure that is vital to manufacturers 
and businesses in Wisconsin and across 
America. We reauthorized the Export-
Import Bank, which is an important 
tool that helps us create that level 
playing field, bringing fairness to global 
trade and giving American manufacturers 
the resources they need to fight 
and win against their global competition. 
However, after we included that 
in our long-term transportation and infrastructure 
package in the Senate, the 
House adjourned for the August recess 
without passing that legislation to reauthorize 
the Export-Import Bank and 
has failed to take action on it for 2 full 
months. Just this week, Republicans 
on the House Financial Services Committee 
voted in lockstep to block an 
amendment to reauthorize the Bank. 
These actions and inactions have real 
impacts on workers, and they are being 
felt by Wisconsin workers and families 
right now. 

GE Power & Water announced this 
week that it plans to stop manufacturing 
gas engines in Waukesha, WI, 
and blamed the closure on the House of 
Representatives for not reauthorizing 
the Export-Import Bank. It is a stark 
reminder that when Congress fails to 
do its job, hard-working people can lose 
their jobs as a result. It is my hope 
that this reminder will be heard by 
Congress. It is also my hope that National 
Manufacturing Day will provide 
an opportunity for my colleagues to 
rally around on the need for us to come 
together and address the challenges we 
face to grow our manufacturing economy. 


The Wisconsin families for whom I 
work depend on our manufacturing 
jobs, and I believe that if we work to 

give our workers a fair shot, we can 
compete against anyone. But one of the 
challenges we must meet is making 
sure our workers have the skills they 
need for the manufacturing jobs of the 
future. We are fortunate to have a very 
strong technical college system that is 
working to provide Wisconsin businesses 
a skilled workforce so they can 
compete and grow. 

American manufacturing took a huge 
hit as a result of the 2008 financial collapse 
and ensuing recession, but 
through sheer grit and determination, 
we are coming back. U.S. manufacturing 
added 876,000 jobs over the past 
66 months. Over the past 12 months, 
manufacturing has added 124,000 jobs. 
But despite this positive trend, we need 
to do more. The sector needs to add 1.7 
million jobs overall just to return to 
pre-recession levels. 

In Wisconsin, our economy isn’t 
growing as strong as we need to create 
true shared prosperity. In fact, it is 
lagging behind national growth. The 
manufacturing sector that sustained 
our economy in Wisconsin for generations 
must move forward at a stronger 
pace if middle-class families are going 
to get ahead. 

One of the most important things we 
can do is to put a stronger focus on investing 
in STEM programs and career 
and technical education. I am proud to 
have cofounded the Career and Technical 
Education Caucus—otherwise 
known as the CTE Caucus—and worked 
with cochairs Senators KAINE and 
PORTMAN to advocate for career and 
technical education. I believe CTE is 
one of the most effective vehicles for 
responding to labor market changes 
and the workforce readiness needs of 
businesses, particularly our manufacturers. 


We need to do more to ensure that 
students are better trained and better 
equipped for the highly skilled jobs of 
the future, especially in advanced manufacturing. 
Our business communities 
have been clear on the need for a highly 
trained workforce for in-demand 
fields, and CTE provides the knowledge 
and skills that can help drive stronger 
economic growth for our ‘‘made in 
America’’ manufacturing economy. 

In closing, I would like to urge my 
colleagues to join us tomorrow by visiting 
a local manufacturer in their 
State. 

National Manufacturing Day provides 
our Nation with an important opportunity 
for us to show our commitment 
to the idea that manufacturing 
does not represent the jobs of yesterday. 
Senator COONS was talking about 
the branding issues. Well, today’s manufacturing 
economy isn’t your father’s 
manufacturing economy, and today’s 
factory isn’t your grandfather’s factory. 
It is a growing industry that has 
changed from the assembly lines of the 
past to high-tech innovation that will 
drive our future. Today, American 
manufacturing represents the jobs of 
tomorrow, providing a range of job opportunities 
in the area of skilled pro


duction, information technology, design, 
engineering, and science. Our 
next generation of manufacturers need 
more skilled workers, and it is our job 
to work together to make sure our 
economy has them. 

Let’s join together and celebrate National 
Manufacturing Day and show 
that our commitment is a celebration 
of American manufacturing, and let’s 
inspire the next generation of manufacturers. 


Again, I thank my colleague from 
Delaware and my colleague from Minnesota 
for their dedication to this vital 
issue. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Delaware. 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I thank 
my colleague from Wisconsin, Senator 
BALDWIN, for her hard work on manufacturing 
and for her deep and broad 
experience in what it takes for manufacturing 
to continue to grow in the 
State of Wisconsin, in the State of 
Delaware, and across our country. 

Let me pick up on a theme through 
both of our previous comments, which 
is that skills are a key challenge for 
us. If we are going to take advantage of 
the enormous opportunities, the hundreds 
of thousands of unfilled jobs in 
this sector, one of the key issues is a 
mismatch in skills. 

One other theme across both of our 
comments was how we can’t work together 
across the aisle. Bad things happen, 
such as the Export-Import Bank 
going unauthorized, but when we can 
team up and work together, we can 
make remarkable progress. 

Let me briefly reference two of the 
bills we have worked on in the past 
which enjoy strong bipartisan support 
and which I hope can move forward in 
this Congress. 

One is the Manufacturing Skills Act, 
and the lead sponsor is Senator AYOTTE 
of New Hampshire. It would help cities 
and States to modernize their job-
training programs and equip workers 
with the skills they need. 

Another bill, the Manufacturing Universities 
Act of 2015, of which Senator 
LINDSEY GRAHAM is the lead cosponsor, 
would designate 25 manufacturing universities 
across the country and invest 
up to $5 million per year, per school to 
redesign their engineering programs so 
they are focused on the needs of modern 
manufacturing. 

Many of the other ideas that have 
been brought to the floor by colleagues 
also focus on skills, and let me briefly 
reference two. 

Senator MERKLEY has drafted and introduced 
the BUILD Career and Technical 
Education Act to focus on some 
of the issues the Senator from Wisconsin 
was just speaking to—finding 
innovative ways to improve CTE education 
in our K–12 system to draw more 
talented students into the pipeline for 
these unfilled but lucrative manufacturing 
careers. 

Last but certainly not least, Senator 
FRANKEN of Minnesota has tirelessly 
worked to promote greater cooperation 


S7078 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

between community colleges and their 
local manufacturing partners. I know 
in a moment he will share with us his 
vision for how we can improve skills 
training in manufacturing. 

Let me close by simply saying that 
tomorrow, as we celebrate National 
Manufacturing Day, I will be honored 
to welcome U.S. Commerce Secretary 
Penny Pritzker to Delaware to look at 
and visit several of the manufacturers 
I mentioned—Accudyne and M. Davis— 
and to talk about how, working together 
at the State and the Federal 
level, private sector and public sector, 
we can create and maintain strong 
21st-century manufacturing jobs. 

We see the revitalization that is 
going on in American manufacturing, 
and we see the opportunity we have in 
front of us and we want to seize it. By 
enacting bipartisan bills that tackle 
the challenges I have discussed, we 
hope to have the opportunity to make 
the very difference our Nation requires. 

With that, I yield the floor to the 
Senator from Minnesota for his remarks 
on National Manufacturing Day. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Minnesota. 

Mr. FRANKEN. Mr. President, I 
thank the good Senator from Delaware 
and the Senator from Wisconsin for organizing 
today’s celebration of manufacturing. 


As my colleague from Delaware mentioned 
and as I think the Presiding Officer 
knows, I have talked a lot about 
the role of community and technical 
colleges and training for students for 
highly skilled jobs in manufacturing, 
and I will talk about that role in these 
remarks. 

SHOOTING AT UMPQUA COMMUNITY COLLEGE 

But first, I heard a few minutes ago 
about a shooting at a college in Oregon. 
I just want to say something 
about that. 

First, all of our hearts in the Senate 
go out to the victims of that shooting 
at Umpqua Community College in Oregon 
and to their families, their 
friends, and loved ones. 

Students at community colleges are 
often young people who are getting 
education to prepare them for the future. 
Very often they are people 
midcareer who are going back for 
training to get the kind of skills Senator 
COONS talked about in a new career. 
The resurgence of manufacturing 
in the United States and my State of 
Minnesota should inspire us to invest 
more in training more Americans for 
these good manufacturing jobs. 

I don’t know what the focus of Ump-
qua is, but again I believe I speak for 
everyone in this body that our hearts 
go out to all the victims and their 
loved ones. I don’t know whether they 
are like some community and technical 
colleges in Minnesota preparing 
individuals for jobs in manufacturing. 

NATIONAL MANUFACTURING DAY 

Manufacturing jobs—we have heard 
my other colleagues talk about how 
these are not the old manufacturing 
jobs. I have heard a manufacturer refer 

to it as dark, dirty, and dangerous, and 
it is what a lot of people think of. 

I go to junior highs and high schools 
with manufacturers to talk about the 
high skills and the high-paying jobs 
that go with today’s manufacturing. 
The most recent data available as of 
2010, the average annual wage for a 
manufacturing job in the United States 
was over $56,000—about 22 percent higher 
than the average wage for all industries. 
In Minnesota, manufacturing 
supports jobs for more than 300,000 
Minnesotans. That is about 13 percent 
of the jobs in our State, and manufacturing 
is responsible for 14 percent of 
the GDP. Manufacturing is a huge driver 
in our economy. We manufacture 
great things. We did the HVAC system 
for the new World Trade Center Freedom 
Tower. 

This is why I want to talk about one 
of the greatest problems our manufacturing 
States have today; that is, the 
skills gap. Manufacturers cannot find 
enough skilled workers to help them 
compete in a global economy. According 
to Enterprise Minnesota, an organization 
that supports manufacturers in 
my State, there are over 6,500 open 
manufacturing jobs in Minnesota waiting 
to be filled. My experience talking 
with manufacturers confirms that they 
are desperate to hire good people with 
the right skills for jobs that can support 
a middle-class life for workers and 
their families. 

In the words of just one manufacturer, 
Kimberly Arrigoni of Haberman 
Machine in Oakdale, MN: 

We are still suffering from a skills gap. . . . 
For my company specifically, it no longer is 
a capacity issue because of equipment, but 
one with people. We are limited in what we 
can produce and ship out the door because 
we don’t have enough master level machinists. 
. . . Imagine what this very ripple effect 
is causing my State and our country as a 
whole. 

So how can we help our manufacturing 
industry meet this challenge? 
Well, we took a good first step last 
year when we passed the bipartisan 
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
Act, WIOA. It was the first reauthorization 
of the Workforce Investment 
Act in over a decade—almost two. It 
modernized our workforce development 
system and improved coordination between 
workforce boards, education, 
training programs, and local businesses. 
I think we need to do more to 
go further, and that is why I will be reintroducing 
legislation very soon to increase 
Federal investment in workforce 
training partnerships between 
employers and community and technical 
colleges. 

I call it the Community College to 
Career Fund Act. It would create 
grants that help businesses and community 
colleges train workers for high-
skill, good-paying jobs. Businesses and 
community and tech colleges across 
my State support the Community College 
to Career Fund Act because they 
know firsthand—and I have seen firsthand 
the differences that these programs 
can make. Under this program, 

community colleges and businesses together 
would apply for grants based on 
how many jobs their partnership would 
create, what the value of those jobs 
would be to the community and, very 
importantly, how much skin in the 
game the State, the community or the 
businesses have. 

I hope my colleagues will take this 
up and pass it this year. This is a great 
way to address a number of things such 
as the cost of college. I have talked to 
so many manufacturers who have hired 
someone who has just a credential from 
a community technological college, 
hires them and then pays them to go 
back to school while they are working, 
and pays for their tuition to finish 
their associate’s degree. They bring 
them back and say: Go get your bachelor’s 
degree. Go get your 4-year college 
degree while you are working, and 
I will pay for it. These are—time and 
time again, I have seen people, workers 
who have had their education paid for, 
no debt, a couple degrees, and a good 
job—a very good job. 

I would like to close with the words 
of John Johnston from States Manufacturing 
in Golden Valley, CO. He 
writes: 

When my son was young he used to say, 
‘‘My daddy works with big machines that go 
boom, boom, boom.’’ My son is now 17 years 
old and planning a career in manufacturing. 
He grew up around those machines that go 
boom. 

Unfortunately, most students these 
days think manufacturing is not for 
them. If they could only get in to see 
how remarkable it is to see how things 
are really made, they would change 
their perspective. 

He goes on: 

Each night at dinner we talk about his 
‘‘high of the school day’’ and he is so excited 
to tell me about the new equipment or his 
next project in manufacturing class. Now it 
is time to light that fire inside of other students 
and show them today’s manufacturing 
companies are a great place to have a career. 

A great place to have a career. This 
story illustrates perfectly why promoting 
manufacturing careers with 
young people is so important. We have 
a lot of advantages in this country because 
of natural gas. We have cheap energy 
relative to the rest of the world. 
Because of the nature of manufacturing, 
the main cost now is the technology, 
and low-skilled wages are a 
much smaller piece. What this country 
needs are high-skilled wages. We need 
more people, more young people especially, 
to take advantage of the opportunities 
available in manufacturing so 
we will continue to compete globally 
and expand as we compete globally. 

Thank you, Mr. President. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CASSIDY). 
The majority whip. 

OBSTRUCTION 

Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I continue 
to read in the newspaper and the 
press—particularly that which covers 
our activities in Congress—talk about 
the shutdown that was averted because 
we were able to pass a continuing resolution 
before the midnight end of the 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7079 

fiscal year on Wednesday night. I 
would like to reflect just a few minutes 
on what the cause of this drama is and 
where the responsibility actually lies 
for all of this shutdown drama, which 
would be completely unnecessary if the 
Senate and the Congress were permitted 
to basically do our job. 

For example, just this afternoon our 
Democratic friends decided to filibuster 
legislation that would help our 
veterans and our men and women in 
uniform because it would fund the full 
range of services to veterans and the 
construction of military facilities. If 
you think about that for a moment, it 
becomes even more outrageous because 
the idea that in order to force this side 
of the aisle to the table, in order to 
spend more money and raise taxes, 
that you would hold our veterans and 
our military hostage is really remarkable, 
certainly nothing to be proud of, 
and something that needs to be called 
out and identified for what it is. 

The only reason we have had to go 
through this process on a continuing 
resolution—and, by the way, for those 
who are not familiar with the continuing 
resolution, what that means is 
we are continuing for a period of time 
now—until December 11—the current 
spending policies of the Federal Government. 
That means we are side-stepping 
the Appropriations Committee, 
where outdated or obsolete programs 
are discarded or if there are multiple 
government programs that could be 
consolidated that could be made more 
effective or efficient, or if, heaven forbid, 
we could actually save some 
money and apply it to priorities or 
maybe help reduce our deficit—that is 
where that should be happening, but 
the obstruction of our friends across 
the aisle who are dead set on forcing us 
to the negotiating table so they can 
force the Federal Government to spend 
more money is outrageous. 

We have had two previous votes on 
the Defense appropriations bill, which 
is even more immediately directed to 
help support our families and the men 
and women in uniform, many of whom 
are serving in harm’s way. It is amazing 
to me how many people will come 
to the Senate floor or in the other 
body, the House of Representatives, 
and talk about their devotion and dedication 
to our military and our veterans—
and they should. Our military 
and our veterans deserve our devotion 
and appreciation and every honor we 
can bestow on them. But the idea that 
you would on one hand talk like that 
and then come to the floor and block 
legislation that funds their paycheck 
or pays for their benefits if they are a 
veteran and keeps the commitment we 
have made to them—it really is outrageous 
and is just another reason why 
the American people—everybody outside 
of the beltway—hold Congress and 
Washington in such low regard. We are, 
after all, a self-governing people, and 
when people hold their government in 
low regard and lose confidence in their 
government, basically they lose con


fidence in themselves and in our country 
and in our ability to control our 
destiny or at least try to point us in a 
better direction. 

Earlier on, I believe it was the senior 
Senator from New York who gave an 
interview to the New York Times. He 
talked about the fact that the Democrats 
were going to have a ‘‘filibuster 
summer,’’ and now that has sort of 
slopped over into a filibuster fall, apparently. 
Why? For what reason? What 
is the good reason? Well, it is not for a 
good reason, but it is for this reason: so 
they can force Republicans, the majority, 
to the negotiating table to spend 
more money. 

Then there is the White House. There 
is no leadership out of the White House 
on fiscal matters whatsoever. This 
morning the White House threatened 
to veto this very bill, assuming it 
would pass the Congress. Again, why? 
Well, because it complies with the current 
law and budgetary restrictions 
under the Budget Control Act. You 
might ask, well, why are they offended 
by that? Why is that a problem? Well, 
that is a good question, actually, because 
the President himself signed the 
Budget Control Act into law, and the 
very caps on spending that have kept 
discretionary spending at 2007 levels 
are caps he signed into law. 

The idea that you would hold our 
troops and veterans hostage is incredible. 
Why? Because the President and 
the minority, the Democrats, refuse to 
adhere to budget spending caps the 
President signed into law. 

You know, we hear a lot of discussion 
about these caps and sequestration. 
These are the automatic spending caps 
on discretionary spending. They were 
actually proposed by the President and 
his team at the White House in the 
first place. So it would require a certain 
degree of cognitive dissonance or 
maybe willing suspension of disbelief 
to read over the White House’s veto 
threat on this particular bill and to 
take it seriously. 

We are going to continue to press our 
Democratic colleagues to return this 
body to what we like to call regular 
order around here—in other words, 
doing our job, what we were elected to 
do. 

This whole idea of holding our troops 
and veterans hostage in order to force 
more government spending is beyond 
outrageous. With everything happening 
in the world, I don’t doubt it is hard for 
this message to penetrate, but the reason 
we continue to operate on continuing 
resolutions and temporary 
patches, such as the one that was just 
passed that goes to December 11, is because 
of the obstruction on the other 
side of the aisle, these filibusters. 

We have a lot of work cut out for us 
by that December 11 deadline. Before 
that deadline, we have to deal with an 
expiring highway bill. We passed a 
multiyear highway bill here in the Senate 
and sent it to the House. My hope 
is that they will use this time up until 
October 29 to pass a highway bill and 

that we can get to a conference and 
work out the differences and settle 
that one important piece of business. I 
come from a big State. We need those 
resources in order to maintain and 
build our highway system, for public 
safety, for the environment, and for 
the economy. So I hope we can get that 
done. 

We are going to have another big 
drama here as a result of the Democrats 
filibustering these appropriations 
bills called an Omnibus appropriations 
bill. In other words, what is set up to 
happen as a result of the obstruction 
on the other side of the aisle by blocking 
all of these appropriations bills is 
we are going to have to consider all of 
the funding for the Federal Government 
for perhaps the next year. We are 
going to have to vote on that one big 
bill—probably $1 trillion or more—in 
December. That is a horrible way to do 
business. First of all, it is not transparent. 
Our constituents cannot hope 
to read that legislation and understand 
all of the ramifications of it and what 
it might mean. It also, frankly, is susceptible 
to being larded with things 
that really aren’t necessary, that 
would not pass under other circumstances 
but are put on a must-pass 
piece of legislation. 

So you are going to hear more drumbeats—
I will close with this—about 
shutdowns and cliffs and the irresponsibility 
of Congress in not meeting our 
basic obligations. There is one reason 
for that under the present circumstances; 
it is because our Democratic 
friends have chosen to filibuster 
and to stop the Senate from doing its 
business the way we should be doing 
our business in an orderly, transparent, 
responsible, and accountable sort of 
way. The way we do that is by taking 
up individual appropriations bills and 
passing them. If we did it that way, 
there would be no government shutdown 
drama if one or two appropriations 
bills did not get passed for some 
reason, if there was some delay. So this 
is really the source of all of this shutdown 
drama—the obstruction of our 
Democratic colleagues, preventing us 
from doing our basic business of governing 
and making sure we are doing 
what we promised to do when each of 
us stood for election in front of our 
voters. 

I see the junior Senator from Montana 
is here. I know one of the things 
that motivated many of our new Senators 
is the desire to come here and put 
our fiscal house in order. We are not 
even talking about doing some of the 
things we should do, some of the things 
we need to do to reduce the deficit—the 
difference between what we spend and 
what comes in—much less the debt, 
which is in the $18 trillion range, which 
is unbelievable. 

So these young men and women who 
are serving as pages—we are leaving 
behind for them a financial burden 
which is simply immoral. It is just not 
right. The promises that were made 
back when Social Security and Medicare 
were passed—that they would be 


S7080 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

there for you in your later years—I 
have not met a young person today 
who thinks Social Security or Medicare 
is going to be there for them because, 
frankly, they are going to run 
out of money on the current path they 
are on. 

So we have a lot to do. Believe me, 
the country is upset. People are angry. 
They are scared. They are worried 
about their families and about their future. 
They are worried about their security. 
When they look at the TV set 
or read the newspaper and see how a 
willful minority can simply shut down 
our ability to do our job and conduct 
the Nation’s business, their anger and 
their frustration and their fear are justified. 


We can do better. I hope and pray we 
will. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Montana. 

REMEMBERING JEAN TURNAGE 

Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I rise 
today in recognition of Jean Turnage, 
the former Montana Supreme Court 
chief justice and a State senate president 
who passed away earlier this 
week. 

Chief Justice Turnage was a true 
public servant who always put Montana 
and this Nation first. He is remembered 
as a fair and tolerant judge 
and a true gentleman legislator. As 
both a legislator and judge, he had a 
genius for solving conflicts and bridging 
differences—a quality that is far 
too rare in public service. 

Chief Justice Turnage was part of a 
dying breed of the ‘‘greatest generation’’ 
and was a true statesman. As a 
World War II veteran, a State legislator, 
and chief justice of the Montana 
Supreme Court, Justice Turnage truly 
exemplified our State’s strong legacy 
of service. His passing is a great loss 
for Montana. 

On behalf of all Montanans, I wish to 
recognize Jean for his decades of service 
to Montana and to this Nation. Our 
thoughts and prayers are with the 
Turnage family during this time of 
loss. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Iowa. 

(The remarks of Mr. GRASSLEY pertaining 
to the introduction of S. 2123 
are printed in today’s RECORD under 
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and 
Joint Resolutions.’’) 

Mr. GRASSLEY. I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

RELIGIOUS LIBERTY 

Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, last week 
I came to the floor to speak on the subject 
of religious liberty in America. I 

explained why religious liberty matters, 
why it is important, and why it 
deserves special protection from government 
interference. 

I also used my remarks to welcome 
Pope Francis to Washington and to recognize 
the historic nature of his visit. 
I was struck by the Pope’s emphasis on 
religious liberty while he was here and 
by his concern for the state of religious 
liberty, not just around the world, but 
in the United States as well. 

In his address at the White House, 
Pope Francis said that many American 
Catholics are ‘‘concerned that efforts 
to build a just and wisely ordered society 
respect . . . the right to religious 
liberty,’’ and he called on all Americans 
to ‘‘be vigilant . . . to preserve 
and defend [religious] freedom from everything 
that would threaten or compromise 
it.’’ 

Before Congress, Pope Francis, spoke 
of the delicate balance required to 
combat violence and extremism while 
at the same time safeguarding religious 
liberty. And in Philadelphia, he 
declared that the right of religious exercise 
extends well beyond the church 
door. He said: 

Religious freedom certainly means the 
right to worship God, individually and in 
community, as consciences dictate. But religious 
liberty, by its nature, transcends 
places of worship and the private sphere of 
individuals and families. 

Like Pope Francis, I too am concerned 
about threats to religious freedom 
in the United States. Last week, I 
announced my intention to give a series 
of speeches on the subject of religious 
liberty, and I continue with that 
purpose today by speaking about the 
history of religious liberty in America. 

As my remarks will show, concern 
for religious liberty has been a critical 
feature of our Nation from the beginning. 
The desire to enjoy the freedom 
to live one’s faith was a motivating 
factor for many of our earliest settlers. 
Once here, they set about creating societies 
in which religion could have full 
room to flourish. At times they fell 
prey to the same sectarian 
narrowmindedness that bedeviled the 
nations of Europe, but on the whole our 
forebears enjoyed and permitted a 
broader range of religious freedom than 
could be found most anywhere in the 
world or the planet at that time. 

As the heirs of their efforts, we have 
the obligation to continue their commitment 
to religious liberty. Freedom 
of religion is part of the very fabric of 
our Nation. It is not only enshrined in 
the text of our First Amendment, it 
also permeates our history, our very 
identity as a nation. Protecting and 
promoting freedom of religion is at the 
heart of the American project. 

Let’s begin at the beginning. The 
first permanent European settlers here 
in America were Pilgrims seeking to 
escape religious oppression. Leaders 
such as John Winthrop guided Puritans 
and other groups of Pilgrims from Europe 
to the New World in search of a 
place where they could practice their 

religious beliefs according to their own 
conscience. 

The Pilgrims’ journey to Massachusetts 
Bay is considered such an important 
part of the American story that a 
mural depicting the embarkation of 
the Pilgrims hangs in the Rotunda of 
the U.S. Capitol. This great painting 
stands as a symbol and constant reminder 
of America’s place as a safe 
harbor for those seeking religious liberty. 


Following the success of the Puritans, 
other religious minorities, including 
the Quakers, Congregationalists, 
Baptists, Jews, Methodists, Presbyterians, 
and a host of German and 
Dutch sects, came to the American 
Colonies to practice their faith in 
peace. Unfortunately, many of these 
minorities did not find the religious 
tolerance they had hoped for. The Massachusetts 
Bay Colony, for example, 
punished heretics and adopted the Old 
World view that nonadherence to the 
state religion was a crime against the 
state. True to the American ideal, however, 
these religious minorities did not 
give in. Instead, they pressed on in 
search of new locales where the promise 
of religious freedom could be found 
full bloom. 

Roger Williams, the founder of the 
first Baptist church in America, was 
among the most notable dissenters 
from religious orthodoxy. Williams believed 
that the church in Massachusetts 
was not sufficiently separated 
from the church of England and openly 
questioned the legitimacy of the Colony’s 
charter. 

Forced to flee his home in Boston for 
fear of being arrested, Williams found 
refuge among the Natives. He went on 
to purchase land from the Massasoit 
tribe and established a new settlement 
that he gave the rather auspicious 
name ‘‘Providence.’’ A few years later, 
Providence and several other communities 
joined together to form the 
Rhode Island Colony—the first Colony 
in the New World—to offer religious 
liberty to all sects. Citizens in Rhode 
Island could attend the church of their 
choice without fear of government reprisal. 


Mr. President, we see in the founding 
of Rhode Island the seed of the idea 
that all people should be free to practice 
their faith. If Massachusetts represented 
the flight of persecution, then 
Rhode Island constituted the next step 
in the path toward religious freedom— 
the extension of free exercise. 

Rhode Island was not the only safe 
harbor in the New World for religious 
minorities. There was also Pennsylvania, 
which was named for William 
Penn, a Quaker. English authorities 
imprisoned Penn in the Tower of London 
for writing pamphlets critical of 
the Church of England. After he was released, 
Penn established the Pennsylvania 
Colony as a refuge for practitioners 
of his own Quaker faith. 

Another example is the Dutch Colony 
of New Netherland, later known as New 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7081 

Amsterdam and today known as New 
York. When New Amsterdam was 
founded in 1625, its Articles of Transfer 
assured New Netherlanders that they 
could ‘‘keep and enjoy the liberty of 
their consciences in religion.’’ No city 
better symbolizes the religious diversity 
of America than New York City, 
which should be unsurprising given 
that New York was one of America’s 
earliest havens of religious liberty and 
tolerance. 

It bears mention that although many 
of the early American Colonies aspired 
to provide religious liberty to all citizens, 
colonial America often fell short 
of this ideal. In 1689, for example, England’s 
Parliament enacted the Act of 
Toleration, which granted freedom to 
non-Anglicans to hold their own religious 
services provided they properly 
registered their ministers and places of 
worship. However, the act did not extend 
the right to hold public office to 
nonconformists and explicitly excluded 
Catholics and Unitarians from all benefits 
provided by the act. Moreover, 
ministers of minority sects could be 
imprisoned for failing to apply for licenses 
or for preaching outside of authorized 
locations. In 1774, Virginia authorities 
imprisoned some 50 Baptist 
ministers for failing to heed the Toleration 
Act’s requirements. 

That the trajectory of religious liberty 
in America has not always been a 
straight line, however, does not diminish 
the centrality of religious freedom 
to the American ideal or to the history 
and growth of our Nation. Looking 
back centuries later, we rightly criticize 
colonial leaders for failing to give 
full freedom to religious practitioners. 
But the initial failure of some colonial 
leaders to live up to the ideal was ultimately 
overwhelmed by the success of 
later colonists and by the significance 
of religious liberty through the entire 
American project. 

As I said last week, our Nation exists 
because of religious liberty. The freedom 
to practice one’s faith was central 
to the founding and growth of the 
American Colonies. Furthermore, the 
guarantees of religious liberty found in 
the colonial charters, coupled with the 
breadth of religious diversity in pre-
revolution America, are nothing short 
of remarkable. As Stanford professor 
Michael McConnell—one of the great 
constitutional experts in our country— 
has noted, in the years leading up to 
the Revolution, America had ‘‘already 
experienced 150 years of a higher degree 
of religious diversity than had existed 
anywhere else in the world.’’ 

I come now to the American Revolution 
and subsequent ratification of the 
Constitution. It was through these crucial 
events that the ideal of religious 
liberty had so long motivated the colonists 
to become part of our fundamental 
charter of government. 

George Washington, while leader of 
the Continental Army, issued a command 
concerning religious liberty to 
the revolutionary troops: ‘‘[A]s far as 
lies in your power, you are to protect 

and support the free exercise of the religion 
of the Country, and the undisturbed 
enjoyment of the rights of conscience 
in religious matters, with your 
utmost influence and authority.’’ 

That was George Washington. 

Thomas Jefferson, the author of the 
Declaration of Independence, likewise 
emphasized the centrality of religious 
freedom for our new Nation. In 1786, 
the Virginia Legislature adopted a 
statute on religious freedom written by 
none other than Thomas Jefferson. 
This law said that ‘‘all men shall be 
free to profess, and by argument to 
maintain, their opinions in matter of 
religion, and that the same shall in no 
wise diminish, enlarge or affect their 
civil capacities.’’ 

Jefferson’s words in the Statute for 
Religious Freedom had a profound influence 
on James Madison, whom we 
revere today as the father of the Constitution. 
Madison reflected Jefferson’s 
vision in his own writings, declaring 
that ‘‘[t]he religion of every man must 
be left to the conviction and conscience 
of every man to exercise it as 
these may dictate.’’ 

The original Constitution, ratified in 
1788, did not contain a bill of rights because 
the Framers believed the structure 
they had created would effectively 
guard against tyranny. They also worried 
that enumerating rights could lead 
to mischief, as officials might argue 
that any right not enumerated did not 
exist. But the Framers eventually reversed 
course, and a few years later 
Madison drafted and the States ratified 
the first 10 amendments to the Constitution. 


The first of these amendments formalized 
the guarantee of religious liberty 
already found in many State constitutions 
and deeply embedded in the 
fabric of American society. The words 
are familiar to all Americans: ‘‘Congress 
shall make no law respecting an 
establishment of religion, or prohibiting 
the free exercise thereof.’’ The 
principle that had motivated the initial 
settlement of America and that 
had grown and matured in concert with 
the growth and maturation of the Colonies 
themselves had found expression 
in our fundamental charter. 

Of course, ratification of the First 
Amendment is not the end of the story. 
From the founding generation down to 
the present day, the importance of religious 
liberty to the American ideal has 
continued to manifest itself in a variety 
of ways. 

Consider the experience of the Ursuline 
nuns of New Orleans. These French 
sisters were the first congregation of 
Roman Catholic nuns in the United 
States. They came to America in the 
early 1700s and settled in New France, 
which later became Louisiana. 

Following the Louisiana Purchase in 
1803, the sisters of the Ursuline Convent 
grew concerned that they would 
lose their rights to their property and 
mission now that their charter was 
under the jurisdiction of the United 
States. 

The mother superior of the Ursulines 
petitioned President Thomas Jefferson 
to ask that the sisters be allowed to 
keep their property in New Orleans. 
President Jefferson responded powerfully, 
telling the Sisters: ‘‘The principles 
of the Constitution and government 
of the United States are a sure 
guarantee to you that [your property] 
will be preserved to you sacred and inviolate 
and that your institution will 
be permitted to govern itself according 
to its own rules, without interference 
from the civil authority.’’ 

President Jefferson spoke the truth. 
Indeed, the Old Ursuline Convent and 
Mission survives to this day. It is located 
in New Orleans’ famous French 
Quarter and is the oldest building in 
the Mississippi River Valley. The Old 
Ursuline Convent is an emblem of the 
vitality and centrality of religious liberty 
in American life. A persecuted religious 
minority, unpopular in its day 
and even reviled in some backward segments 
of society, received a personal 
guarantee from the President of the 
United States that their rights and 
property would remain secure under 
the protection of the U.S. Government. 
Here we see religious liberty not only 
as ideal but as reality. 

To return to my earlier formulation, 
Massachusetts represented the flight 
from religious persecution, Rhode Island 
and other Colonies the extension 
of free exercise. Now in the Constitution 
we have the guarantee of religious 
liberty to all people in all places within 
the jurisdiction of our great land. 

The Constitution and its guarantee 
of free exercise is the culmination of 
the process that began when the Pilgrims 
first set foot on the Mayflower 
way back in 1620. But the Constitution 
is only as effective as we, through our 
fidelity, make it. Regrettably, the 
guarantee of free exercise has at times 
been undermined or even abridged by 
narrowminded sectarianism or fear of 
new creeds. Such divergence from the 
promise of religious liberty is not 
cause to question the continuing value 
of religion or to claim that the promise 
of religious freedom is a false promise. 
Rather, it is reason to dedicate ourselves 
to the ideal enshrined in our 
Constitution that all men and women 
have an inalienable right to choose for 
themselves what they believe and how 
they will practice their beliefs. 

As many of my colleagues know, I 
am a descendent of the early Mormon 
pioneers who, much like the Pilgrims 
of the Mayflower, fled persecution and 
discrimination by abandoning their 
homes for a new place of refuge. In the 
case of the Mormon pioneers, they migrated, 
many by foot and in harsh conditions, 
in a mass exodus across the 
Great Plains over the Rocky Mountains, 
and, finally, into Salt Lake Valley 
and other settlements throughout 
the Intermountain West. Brigham 
Young was a great colonizer and sent 
people all over the West to settle the 
West. One of the attributes of the Mormon 
pioneers that I admire most is 


S7082 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

that after having endured mob violence, 
the martyr of their prophet, the 
burning of their homes and places of 
worship, and their forced flight into 
the American wilderness, they never 
lost their deep love of the United 
States and our Constitution. I am very 
pleased the people of Utah remain a 
deeply patriotic people, with a profound 
respect and admiration for our 
Constitution. 

In more recent years, our leaders 
have continued to reaffirm the importance 
of religious liberty in American 
life. In 1948, the United States was one 
of the original signers of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, which 
proclaims that every person has the 
right to freedom of religion, including 
the right to ‘‘manifest his religion or 
belief in teaching, practice, worship or 
observance.’’ 

Four decades later, in 1990, Congress 
passed the Religious Freedom Restoration 
Act, or RFRA, a crucially important 
piece of legislation that prohibits 
government from substantially burdening 
a person’s exercise of religion 
unless doing so is necessary to further 
a ‘‘compelling government interest.’’ I 
was honored to be one of the principal 
authors of RFRA and count its passage 
of one of the greatest moments of our 
time in this body. The bill passed the 
Senate 97 to 3 and passed the House 
without recorded opposition. An enormous 
coalition of groups from across 
the ideological spectrum—including 
the ALCU, the American Muslim Council, 
the Anti-Defamation League, the 
Christian Legal Society, and the National 
Council of Churches—came together 
in support of the Religious Freedom 
Restoration Act. The breadth and 
depth of support for RFRA was a sign 
of the enduring importance of religious 
liberty in American life. Indeed, RFRA 
demonstrated that religious liberty is 
the rare issue that unites Americans of 
all stripes. 

One other recent marker of the continuing 
significance of religious freedom 
in America is found, interestingly 
enough, in a bill aimed at protecting 
religious freedom in other countries. In 
1998, Congress unanimously passed the 
International Religious Freedom Act, 
which created an ambassador-at-large 
for International Religious Freedom 
within the State Department and a bipartisan 
U.S. Commission on International 
Religious Freedom. The very 
first words of the act proclaim that 
‘‘[t]he right to freedom of religion 
undergirds the very origin and existence 
of the United States.’’ 

This statement, approved by all 535 
Members of Congress and signed into 
law by the President, encapsulates the 
overarching theme of my remarks 
today. Freedom of religion is central to 
the American ideal and to the history 
and development of our Nation. From 
the earliest settlers to the revolutionary 
generation, to the 19th century, 
to the modern day, religious freedom 
has been a driving force in American 
life. Without the quest for reli


gious liberty, there would be no United 
States, and without the continued 
guarantee of religious freedom, there 
can be no American ideal. This is the 
fundamental rule in our society, a fundamental 
maxim, a fundamental part 
of the Constitution, a fundamental belief 
for virtually everyone in America 
who has any religious inclinations at 
all. 

I am proud to be a citizen of this 
great Nation. I don’t want to see religious 
liberty infringed upon, abused, 
not tolerated or denigrated. We have to 
stand up for it. We have to make sure 
everybody knows we are not going to 
change one of the basic precepts of the 
American experience—one of the basic 
precepts, from the beginning of this 
country until today. 

Mr. President, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
REMEMBERING JAMES H. GILLIAM, SR. 

Mr. COONS. Mr. President, it is with 
a heavy heart that today I rise to 
honor a friend and a true force for good 
in my home State of Delaware who recently 
passed away but whose impact 
will be felt for many years to come. He 
was, first and foremost, a loving husband, 
father, and grandfather. He was 
married to his wife Louise for 68 years 
and had always been the rock of his 
family. He was incredibly proud of the 
many accomplishments of his son Jim, 
Jr., and his daughter Dr. Patrice 
Gilliam-Johnson, after instilling in 
them his own passion of service to others. 
This man stood as a great leader in 
the First State. He was a veteran, a 
trailblazer, a mentor, and to so many 
of us a trusted adviser and friend. 

It was Mr. James H. Gilliam, Sr.—or 
Mr. G., as he was known to so many of 
us—who left our world early Wednesday 
morning on September 10, but before 
he left us, he made a profound impact 
on thousands of Delawareans from 
every walk of life, as a teacher, as a 
mentor, and a leader. His 95 years on 
this Earth marked a life well lived. 
Whether he was helping communities 
to heal and to grow together or helping 
to establish local and national organizations 
committed to social justice and 
equity, advising Governors, Members of 
Congress or even the Vice President, he 
never wasted an opportunity to make 
the case for our community. 

Jim Gilliam, though, actually didn’t 
grow up in Delaware. He was originally 
raised in Baltimore and earned a bachelor’s 
degree in sociology from Morgan 
State and a master’s degree in social 
work from Howard University. From 
1944 to 1948, he served his country with 
honor as a member of the Army’s 92nd 
Infantry Division, the famed Buffalo 
Soldiers, where he became a decorated 

soldier during the Second World War 
and beyond. He was actually recalled 
to duty again as a captain during the 
Korean war, and for all his service, he 
received many awards, including two 
Bronze Star Medals and the Combat Infantryman 
Badge. I will never forget 
the opportunity I had last year when I 
was able to help him retrieve a number 
of his missing or, in several cases, 
never awarded medals, and to reissue 
them to him in a public ceremony. 
Hundreds of Delawareans from across 
our community came together at that 
event—hundreds whose lives he 
touched, and I don’t think there was a 
dry eye in the house. 

Jim Gilliam didn’t come to Wilmington 
for good until 1965, when he 
was hired as director of neighborhood 
and housing services for the Greater 
Wilmington Development Council. 
Shortly after, in 1968, he was one of the 
few trusted to walk the Wilmington 
streets promoting reconciliation during 
the riots in our city and the National 
Guard occupation that lasted 
too long after the assassination of Rev. 
Martin Luther King, Jr. 

Mr. G. went on to hold positions of 
leadership with private and public sector 
entities, including vice president of 
the development company Leon N. 
Weiner & Associates, working to build 
affordable, low-income housing; or as 
the director of New Castle County’s Department 
of Community Development 
and Housing, where he served for many 
years; or in 1970 when Governor Peterson 
asked him to overhaul a then-failing 
Delaware family court. He touched 
many lives through many institutions. 

His constant involvement in the community 
led to many honors and accolades, 
but through it all he never rested 
on his laurels or slowed down in his 
efforts to serve others. In 1999, at an 
age when most others would have been 
beginning retirement, he spent 9 
months raising $1 million and securing 
hundreds of political, business, and 
community supporters to launch the 
Metropolitan Wilmington Urban 
League. The Metropolitan Wilmington 
Urban League quickly rose to prominence 
and 4 years later received the 
National Urban League’s highest 
honor. Since that time, as MWUL 
chairman, Jim led countless efforts in 
educational opportunity, economic development, 
supplier diversity, fighting 
racial profiling, and promoting equity 
in the arts. I was honored to be able to 
call him a mentor and an adviser. 

Whether working with him 15 years 
ago when I was a newly elected county-
wide official or in recent years as a 

U.S. Senator, I called on Mr. G. time 
and again when making tough decisions. 
His counsel was not always easy 
to receive. He pulled no punches, but 
he always gave advice keeping the best 
interests of our community in mind. I 
consider myself hugely blessed for the 
many opportunities when he shared his 
knowledge and perspective of what we 
needed to do. But I am far from the 
only person who long relied upon his 
advice. 

October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7083 

Mr. G. mentored countless young 
men and women from throughout the 
State and throughout his life and truly 
fostered an entire generation of civic 
and community leaders. One of them is 
Paul Calistro, the executive director of 
the West End Neighborhood House, 
whose organization has supported 
thousands youth in our city. A sentiment 
he recently related to me was 
that ‘‘Mr. G. was a man who could command 
the entire room, but could also 
speak to you as if you were the only 
one in the room.’’ 

Another person whose career he 
helped launch was Jea Street. He is 
now a county councilman, and for decades 
he was executive director of Hilltop 
Lutheran—another important 
youth-serving organization in a tough 
neighborhood in our city. He was hired 
at the tender age of 22, some 40 years 
ago, by Mr. G. to help in preparation 
for school desegregation. Jea recently 
commented: He did not tell me it was a 
job for life, but he helped me to do it 
and to stay on the battlefield for justice 
these many years. 

Any elected official or civic community 
leader who sat down with Mr. G. 
also knew that he meant business. He 
wasn’t shy about telling you what you 
needed to do, what you needed to do 
better, what you needed to do to make 
an impact. Whether it was fighting 
crime or investing in education or a 
growing opportunity, he was better 
than anyone I have ever known at delivering 
hard and pointed messages 
with a smile but with an intensity that 
made you listen and made you want to 
be a better man. The News Journal, our 
home paper in Wilmington, recently 
said: ‘‘Mr. Gilliam’s fight for racial justice, 
his efforts to correct the wrongs 
of our society and his willingness to 
mentor countless others, sent forth 
thousands of ripples of hope that have 
benefited us in the past and will serve 
us well in the future.’’ 

I think that is exactly right. No 
problem was too small or insignificant 
for him to embrace and to attend to 
and to set right. He was Wilmington’s 
pied piper, leading all kinds of people 
into a better place. He was a natural 
leader, and everyone who knew him is 
better off for it. 

My good friend Dr. Tony Allen counted 
Mr. G. as his best friend. Tony put it 
this way: 

He was the conscience of our community. 
He often said to me that the great challenges 
of life are in the moments when it is our 
turn. When there is an opportunity for us to 
speak up or to be quiet, to rise up or to lie 
down, to take arms or to take cover, most of 
us take the path of least resistance and miss 
the moment to make a difference in our own 
lives and in the lives of others. He taught everyone 
to never, ever miss their moment to 
act, to do the right thing, and to make the 
world a better place. 

For 95 years, Mr. G. never missed the 
moments that required him to act and 
to lead. He acted, he led, and his legacy 
lives on not only in his family but 
among so many other people and institutions 
throughout our State that he 
touched. 

As for me, I will always remember 
Jim Gilliam as a man who challenged 
me to be better. He viewed himself as a 
servant to our community, but he 
knew that his service alone wasn’t 
enough. That is why his lasting legacy 
will be in those whom he has inspired 
and whom he challenged to continue 
his work, to follow his example, to 
take our turn and our moment to fight 
for justice. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The Senator from Michigan wishes to 
be recognized, I presume. 

Mr. PETERS. I do, indeed. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator is recognized. 

PIPELINE IMPROVEMENT AND PREVENTING 
SPILLS ACT 

Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise 
today to speak about an issue that is of 
particular importance in my State of 
Michigan—preventing an oilspill in the 
Great Lakes. The Great Lakes are a 
part of our way of life in Michigan, 
supporting our multibillion dollar agricultural, 
shipping, and tourism industries. 
An oilspill on this precious resource 
would be catastrophic for Michigan 
and for all surrounding Great 
Lakes States. The Great Lakes are a 
critical drinking water source for 40 
million people, and they contain 84 percent 
of North America’s surface freshwater. 
Vessels moving through the 
Great Lakes carry goods and passengers 
across the region, and tourists 
in Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, 
Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, 
and New York take in their beautiful 
coastlines each year. Unfortunately, 
Michiganders know all too well the 
devastating consequences of a pipeline 
break and what it can do to an economy 
and to its natural resources. 

Five years ago we experienced one of 
the largest inland oilspills in U.S. history 
with a 6-foot break in the Line 6– 
B pipeline in Marshall, MI. Oil flowed 
for nearly 17 hours before it was eventually 
shut off, spilling more than 
800,000 gallons of heavy crude, contaminating 
35 miles of the Kalamazoo 
River, and ultimately racking up a 
cleanup cost of $1.2 billion. An independent 
investigation after the spill 
concluded that the pipeline operator’s 
inadequate procedures, as well as 
‘‘weak Federal regulations,’’ all played 
a major role in this disastrous spill. 

The Kalamazoo disaster, along with 
several other devastating pipeline explosions 
and spills, prompted a sweeping 
pipeline safety bill to be signed 
into law in early 2012. Unfortunately, 
many of those rules and regulations 
have yet to be finalized by the Pipeline 
and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, 
or PHMSA. 

I am very concerned about the potential 
for future spills in Michigan, especially 
from a pair of 60-year old pipelines 
carrying oil and natural gas liquids 
through the Straits of Mackinac, 
the place where Lake Michigan and 
Lake Huron meet. The Straits of Mackinac 
have been called the ‘‘worst possible 
place’’ for an oilspill in the entire 
Great Lakes Basin. The strong currents 
in the straits tend to reverse direction 
every few days, and they move 
water at a rate at over 10 times greater 
than the flow over Niagara Falls. A 
professor at the University of Michigan 
used computer modeling to estimate 
that a worst case scenario oil slick 
moving east through the Straits could 
reach the shores of Mackinac City and 
Mackinac Island—our number one 
tourist attraction—in just 3 hours. 

Even more troubling is the fact that 
Coast Guard officials have acknowledged 
that current oilspill response 
techniques are not adequate for open 
freshwater, let alone freshwater with 
heavy, thick ice—the ice we find every 
season in the Straits of Mackinac. 

To make matters worse, response 
plan requirements for pipelines overseen 
by PHMSA at the Federal level 
are seriously lacking. The information 
related to safety procedures, inspection 
reports, and worst case scenarios are 
unavailable to the public. Even local 
emergency responders have been left in 
the dark. That is why I, along with my 
Michigan colleague and good friend 
DEBBIE STABENOW, introduced the Pipeline 
Improvement and Preventing 
Spills Act, which includes several commonsense 
provisions to prevent pipeline 
accidents and protect the Great 
Lakes from catastrophic crude oil 
spills. Our bill requires the U.S. Coast 
Guard and other agencies to independently 
assess oilspill response and cleanup 
activities and techniques for the 
Great Lakes, specifically taking into 
account the cleanup response of an oil-
spill under solid, thick ice or ice-choke 
waters. 

My legislation requires the Department 
of Transportation and the National 
Academies to examine risks associated 
with pipelines in the Great 
Lakes and other waterways in the region, 
including an analysis of alternatives 
to the Straits oil pipeline. This 
bill would also increase transparency 
by ensuring residents are notified 
about pipelines near their property and 
compels operators and regulators to 
make information publicly available. 

My legislation will also expand safety 
features to pipelines in high-consequence 
areas—creating jobs for pipe-
fitters and other professions—while 
protecting dense population centers, 
drinking water, and environmentally 
sensitive areas. Finally, this bill will 
eliminate the future risk of a disastrous 
crude oil spill from tanker vessels 
on the Great Lakes. 

Currently crude oil is not shipped by 
tankers on the Great Lakes. However, 
it is increasingly being looked at as an 
option. Given the difficulty of cleaning 


S7084 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

up heavy oil in open freshwater, my 
bill will take that option off the table 
to ensure that we will not jeopardize 
our $7 billion Great Lakes fishing industry. 
The Pipeline Improvement and 
Preventing Spills Act is endorsed and 
supported by a number of groups, including 
the Michigan League of Conservation 
Voters; the Pipefitters, 
Plumbers and HVAC Techs Local 111; 
Traverse City Tourism; the Great 
Lakes Fishing Commission; Michigan 
Steelhead and Salmon Fishermen’s Association; 
National Wildlife Federation; 
and the Alliance for the Great 
Lakes—to name a few. 

The Senate committee on commerce, 
which has jurisdiction over pipeline 
safety, will be considering pipeline legislation 
in the next few weeks. I look 
forward to building support for provisions 
in my bill. Our country continues 
to record record highs in domestic energy 
production, but we must remain 
vigilant when it comes to energy transportation. 
Through strong oversight, 
leadership from the industry, and technological 
innovation, I firmly believe 
that we can and we must continue to 
meet our energy needs in the safest 
way possible while preserving treasures 
such as the Great Lakes for future generations. 


I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

PROTECTING AFFORDABLE 
COVERAGE FOR EMPLOYEES ACT 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
now proceed to the consideration of 

H.R. 1624, which is at the desk, and 
that the bill be read a third time and 
the Senate vote on passage of the bill 
with no intervening action or debate. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the bill by title. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 1624) to amend title I of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act and 
title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act 
to revise the definition of small employer. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

The bill was ordered to a third reading, 
and was read the third time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there 
is no further debate on the measure, 
the bill having been read the third 
time, the question is, Shall the bill 
pass? 

The bill (H.R. 1624) was passed. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous 
consent that the motion to reconsider 
be made and laid upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
wish to say a few words about the Protecting 
Affordable Coverage For Employees—
or PACE—Act. 

The PACE Act is smart legislation 
from my colleague, Senator TIM SCOTT, 
and my Kentucky colleague over in the 
House, Congressman BRETT GUTHRIE, 
that will help protect small- and medium-
sized businesses that provide 
health care to their employees. It 
would give States more flexibility to 
define what constitutes a small business 
for health insurance purposes so 
as to protect health benefits for workers, 
lower health premiums, and reduce 
costs for taxpayers. 

So let me repeat that. The PACE Act 
is a smart health care bill aimed at 
protecting workers’ benefits, lowering 
premiums, and reducing costs to taxpayers. 


I hope colleagues will join me in applauding 
the bill’s lead sponsors, our 
colleague, Senator TIM SCOTT, and his 
counterpart over in the House, Congressman 
BRETT GUTHRIE, for their 
hard work in developing this very important 
proposal. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Tennessee. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I 
wish to join the majority leader in 
complimenting Senator SCOTT, a new 
Member of the Senate, on a significant 
accomplishment. It is not that easy to 
pass a bill in the House and in the Senate. 
It takes a lot of work, and there is 
good reason for that. We want to make 
sure that whatever passes in the Senate 
has a thorough amount of consideration. 


Senator SCOTT has come to the Senate 
as a member of the HELP Committee. 
He is one of its most diligent 
members. I am chairman of that committee. 
He took this initiative on his 
own, working with Members of the 
House, where he formerly served, and 
he has brought the bill to the Senate, 
and within a few days he has gotten its 
unanimous approval. To me, that suggests 
the kind of U.S. Senator that we 
need more of—someone who is quiet, 
effective, scholarly, and gets results. 

So TIM SCOTT today, on behalf of the 
people of South Carolina and this country, 
has helped workers, has improved 
benefits, and has lowered premiums. He 
deserves our thanks. He has certainly 
earned my respect and the respect of 
his colleagues on both sides of the aisle 
by this significant accomplishment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from South Carolina. 

Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I wish to 
thank my cosponsor, Senator SHAHEEN, 
for working with me on the PACE Act, 
without any question. I also would like 
to thank Senator ALEXANDER for his 
kind remarks and specifically thank 
our leader, Senator MCCONNELL, for 
making sure this bill had an expeditious 
path to the floor of the Senate. 

So often we hear in America that we 
can’t get things done in the Senate, 
and because of your leadership, Senator 
MCCONNELL, and because of the 

good work of Congressman GUTHRIE on 
the House side, as well as Senator SHAHEEN, 
we see we are going to have an 
opportunity to make sure that small 
business owners all across America are 
not more negatively impacted by 
ObamaCare. 

The decision we have made today to 
move this legislation forward actually 
will save, on average, about 18 percent—
18 percent—of higher premiums 
that will not have to be paid by small 
businesses owners. 

Senator MCCONNELL, thank you for 
your leadership. Senator ALEXANDER, 
thank you for working with us on this 
very interesting process to get it to the 
floor as expeditiously as we have been 
able to do. 

With that, I thank both Senators for 
their hard work and dedication to this 
issue. 

Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I want to 
thank my friend and colleague Senator 
SCOTT for his leadership in protecting 
many Americans and small businesses 
from more needless suffering under 
ObamaCare. While I am glad for this 
outcome, a piecemeal approach to this 
terrible law is less valuable than a 
strategic approach. We must help the 
millions of other victims who are already 
suffering or will soon suffer from 
the law’s flawed policies but lack an effective 
lobbying voice. In the future, 
we should set the stage for a serious repeal 
and replace debate by delaying 
Obamacare’s onerous burdens, rather 
than merely working to make a terrible 
law 12 percent less bad. 

f 

NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION 
ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 
2016—CONFERENCE REPORT—Continued 


REMEMBERING OFFICER GREG ALIA 

Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I rise to 
speak about one of South Carolina’s 
most amazing heroes, Greg Alia. I am 
here today to recognize that this young 
man—32 years young—lost his life yesterday. 
Yesterday morning, Officer 
Greg Alia was killed in Columbia, SC. 

I will tell my colleagues that Greg 
served his community with distinction. 
Yesterday afternoon, I had an opportunity 
to talk with Greg’s wife, Kassy. 
Kassy’s strength, as she spoke with 
someone she has never met about the 
love of her life—about her husband, the 
father of her little boy, Sal—was quite 
remarkable. Her thoughtfulness in this 
tragic time truly struck a chord with 
me and brought tears to my eyes as I 
listened to a wife describe the man she 
loves, a community leader, and someone 
who runs into danger when others 
are running away from danger. 

Greg was born and raised in Columbia, 
SC. He was a Columbia native. He 
went to high school at Richland Northeast 
High School. He graduated from 
the University of South Carolina. If 
Greg were here, I would say ‘‘Go, 
Cocks’’ because we understand and appreciate 
the importance of the University 
of South Carolina, especially in 
the Columbia footprint. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7085 

More importantly, after high school, 
Greg wanted to find out what life was 
about. He had an opportunity to be a 
production assistant working on movies 
such as the latest version of ‘‘Indiana 
Jones,’’ as well as one of my favorite 
movies, frankly, ‘‘Iron Man.’’ Yes, 
‘‘Iron Man.’’ 

Greg was offered a job with Marvel, 
the comic book folks. He had an opportunity 
to stay out of the State and do 
amazing things and have a lot of fun, 
but his heart was beating to come back 
home to South Carolina, to come back 
home to Columbia, so that he could 
serve the people of South Carolina. He 
wanted to be a police officer. He wanted 
to help people. Kassy told me that 
Greg would have had no regrets. 

To think about those words from his 
wife on the day her husband was murdered, 
Greg would have no regrets because 
he was doing what he was made 
to do: Protect people, serve people, sacrifice 
on behalf of people. 

Greg was the embodiment of bravery 
and heroism. Greg was doing what he 
was wired to do. His wife was so clear 
and so passionate about his desire to be 
the first on the scene, his desire to do 
everything possible to try to be helpful. 
Greg, like so many police officers 
across this Nation and, without question, 
across the great State of South 
Carolina, loved serving people. And he 
did so. He did so with great integrity, 
with amazing character. He knew his 
place in the world was making sure 
that his town, his city, our State, and 
our Nation are safer because he put on 
the uniform every single day. 

Today, we all stand in salute to Greg 
and make a promise to his wife Kassy 
that we will be there with her as she 
raises her son Sal. Our prayers and our 
thoughts are with the family. 

In closing, I would like to share a 
story that Kassy told me yesterday 
afternoon as I had the chance to speak 
with her. The story brought a tear to 
my eye, and I hope as my colleagues 
hear the story, it may even bring a 
smile to their faces. Greg worked the 
night shift, and when he would come 
home in the morning—Sal was around 6 
months old and he was learning to sit 
up, and in the morning when Sal heard 
the police cruiser of his dad pull into 
the driveway, he would sit up and he 
would start smiling. He was feeding, 
and the milk, because of his big smile, 
would run down his face. 

Think for just a moment of that 
young man, Sal. He should have the opportunity 
to walk when he hears the 
cruiser coming into the driveway. He 
should have the opportunity to yell 
‘‘Daddy’’ when he hears that cruiser 
coming into the driveway. So for that 
little boy and his mama, Kassy, and for 
the Forest Acres community, I stand 
here today saying thank you for every 
single thing Greg has done to make our 
State and our Nation a better place to 
call home. I say thank you to Greg for 
making the ultimate sacrifice that will 
never be forgotten. And I say thank 
you to Kassy for being such a powerful 

and strong woman in this amazing 

time of her need. 

We should pray for Kassy and Sal. 

Thank you, Mr. President. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from Missouri. 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I am glad 
I got to be here to hear Senator SCOTT 
talk about that family and that hero 
and those who protect and defend us. In 
Missouri we have had over the last 
year a number of challenges on this 
front. I was recently meeting with a 
group of African-American pastors, one 
of whom was a pastor in Ferguson, MO, 
and talking about the hard work of 
being in law enforcement. He said: People 
who protect us, just like me, want 
to go home at the end of the day. And 
more than most of us, people who protect 
us leave every day with them and 
their families having the No. 1 focus of 
getting home at the end of the day. 
Thank God they are willing to step forward 
and protect us, especially understanding 
that this is a challenging job 
at a challenging time. 

VETERANS HEALTH CARE 

I wish to speak for a little while 
about veterans health care, another 
challenge we face right now. We just, 
unfortunately, failed to move to debate 
on a bill that would fund these programs, 
a bill that would increase funding 
for our veterans in areas such as 
health care and benefit claims and 
processing claims, medical research, 
and technology upgrades. For whatever 
reason, we decided as a Senate—and I 
don’t think for a good reason—that no, 
we are not going to debate that bill because 
all of these bills somehow collectively 
don’t spend enough money. But 
we have talked about that, and I talked 
about it earlier in the day. 

Right now I wish to speak for a few 
minutes about what we do need to be 
figuring out for our veterans. 

We learned a year ago that Veterans’ 
Administration wait times were unacceptable. 
We learned it was likely that 
a number of lives had been lost and 
deaths had been caused because our 
veterans didn’t get to see the doctor 
they should have gotten to see; they 
didn’t get the health care they earned 
as veterans and deserved. This summer, 
after a year of working to make this 
better, we found out that the wait list 
of people waiting more than 30 days at 
the VA system to see a doctor was now 
50 percent longer than it was last year. 
I thought about that a little bit and I 
thought, well, maybe it was just 50 percent 
longer than it was last year, because 
one thing they found out was the 
wait-list wasn’t really reflective of the 
real wait-list. The kind of progress we 
hoped to have made we don’t appear to 
be making yet. 

Last year the Congress passed a law 
to give veterans more choice. It was 
passed on a broad bipartisan basis. The 
Senate came together, the Congress 
came together to allow veterans to receive 
their health care in non-VA facilities 
if they couldn’t get that first 
appointment within 30 days or if they 

were more than 40 miles away from a 
facility. We tried this legislation this 
summer to put even more definition to 
that. Clearly, what the Congress means 
is 40 miles from a facility that can do 
what the patient needs to have done. If 
one needs to have a heart stint put in, 
just being 40 miles from a facility 
where they would take your blood pressure 
isn’t good enough. We will continue 
to work to change veterans 
health care in a way that gives veterans 
more choices, I hope. 

What we found out is that Alaskan 
care is just not acceptable. We have to 
continue to keep focused on this. The 
bill we provided will create more 
choices. 

Last week I had one of the best conversations 
I have ever had with anybody 
at the Veterans Administration 
when I talked to the Under Secretary 
of Health—a new person in that job— 
Dr. Dave Shulkin, who spent his whole 
life in health care in the private sector 
managing hospitals outside of the Federal 
Government. Dr. Shulkin should 
know what he is doing, and it certainly 
sounded to me as if he knew what he 
was doing. He understood the kinds of 
things the Congress hopes to see for 
our veterans and the VA system that 
need to happen. 

We talked about the fact that Congress 
intends for veterans’ choice to 
mean exactly that—not ways for the 
Veterans Administration to find obstacles 
to choice but veterans’ choice. If 
you are a Federal Government health 
care provider, if you take Medicare patients, 
you ought to be able to take 
veterans as patients. There shouldn’t 
be some long second process you have 
to go through to become qualified so 
that the veteran can see a doctor the 
veteran wants to see, the veteran can 
go to a hospital the veteran wants to 
go to, particularly if the VA can’t meet 
that need. 

In fact, the conversation I had with 
Dr. Shulkin was so good that for a little 
while, I thought maybe I had gotten 
the wrong number, that possibly I actually 
had not called the Veterans Administration, 
because I have never had 
a conversation like that where somebody 
at the Veterans Administration 
not only knew what needed to be done 
but wasn’t afraid to compete to get the 
health care needs of veterans met. 

I talked to all our veterans groups in 
Missouri, or many of them—certainly 
the two big veterans groups—at their 
meeting this summer. I said: Many of 
you have had great experience with the 
VA. 

There are a lot of people at the VA 
who want to do everything they can to 
serve veterans in the best possible way. 

I said: But that is not good enough. 
All of you need to have had the best 
possible experience at the VA—not necessarily 
the best outcome but the best 
possible outcome. 

You know, all of our health care outcomes 
aren’t what we would want them 
to be, but they ought to be everything 
they possibly should be. 


S7086 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

Veterans shouldn’t have to drive past 
non-VA facilities that are equally capable 
of providing their health care or 
more capable of providing their health 
care, and we are going to continue to 
work to see that that happens. Competition 
is a good thing. The best possible 
place to go for your health care is 
a good thing. 

I want to come back to that briefly 
in a moment, but before I get there, I 
received a report on Tuesday from the 
Veterans Administration’s inspector 
general that frankly just said that the 
allegations about what was happening 
at the St. Louis facility, the John 
Cochran facility, were absolutely true, 
that a number of files had been 
changed to indicate that the consultation 
had been completed before it was 
ever had. I assume it does a lot for 
your performance numbers if you 
check the ‘‘completed’’ box before you 
see the patient, and that appears to be 
what was happening. We learned that 
there is not enough oversight there. We 
learned that at least one psychiatrist 
had received performance pay based on 
productivity data. The only thing 
wrong with the productivity data was 
that it wasn’t correct. I guess it is easy 
to look good if you are not backing 
that up with real facts. It is not acceptable. 
It is inexcusable. 

Then we have a problem with leadership 
at these facilities. At the John 
Cochran hospital in St. Louis—the biggest 
hospital we have in our State—we 
have had seven temporary directors in 
2 years. No matter how good some of 
those may have been, having seven 
temporary directors is a lot like not 
having any director at all. If you know 
somebody is going to be there for 14 
weeks, or however long they are going 
to be there, and you know somebody 
else is coming, that obviously is not 
going to produce a good result, but 
that is happening. There are 30 veterans 
centers that don’t have permanent 
directors today. That is about 20 
percent of all the facilities in the country. 
One in five of our VA medical centers 
doesn’t have a permanent director, 
and we need to do better. 

Supposedly the new Administrator of 
the Veterans Administration came in 
because he was a great manager. So 
far, I don’t see the results. If he needs 
more help from the Congress to be a 
great manager, we ought to figure out 
a way to give him more help. 

I believe competition is a good thing. 
The VA should be good and really better 
than anybody else at a few things. 
Nobody should be better than the VA 
in terms of dealing with post-traumatic 
stress. Nobody should be better 
than the Veterans Administration 
when it comes to dealing with the results 
of these IED attacks, the improvised 
explosive device attacks. Because 
of that, eye injuries should be something 
the VA deals with very well. And 
nobody should be better than the VA at 
dealing with prosthetics or spinal cord 
injuries. 

Frankly, the Presiding Officer, as a 
doctor, would appreciate this. I don’t 

really know why we wouldn’t assume 
the VA would be the best place to specialize 
in almost anything else. And if 
it is not the best place to go, it 
shouldn’t be the only place to go. 

The VA is probably not likely to be 
any better or as good as anyplace you 
would drive by to get your heart stint 
put in, to take care of your cancer 
problem, to work with your kidneys 
that are failing, to get even the basic 
health care of getting your blood pressure 
checked. Our veterans deserve 
more choices. 

There are lots of reasons the Congress 
should be and is concerned about 
the way the Veterans Administration 
is working. It is clearly time for the 
Veterans Administration to get focused 
not on what is good for the Veterans 
Administration but on what is good for 
veterans. We owe it to our veterans. 

The report I got this Tuesday unfortunately 
verifies almost every concern 
that people have had, and we need to 
insist that that be better. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Delaware. 

PROVIDING FOR OUR VETERANS 

Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I am 
pleased to follow my colleague and 
friend from Missouri. I just want to 
mention—although I didn’t come to the 
floor to talk about what we are doing 
for veterans, let me take a minute or 
two to talk about what we are doing 
that we are actually proud of and then 
maybe touch on a couple of areas 
where we can do a better job. 

I myself am a veteran, a Navy midshipman 
out of Ohio State who studied 
economics for 4 years and went on to 
become a naval flight officer. I served 
for 5 years in Southeast Asia as a naval 
flight officer and then as a P–3 aircraft 
mission commander for another 18 
years until the end of the Cold War. I 
loved the Navy. I loved serving. 

I got an education—undergraduate 
and graduate school—and feel very 
privileged. I had the opportunity at the 
end of my Active-Duty tour to use the 
VA hospital very close to Wilmington, 
DE, in northern Delaware. I remember 
the first time I went there. I was offered 
some dental benefits, and my dentist—
a young dentist who was right out 
of dental school—told me the morale 
was pretty bad, and he said they didn’t 
do very good work. It was place where 
they had 16-bed wards. They didn’t do 
much in the way of outpatient surgery. 
The pharmacy was a mess. 

I said: Wouldn’t it be great to be in a 
position to do something about that 
and transform this place so it can be a 
health care delivery facility we can be 
proud of today? 

Do they do everything perfectly? No, 
they don’t. 

We have two satellite operations in 
Delaware. We have one in the Dover 
area, in the middle of our State, and we 
have another one in the southern part 
of the State, in Sussex County, which 
is Georgetown. I am very proud of 
those health care facilities. We call 
them outpatient clinics, CBOCS. 

The reason I mention that is because 
I was also eligible—coming out of the 
Vietnam war, along with other Vietnam 
veterans—to get an education, to 
go to college, and in my case graduate 
school on the GI bill. In my generation, 
we received about $250 a month. At the 
time, I was happy to have every bit of 
it. I continued to fly with my Reserve 
squadron for another 18 years, and it 
was great to have that benefit. 

A couple weeks ago, our congressional 
delegation—Senator COONS, Congressmen 
CARNEY, and Governor Jack 
Markell—sent 300 Delaware National 
Guard men and women off to Afghanistan. 
We had a big sendoff ceremony 
for them. Their families were there. We 
had about 1,000 people. It was a big 
sendoff. 

As they left, I told them: When you 
come back, you are going to be eligible 
for a GI benefit that dwarfs what my 
generation received. 

They won’t get 250 bucks a month. If 
they serve a total of 3 years on Active 
Duty and serve in Afghanistan or Iraq 
for a period of time, here is what they 
will be eligible for: They can come 
back and go for free to the University 
of Delaware, Delaware City University, 
Wilmington University—pretty much 
any public college or university in 
America; tuition, books, and fees paid 
for; and if they need tutoring, that is 
paid for as well. On top of all that, they 
get a housing allowance of $1,500 a 
month. We received a GI benefit of $250. 

Not surprisingly, at the end of World 
War II, when my dad and my uncle 
served—in the Korean war, when my 
uncle served, and at the end of the 
Vietnam war, scam artists emerged to 
take advantage of the GI and tried to 
separate the GI coming back from combat—
tried to separate the GI cash 
value benefits from the GI and sometimes 
not to provide them with a very 
good education but to take advantage 
of the GI and the taxpayers. 

In about 1952, something called the 
85–15 rule was passed whereby at least 
15 percent of the students enrolled in a 
for-profit college or university had to 
be there—their tuition paid for by 
some source other than the Federal 
Government. As it turns out, the 85–15 
rule became the 90–10 rule, so that 90 
percent of those who were enrolled 
were paid for by the Federal Government, 
but another 10 percent had to be 
paid for by someone else other than the 
Federal Government. Over time, that 
changed so that 90 percent of the revenues 
of a for-profit college or university 
could come from the Federal Government 
but not the other 10 percent— 
except for the money that came from 
the GI bill to a college or university or 
from tuition assistance for people on 
Active Duty. That didn’t count against 
the 90 percent. At the end of the day, a 
for-profit college or university could 
get 100 percent of its revenues from the 
Federal Government. I don’t think that 
is a good thing. 

The system that was designed early 
on with the 85–15 rule and later the 90– 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7087 

10 rule was designed to try to make 
sure there were market forces that ensured 
taxpayers and the GIs, the veterans 
would get a fair deal, get a good 
education, make sure they were treated 
the way we would want them to be 
treated. 

There is a huge loophole in the 90–10 
rule, and it is a loophole we need to fix. 
We need to fix it. 

My colleagues who talked here earlier 
today—including my colleague 
from Missouri—about the quality of 
VA health care—I want to say that we 
are providing the best health care by 
far in the history of our country. For 
too long, a number of our for-profit colleges 
and universities and postsecondary-
training programs have been 
taking advantage of GIs, taking advantage 
of the taxpayers, and it should 
stop. It should stop. 

Having said that, there are a number 
of for-profit colleges and universities 
and training programs that do a great 
job. They are not all bad actors. Some 
of them wear white hats. For them, 
good for you, and for those who are 
not, you need to change your ways. 

I didn’t come here to talk about that, 
but in the spirit of making sure we 
look out for our veterans, I thought I 
would mention that. 

TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING 

Let’s take a look at some of the posters 
here this afternoon. 

The first one looks like my State. It 
probably also looks like the Presiding 
Officer’s State. It could look like any 
of the States our pages are from. But 
this is a traffic jam. It is a traffic jam 
that occurs almost every day, almost 
every business day, and frankly a lot of 
weekends on highways across America 
from coast to coast. We spend a lot of 
time sitting in traffic. It is actually 
quite a substantial cost that inures to 
our Nation’s economy. The cost this 
year is believed to be about $160 billion, 
a hit on our national economy. I will 
talk in just a second about what that 
includes. 

Part of the waste that is reflected in 
our Nation’s economy is—you see right 
here it says ‘‘82 hours wasted in big 
city traffic.’’ That is per person, per 
driver, on average, across the country, 
big cities, people sitting—pretty much 
sitting in traffic. They could be in a 
minivan, they could be in a small car, 
a large car, they could be in a truck, 
but we are talking about 82 hours a 
year just pretty much sitting in traffic. 

The average across the country, 
when you take in the more rural parts 
of the country and suburban areas, is 
about 42 hours. That is a whole lot of 
time. Time is money. So just think 
about that. 

Here is one with a sense of humor. 
This is not Delaware. I am not sure 
where this is, but for those who can’t 
read this, it says—the traffic sign that 
is up here says: ‘‘You’ll never get to 
work on time. Haha.’’ It is some kind 
of construction program. You see the 
orange cones out there. Someone had a 
good sense of humor there. My guess is, 

the folks who maybe were working on 
the project had a good sense of humor. 
My guess is that for a moment it made 
the drivers smile but not for long, especially 
if they sat in traffic long enough. 
Eighty-two hours a year, that is long 
enough. 

Not only is it expensive, a waste of 
time and money for us as individuals to 
sit in traffic for a long time, another 
part of the cost is caused by potholes 
and other problems with our roads. I 
think this is probably a bridge. It looks 
like it might be a bridge, but it is a 
construction project someplace. Here is 
a pothole. That is a bad pothole. In 
other parts—not too much in Delaware—
I have seen in other States at 
least that bad and worse. 

What is going to happen, vehicles 
will come along, they will hit that pothole, 
and may damage their tires, they 
may have to replace a tire or two, they 
may have to get their front end realigned. 
That costs money. How much? 
Actually, believe it or not, just like 
Texas A&M has actually figured out on 
average we waste 82 hours a year as 
drivers, somebody else actually spent 
the time to figure out how much we 
spend on our cars, trucks, and vans in 
order to fix them during the course of 
the year because of potholes like this 
and other problems, whether it is the 
surface of the roads we travel on or the 
surface of the bridges we travel on. It 
is over $350. I have seen the range of 
anywhere from $350 per year to $500 per 
year. Let’s say it is just $350 a year. 
That is a lot of money. That is part of 
the cost of the damage to our economy. 

The other thing I would say, our 
economy today, as we all know, is a 
‘‘just in time’’ economy. I will give you 
a good example. We have a port in Wilmington 
that sits right on the Delaware 
River. As you come up the Delaware 
Bay, it becomes the Delaware 
River. The port that is closest to the 
Atlantic is the Port of Wilmington. 
Ships are coming in and out of there 
throughout the day, nights, and weekends. 
The ships don’t come in and 
spend a week. Ships don’t come into 
the Port of Wilmington and spend a 
day. They may come in for 4 hours, 
they may come in for 6 hours, but they 
are there and then they are gone, because 
when a ship is sitting in the Port 
of Wilmington or any other port, the 
shipper, whoever owns that boat, that 
ship cannot make any money. So they 
want to be in and they want to be out. 
That is the way they do their business. 

It is important for whoever is coming 
in using a truck to bring goods to put 
on that ship to send around the world, 
there may be a very short window of 
time to get there. If you are stuck in 
traffic, the kind of traffic we saw early 
on, you may miss that window when 
the ship is in the port, whether it is 
Wilmington or some other port. That is 
another reason why, in a ‘‘just in time’’ 
economy, these kinds of delays mean 
time is money. Again, someone else 
with a sense of humor—if you cannot 
read this, it looks like a husband and 

wife driving along in their car. His wife 
says: ‘‘Finally someone fixed that pothole.’’ 
Here is the pothole. There is a 
car down there. The guy driving looks 
like he is having a bad day, not just a 
bad hair day, a very bad day. 

A little humor there but not if you 
happen to be this guy, frankly—probably 
not if you happen to be this guy, 
because if you are running over somebody 
else’s car in a pothole like this, 
the guy is going to spend a lot more 
than 350 bucks to repair his car and get 
it going again. 

We are not making this stuff up. 
There is a national association, I think 
it is civil engineers, people who spend 
their life’s work on transportation 
projects. Every year for years, they 
have given us a grade on what kind of 
shape our roads, highways, bridges, and 
transit systems are in. They could give 
an A, A-plus, A-minus, they could give 
a B, B-plus, B-minus, they could give a 
C, C-plus, C-minus or they could give a 
D-plus, D, D-minus. The last couple of 
years we have been right around D to 
D-plus. I think we are probably going 
down rather than going up. So what everybody 
knows—just about anybody 
who drives in our country these days 
knows we are not investing in our 
roads, highways, bridges, and transit 
systems the way we need to. 

Look around the rest of the world, 
travel around the rest of the world. 
You can see in a lot of countries we 
compete with that they do. One of the 
components of certain investments we 
need to make in our country in order 
to strengthen our economy, to better 
ensure the jobs are going to be created 
or preserved—there a lot of things we 
can do to make sure businesses have 
access to capital, make sure the cost of 
energy is affordable, make sure the 
cost of health care is affordable, make 
sure we have public safety, make sure 
the people who are coming out of our 
schools can read, write, and have the 
skills that are needed in the workforce. 

I know the big one is to make sure 
we have the ability to move people and 
goods where they need to go, when they 
need to go. Here is our current plan. It 
is pretty well summed up in this sign. 
It is meant to be funny. I suppose it is. 
But I like this part of the plan: ‘‘Good 
luck.’’ That is not a plan. That is not 
a plan that is going to get us where we 
need to go as a nation. 

For those who may be unable to read 
this, there is a big traffic jam. A lot of 
people are saying—you see those little 
bubbles there—‘‘I’d pay to be anywhere 
but here.’’ 

I was Treasurer of Delaware. I studied 
economics, got an MBA, and was 
Treasurer of Delaware when I was 29. I 
had a chance to serve in the house for 
a while and then as Governor. I was 
very much involved in the National 
Governors Association in trying to 
make sure we invested in our transportation 
infrastructure across the country. 
In the Senate, I am on the Environment 
and Public Works Committee. 
The last time I was privileged to serve 


S7088 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

as chair of the Senate Subcommittee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 

So I thought a fair amount about 
these issues. If you think about the 
way we pay for roads, highways, 
bridges, and transit, what we have used 
for years is a user pay system. The people, 
the businesses that use our roads, 
highways, bridges, and transit systems, 
we pay for them. In some places, we 
have sort of gotten away from that. 
There is an unwillingness to ask people 
to pay for what they want to use. Everybody 
wants to have better transportation 
systems. There seems to be a lot 
of reluctance to pay for that. 

When I was Governor of Delaware, 
three times I asked for modest—very 
modest—increases, just a couple of 
cents in the fee for gas and diesel tax. 
I think out of three efforts, we succeeded 
one time. Not a whole lot was 
raised, but we cobbled together some 
other money from other user fees and 
we were able to continue to fund transportation 
funding. 

For a number of years in the Nation, 
we have had a transportation trust 
fund. Most of the money for that transportation 
trust fund comes from user 
fees, and two primary user fees are a 
gas tax. It has been about 18.3, 18.4 
cents since, I think, 1993. It has been a 
little bit over 18 cents since 1993. It has 
not changed. The cost of concrete has 
gone up. The cost of asphalt has gone 
up. The cost of steel has gone up. The 
cost of labor has gone up. What has not 
gone up is the user fee we are asking 
people to pay to have better roads, 
highways, bridges, and transit to get 
people off our roads, highways, and 
bridges. If we can do that, we can save 
a lot of money. 

We have a tax on diesel—a Federal 
tax. It has been about 24 cents per gallon. 
It has been at that level since 
1993—since 1993. Again, concrete, asphalt, 
steel, and labor have all gone up, 
but in 22 years we have not changed the 
user fee, if you will, on diesel. 

The money we collect from the gas 
and diesel tax does not go to pay for 
health care, it does not go to pay for 
wars, it does not go to pay for agriculture 
and other things. The money 
we collect from these user fees goes to 
pay for roads, highways, bridges, and to 
some extent for transit systems, to get 
people off our roads, highways, and 
bridges so the rest of us will have some 
extra room to maneuver. 

I will go back in time. Thomas Jefferson 
said a lot of things that are 
worth remembering. My favorite Jefferson 
quote is this: ‘‘If the people 
know the truth, they won’t make a 
mistake.’’ 

If the people know the truth, they 
won’t make a mistake. The truth is, we 
are not investing in our transportation 
infrastructure in this country the way 
our competitors are and the way we 
ought to be. 

To do so does not mean we have to 
raise—in some places they have gas 
taxes or diesel taxes that are $4 or $5 a 
gallon. We don’t have that. It is 18 

cents, and 24 cents for gas and diesel 
combined. If we had increased them by 
the rate of inflation in the past, the 
gas tax would be not 18 cents; it may be 
even closer to twice that. The diesel 
tax would not be 24 cents; it might be 
closer to twice that. But we have not 
changed them. 

Here is the way we pay for transportation 
improvements: We don’t pay for 
them. We don’t raise anything, in some 
cases. We just simply go out and borrow 
money for the transportation fund 
from the Federal general fund. When 
the general fund runs out of money, we 
borrow money from countries around 
the world like China and other places 
and replenish the general fund, and use 
that to replenish the transportation 
fund. 

I think that is pretty foolish, especially 
to be beholden to the folks in 
China for our transportation system. It 
does not make a whole lot of sense to 
me, maybe it does not to you either. 
There are other things we do—we have 
these—I call them cats and dogs, sort 
of sleight of hand. One of the more recent 
examples, we do something called 
pension smoothing, where—I will not 
get into how that works, but it is just 
an awful idea to mess with, muck with 
people’s pensions in order to be able to 
provide funds for road improvements. 
That does not make much sense. 

Another thing we do is we maybe 
raise the TSA fees when people want to 
fly. Instead of using that to make our 
friendly skies safer, we put a little of 
that money in roads, highways, and 
bridges or maybe we sell some of the 
oil we have in our Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve. We paid a lot of money several 
years ago to buy gas, to buy oil when it 
was expensive. People think it would 
be a smart thing to sell that oil out of 
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, when 
prices are low, to help pay for roads, 
highways, and bridges. Remember the 
old saying ‘‘buy low, sell high.’’ Well, 
this is really buy high and then put 
that oil in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve 
and then sell low. That is insanity. 


We can do a lot better than this. For 
a number of years, some have encouraged 
us to do what we have been doing 
for years, to actually be honest and 
pay for improvements to our roads, 
highways, and bridges. And that is to 
raise the user fees—not all at once, not 
by $1 or $2 or anything like that, but 
by 4 cents a year starting next year for 
4 years. Then after that index—then 
index the fees and the taxes on gas and 
diesel according to the rate of inflation. 


If we did that, I think we would have 
a combined State and Federal user fee, 
if you will, for gas. I think it would be 
at that time 53 cents. It would be about 
53 cents. Compared to what? Compared 
to pretty much any other developed nation 
in the world, we would have the 
lowest combined Federal, State, and 
local user fees on gas and diesel. It is 
the lowest as far as I can tell. We can 
actually double that. We are not going 

to do that. We could actually double it 
again—we are not going to do that— 
from 53 cents to $1.06 per gallon. Again, 
I don’t suggest we would do that, but if 
we did, we would still be among the 
lowest compared to the rest of the 
world. 

Sometimes we say: Well, 16 cents— 
what could I buy with that? If I didn’t 
have to pay 4 years from now an extra 
16 cents when I buy a gallon of gas, 
what would that add up to in a week 
for the average driver? 

I will tell you this—maybe brings it 
home—basically the price of a cup of 
coffee a week is the cost that would be 
incurred by the average driver even 
after the full increase, the 4 cents 
times 4 years. That is what it is worth. 
That would be the out-of-pocket expense 
for the average driver, the price 
of a cup of coffee a week. 

We saw earlier from some of these 
charts that, on average across the 
country, people are sitting in traffic 
for 42 hours per year. We saw some of 
the graphics with the pothole and were 
reminded that the cost of damage to 
our cars, trucks, and vans is anywhere 
from $350 to some estimates as high as 
$500. We are learning that for the price 
of a basic cup of coffee, if we invest 
that money instead—people can still 
drink coffee, but if we put that in our 
roads, highways, bridges, and transit 
systems, we can have a transportation 
system we can be proud of. Those four 
pennies add up over time, and they add 
up over the next 10 years to $220 billion 
to have for investments. So instead of 
having roads or potholes that look like 
the one I saw and the kinds of traffic 
jams we see here from coast to coast, 
we can have a transportation system 
again in this country we can be proud 
of. We just have to have the will to do 
it. 

Again, Thomas Jefferson reminded us 
that things that are worth having are 
worth paying for, and if people know 
the truth, they won’t make a mistake. 
Roads, highways, bridges, transit—that 
is what we are paying for. The truth is, 
it doesn’t have to break us. It doesn’t 
have to break our banks or our budgets. 
We can have those roads, highways, 
and bridges again that we can be 
proud of. I hope we will do that. 

Senator DICK DURBIN of Illinois and I 
have introduced legislation to essentially 
do that, to raise the user fees by 
4 cents a year for 4 years, at a time 
when the price of oil is as low as it has 
been for some time and is expected to 
stay low for the foreseeable future. 

If the Iranians work with us and the 
other five nations that negotiated the 
Iranian agreement in order to gradually 
lift sanctions from their economy, 
they will be able to start producing oil 
and selling it across the world as long 
as they agree not to create that nuclear 
weapon. We are going to make 
sure they don’t. 

But it turns out that Iran is the No. 
4 nation in the world in oil reserves. 
Think about that. We live in a world 
that is awash in oil. Very soon, the Iranian 
oil will be added to the oil that is 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7089 

available to consumers to use on this 
planet of ours. All that oil will not 
push up the price of oil or gasoline or 
diesel; it will push it down—supply and 
demand. Let’s keep that in mind. 

With that, I have spoken for long 
enough. I see one of my colleagues has 
been waiting patiently, and I will bid 
you all adieu. Have a good weekend. 
Thank you. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alaska. 

MILCON-VA APPROPRIATIONS BILL 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I wish 
to say a few words about the bill that 
we voted on this afternoon and put it 
into a broader context. This was the 
bill to begin the vote and debate on the 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
Appropriations bill, which passed 
out of the Appropriations Committee 
in a strong bipartisan vote. 

There has been a lot of talk and a lot 
of stories in the media over the last 
several weeks about the government 
running out of money, a government 
shutdown. In a lot of those stories, the 
narrative talked about the Republican 
Party being the one focused on a government 
shutdown. The media actually 
loves this narrative, but, like a lot of 
narratives in the media, they are not 
always so accurate. So I wanted to give 
what I think is the much more accurate 
story, what is really going on here 
in the Senate. 

Many of us are new Senators—the 
Presiding Officer and myself included— 
13 of us, actually. A lot of us came to 
Washington and a lot of us actually ran 
for the Senate because we were fed up. 
We thought the American people were 
fed up; we knew they were fed up with 
the dysfunction of the Federal Government. 
There are a lot of examples of 
that. You know many of them. 

In the last several years we have run 
the debt of our Nation from $10 trillion 
to $18 trillion. Think about that. Looking 
at these interns here on the floor, 
that is going to be their responsibility 
if we don’t get ahold of that—$18 trillion. 
An economy that can’t grow is 
what we call the new normal here in 
Washington, 1.5 percent, 2 percent GDP 
growth. No budget. The previous Senate 
was not even passing a budget—the 
most basic function of government. 
Households do it, businesses do it, and 
States do it. The Federal Government 
was not even taking the time to pass a 
budget. There were no appropriations 
bills, no spending bills out of the Appropriations 
Committee. These were 
all signs of a Federal Government that 
was not working, that was dysfunctional. 


So we came with the new majority, 
new leadership committed to change 
this. We meant to change this. We were 
very focused on changing this, and we 
have begun in a serious way to do that. 
What are we doing? First, we passed a 
budget. It hadn’t happened in years, 
but we did that. It was a lot of hard 
work. My hat is off to the Budget Committee. 
We took what was the Presi


dent’s budget, 10-year budget, and 
slashed that by $5 trillion to $7 trillion 
in terms of spending. We didn’t raise 
taxes. 

Then the next step—what the government 
is supposed to do—we started to 
work on appropriations bills in the Appropriations 
Committee. Again, this 
was very hard work, very bipartisan 
work, and for the first time in years, 
the Appropriations Committee passed 
out 12 appropriations bills to fund our 
government. 

Most of these were very bipartisan. 
Let me give you a few examples. The 
Agriculture appropriations bill passed 
out of the Appropriations Committee 
28 to 2. It doesn’t get much more bipartisan 
than that. The Commerce-Justice-
Science appropriations bill passed 
27 to 3; Energy and Water, 26 to 4. This 
is strong bipartisan work in the Appropriations 
Committee with our government 
getting back to work. 

The dysfunction that had previously 
existed here for many years—none of 
this was happening—was going away, 
and we were working. Very importantly, 
in terms of appropriations bills, 
the Defense appropriations bill passed 
out of the committee 27 to 3, and the 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs 
appropriations bill, 21 to 9. 

So we passed a budget, passed appropriations 
bills—so far so good. The Senate 
is working again. We are back to 
regular order. We are moving forward 
in a bipartisan way—very bipartisan. 
We are doing the work of government. 
It is what the American people wanted, 
asked for, and we are starting to deliver 
on that as part of our promises 
last fall. 

So what is the next step? The next 
step is to take these appropriations 
bills and bring them to the Senate 
floor for a vote. It shouldn’t be a problem, 
particularly because the bills I am 
talking about are so bipartisan. They 
came out of committee with bipartisan 
numbers and support, so that is what 
we are doing. That is what is we have 
done. That is what we are supposed to 
do. That is what the American people 
want us to do. 

We started to prioritize. Where 
should we begin? Turn on the news. I 
think most people know where we 
should begin—funding our military, the 
men and women protecting us, the men 
and women risking their lives on a 
daily basis for our freedom. 

So we brought the Defense appropriations 
bill to the Senate floor. Again, we 
certainly need that. One gets the sense 
that the world is careening into chaos. 
We need a strong military. We need to 
fund our military. It shouldn’t be an 
issue. It passed out of committee with 
a strong bipartisan vote. Everybody 
likes to make sure we have a strong 
military. 

So what happened? We brought it to 
the floor of the Senate and it was filibustered, 
not one but two times. That 
is irresponsible—filibustering the defense 
of our Nation, defunding the support 
for our troops. 

So that brings us to what we did 
today. We turn to another appropriations 
bill—Military Construction and 
Veterans Affairs appropriations— 
again, a very bipartisan bill. It is very 
focused, building military infrastructure 
throughout our country, throughout 
the world. One of the most sacred 
responsibilities of this body, of our 
government is taking care of our veterans. 


This is a huge issue for my State. 
Alaska boasts the highest number of 
veterans per capita of any State in the 
Nation, and we need to take care of our 
best. So what happened today? It seems 
pretty noncontroversial. The appropriations 
bill—a very nonpartisan 
bill—came to the floor, and it was filibustered 
again. 

In the past few weeks, we have had 
critical votes to fund our military, to 
fund our troops, to fund our veterans, 
and we cannot move forward. What is 
going on here? I really don’t know. It is 
hard to say. I sit on the Armed Services 
Committee. I sit on the Veterans’ 
Affairs Committee. These are two of 
the most bipartisan committees in the 
Senate. I know all of my colleagues on 
both sides of the aisle truly respect, 
truly support our troops and our veterans, 
and truly want what is best for 
them. I recognize that. 

Then why is the other side filibustering 
the funding of these incredibly 
important bills, in essence defunding 
our troops and defunding our veterans? 
I think the American people deserve 
answers. I think our veterans deserve 
answers. I think our troops in harm’s 
way deserve answers. 

One thing for sure is the next time 
the media wants to write a story with 
a narrative about a government shutdown, 
they ought to ask those who 
voted against these bills—to even start 
debating them—why they are 
defunding these critical groups and 
veterans. They need to ask those who 
are voting against these bills, filibustering 
these bills, why they are leaving 
our troops and our veterans in the 
lurch. 

Mr. President, we are doing our job— 
what the American people asked us to 
do, demanded from us last November. 
They wanted us to pass a budget like 
they do, even though we hadn’t done 
that in years. We did. They wanted us 
to pass appropriations bills and to 
work in a bipartisan manner to get 
these bills through the committee—all 
12 to fund the government. We did. And 
they wanted us to prioritize our spending, 
our activities, and our focus in 
terms of government funding on the 
things that matter most—our military 
and our veterans. And we did. 

I have no idea why our colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle refuse to 
move with us in terms of the next step. 
The American people want the next 
step. They want the Senate to vote on 
these bipartisan bills that fund our 
military and fund our veterans. Today, 
once again, we are seeing that is not 
happening. I think the American people 
need answers, I think our troops 


S7090 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

need answers, and I think our veterans 
need answers on why it is not happening. 


Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
be in a period of morning business, 
with Senators permitted to speak 
therein for up to 10 minutes each. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

NATIONAL KINSHIP CARE MONTH 

Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, last 
night, this body approved a resolution 
authored by Senator WYDEN and myself 
designating September 2015 as National 
Kinship Care Month. 

While many may not be aware, there 
are approximately 2,700,000 children 
living in kinship care around this country. 
That means millions of grandparents, 
aunts, uncles, and other relatives 
are looking after children in 
every urban, rural, and suburban county 
of the United States. 

These caregivers have stepped forward, 
often at great personal expense, 
out of love and loyalty to care for children 
during times in which biological 
parents are unable to do so. They provide 
safety, promote well-being, and establish 
stable homes and environments 
for extremely vulnerable children during 
very challenging circumstances. 

They serve in a time of upheaval and 
great change for these children, assisting 
them to recognize their self-worth 
and potential. 

Kinship care also enables the children 
to maintain family relationships 
and cultural heritage as they continue 
residence in the native community of 
the child. 

This resolution sends a clear message 
that the Senate is proud of and wishes 
to honor these everyday heroes, kinship 
caregivers, who throughout the 
history of the United States, have provided 
loving homes for parentless children. 


It is my hope that National Kinship 
Care Month can provide each of us with 
an opportunity to recognize and celebrate 
the sacrifice and devotion of kinship 
caregivers. And while there is still 
a great deal of work we can do to ensure 
that all children have a safe, loving, 
nurturing, and permanent family, 
regardless of age or special needs, kinship 
care providers exhibit a template 
of care and sacrifice that should be provided 
for every child in this great country. 


I am very proud of this resolution 
and this acknowledgement, and I thank 
my colleagues for giving it their unanimous 
support. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO DAVID WOLK 
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I want to 
take a moment to recognize the 
achievements and contributions of a 
remarkable educator, a personal friend, 
and a celebrated leader in my home 
State of Vermont. 
For decades, David Wolk has successfully 
distinguished himself as an educator 
and public servant to the people 
of Vermont. Now in his 11th year as 
president of Castleton University, formally 
known as Castleton State College, 
David likes to call Castleton ‘‘the 
small college with a big heart.’’ As the 
longest serving president in its history, 
he has increased the college’s involvement 
in the community and has expanded 
the university’s commitment to 
civic engagement and service among 
students and faculty alike. His personal 
commitment to his hometown of 
Rutland, VT, is evidenced through his 
service as a former State senator and 
current role as a local justice of the 
peace. 
As David has emboldened Castleton’s 
primary mission to serve Vermonters, 
the institution has forged new partnerships 
and expanded its opportunities to 
reach far beyond its footprint in Rutland 
County. David’s leadership is currently 
enabling the Castleton Polling 
Institute, which conducts surveys for 
Vermont politicians and media outlets, 
to expand to a national audience. 
Meanwhile, the Castleton Center for 
Schools continues to serve hundreds of 
Vermont educators by offering advanced 
continuing education opportunities 
each summer. Under his leadership, 
Castleton athletics has expanded 
from 12 sports at his inauguration to 27 
varsity offerings, enabling Vermont 
students to play Division III sports. 
Most recently, David has provided the 
vision and guidance for Castleton to 
undergo its own transformation as the 
college seeks to grow its prestige and 
opportunities as newly named 
Castleton University. 
David held a distinguished career in 
education even before stepping foot at 
Castleton. He served as chief of policy 
for former Vermont Governor Howard 
Dean and as the Vermont commissioner 
of education. Dedication to his 
native community of Rutland may also 
be witnessed by his impressive resume 
as a school principal, superintendent of 
the Rutland City Public Schools, a 
guidance counselor and teacher, and a 
college instructor. He has also served 
as a member of numerous boards, including 
the Vermont Business Round-
table, the Vermont Public Education 
Partnership, and the Vermont Student 
Assistance Corporation. In recognition 
of these achievements, he received the 
2009 Eleanor M. McMahon Award for 
Lifetime Achievement from the New 
England Board of Higher Education. 

If his career is not inspiration 
enough, David’s commitment to family 
surely is. The proud father of four children, 
David led his family through the 
celebration of the life and legacy of his 
wife, Diane, when she passed away this 
summer, nearly a decade after being diagnosed 
with early onset Alzheimer’s. 
A lifelong educator herself, Diane and 
David, together, gave more to their 
community than most. And David’s 
compassion and commitment to Diane 
leaves a lasting impression on those of 
us who call him a friend. Marcelle and 
I admire him. 

In recognition of David Wolk’s service 
and resiliency, I ask unanimous 
consent that Terri Hallenbeck’s article 
from the August 26, 2015, edition of 
Seven Days be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

[From Seven Days, Aug. 26, 2015] 
RESILIENT DAVID WOLK CHAMPIONS 
CASTLETON UNIVERSITY 
Between the playing fields that serve the 
Castleton Spartans, a marble monument 
tells the story of the Greek king Leonidas 
and how he bravely resisted an army of invaders. 
David Wolk chose the 22,000-pound stone 
from a Rochester quarry and had it polished 
and engraved in Barre. As Castleton’s longest-
serving president and its cheerleader-in-
chief, he hoped the monument’s message, titled 
‘‘Spartan Pride,’’ would inspire students. 
He installed it six years ago, just after 
the college football team’s inaugural season 
in a brand-new stadium. 
Players quickly made the monument the 
focus of a new Castleton tradition, stopping 
to touch it on their way to practices and 
games. It offers no guarantees of victory on 
the field but is an apt symbol for the little 
college’s fighting spirit to survive—and 
make a name for itself—in the increasingly 
competitive world of higher education. 
For the past 14 years, Wolk has labored to 
transform Castleton from a tiny, isolated 
college into a growing university with adequate 
funding, marketable programs and satisfied 
students. Last month, it got a new 
name: Castleton State College became 
Castleton University. 
‘‘Not a lot of colleges are planning on increasing 
their enrollment these days,’’ said 
Vermont State Colleges chancellor Jeb 
Spaulding, who oversees Castleton and four 
other state colleges. ‘‘Dave’s different. His 
plan is, ‘I’m building something that’s attractive.’’’ 
‘‘He’s the pied piper of Castleton and Rutland 
County.’’ 
Just as impressive is the fact that 62–year-
old Wolk managed to remake Castleton 
while he waged another, personal battle. Beneath 
the engraved tale of the Spartan king, 
there’s a hint at that story, too. In small 
type at the bottom of the rock, it reads, ‘‘In 
honor of Dr. Diane Wolk.’’ 
Wolk’s life is so intertwined with his work 
at Castleton that he brought in this monument, 
at his own expense, not just to create 
a Castleton tradition, but as a tribute to his 
wife. Diane Wolk was a longtime teacher, 
school principal, chair of the State Board of 
Education and one-time director of student 
teaching at Castleton. She was diagnosed 
with early-onset Alzheimer’s disease in 2007, 
on her 57th birthday, four years after she 
first started noticing symptoms. 
David Wolk watched in awe as his wife accepted 
her fate and even strove to demystify 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7091 

the cruel disease. In 2008, she rallied 400 
friends to take part in a ‘‘Walk With Wolk’’ 
Alzheimer’s fundraiser, and, while the disease 
had already started to affect her mind, 
she addressed the crowd. Quoting Lou 
Gehrig, she said she felt like the luckiest 
person in the world. 

‘‘She just stood up and was very brave,’’ 
Wolk recalled. ‘‘The monument is a testament 
to a woman who had a lot of courage.’’ 
Diane Wolk died last month. 

‘‘THE CASTLETON WAY’’ 
Tony Volpone was the football coach for 
opposing Endicott College when his team visited 
Castleton State College in 2013. Endicott 
defeated Castleton 43–7 that day, but the 
‘‘losing’’ side left an indelible impression on 
Volpone. 
He saw a stately new stadium filled with 
an enthusiastic crowd, a marching band, fans 
holding tailgate parties in the parking lot, a 
bouncy house for kids. And at the end of the 
game, the team locked arms and led the 
crowd in the singing of the alma mater. 
‘‘I was so impressed with what I saw,’’ 
Volpone said. ‘‘It made me go, ‘Wow, I could 
really see myself here.’’’ A year later, he became 
Castleton’s head coach. Volpone credits 
Wolk for the scene that sold him. 
For most of those home-game Saturdays, 
Wolk is in the crowd, beaming, with his 
soon-to-be-96-year-old father, Arthur. ‘‘It’s a 
beautiful thing,’’ he said. It’s what Wolk envisioned 
when he became Castleton president 
in 2001 and set in place a 10-year plan to 
boost the college’s profile. 
Wolk was uniquely positioned when he 
took the job running the public college in his 
native Rutland County. The son of a local 
pediatrician, he graduated from Rutland 
High School and Middlebury College and 
went on to a career as a teacher, principal 
and school superintendent. Wolk also represented 
Rutland County for four years in 
the state Senate, made an unsuccessful bid 
for lieutenant governor in 1992 and served as 
chief of policy for governor Howard Dean before 
becoming state education commissioner. 
By the time he took over at Castleton, he 
had experience navigating educational and 
political waters. Wolk also brought boundless 
optimism and salesmanship to the job. 
Zachary Devoid of St. Albans, a senior 
computer information systems major and lacrosse 
player at Castleton, remembered 
meeting Wolk at the start of his freshman 
year. The president hosts a barbecue for new 
students every year at his on-campus house. 
Later, when Devoid’s lacrosse team was 
holding an all-night fundraiser in memory of 
a student, Wolk came by with pizza. 
‘‘He eats in the dining halls. He goes to 
sporting events,’’ Devoid said. ‘‘He’s very 
personable.’’ 
‘‘At orientation last year, he shook 
everybody’s hand and introduced himself. It 
was really cool,’’ said Cassie Papandrea, a 
senior English major from Orwell who was 
on campus last month getting ready for this 
year’s orientation. 
Spaulding said he visited Wolk at 
Castleton recently and went off on his own 
to the gym. When he returned to Wolk’s 
house, he said, ‘‘I asked him, ‘How come all 
these students look me in the eye and open 
the door for me?’ He said, ‘It’s the Castleton 
way. They have to open doors for people, and 
they have to pick up trash.’’’ 
In fact, there’s no rule about acting responsibly, 
but Devoid said the campus is so 
close-knit that people just do. 
Wolk has created a campus atmosphere 
that makes students want to stay, said Scott 
Giles, president of Vermont Student Assistance 
Corp., whose organization administers 
college loans and interacts with a wide variety 
of colleges. Although its student-reten


tion rate hasn’t budged much in the last decade—
it’s average, at 73 percent—Castleton’s 
six-year graduation rate has climbed by 
nearly 10 percent. Enrollment has grown 
from 1,598 in 2000 to 2,183 last year. The goal 
is to reach 2,500 by 2023. 

Students, faculty and outsiders have noticed 
a difference. 

‘‘Castleton has been one of the real success 
stories,’’ Giles said, likening its emergence 
to Champlain College’s transformation from 
a two-year to a four-year school a decade and 
a half ago. 

‘‘Dave has been really, really successful in 
taking an institution that had a reputation 
as something of a suitcase college—where 
you can get a solid degree but you leave to 
do other things on the weekend,’’ Giles said. 
‘‘What he’s really done is transform the campus. 
It’s a community that meets a student’s 
full range of needs.’’ 

DOUBLE DUTY 

Not every faculty member was convinced 
Castleton needed football, according to 
Louis ‘‘Tersh’’ Palmer, a union rep and 
English professor. Some ‘‘would like to see 
more emphasis on academics,’’ he said, and 
‘‘throw all the rest of that stuff out.’’ 

The football program has had some problems. 
In 2011, its first coach was forced to resign 
after allegedly violating National Collegiate 
Athletic Association rules by arranging 
loans for an athlete. In 2013, six players 
were suspended from the team following a 
scheme to steal sporting goods from a store. 

In both cases, Wolk publicly acknowledged 
the fumbles and recovered the ball. ‘‘We will 
stay positive and upbeat as we move forward 
together as a family,’’ he said in response to 
the 2013 case. 

He took the same approach to his wife’s illness. 
Diane Wolk, who’d been named the 
state’s teacher of the year in 1984, was the 
popular principal of Rutland’s Northeast Primary 
School when Alzheimer’s began to 
manifest itself. In his Woodruff Hall office, 
Wolk keeps a photo of her 2006 retirement; it 
shows his wife surrounded by smiling children—
a happy spin on a somber moment. 

Wolk likes to focus on the positive. He 
hands out cards printed in Castleton green 
that say, ‘‘Keep smiling.’’ And, amazingly, it 
works. 

He tried to follow his own advice during 
the nine-year ordeal that Wolk calls the 
‘‘long goodbye.’’ But he also acknowledged 
it’s been a roller-coaster ride. Asked how he 
managed the double duties of handling his 
wife’s illness and raising the college’s profile—
two long but very different journeys— 
Wolk said candidly, ‘‘I didn’t.’’ 

He relied on his team at Castleton, he said, 
and there were times he considered quitting 
to become his wife’s full-time nurse. But as 
the disease progressed, Wolk realized she 
needed professional care. Diane had chosen 
to move to Florida, where she could participate 
in Alzheimer’s research and access different 
levels of specialized care. Wolk said 
his wife actually preferred being far away because 
it spared her friends and colleagues the 
pain of watching her decline. ‘‘She didn’t 
want to make them sad,’’ he said with admiration. 
But for Wolk, who visited many 
weekends, it was a long haul. 

‘‘I think it’s been very difficult,’’ said 
Spaulding, who served in the state Senate 
with Wolk in the 1980s. ‘‘But I think 
Castleton University is part of his family. 
It’s part of what’s enabled him to continue.’’ 

Wolk confirmed that Castleton was his salvation 
during that decade of decline. ‘‘I was 
able to dive into the college,’’ he said. ‘‘It 
gave new meaning to my life.’’ 

Castleton had 12 athletic teams when Wolk 
arrived on campus. It now has 27, which is 
more than any other Vermont state college 

or the University of Vermont. The school is 
providing Vermont students with an opportunity 
to play college sports in their home 
state. And they’re tuition-paying students. 
Because it is Division III, Castleton doesn’t 
offer athletic scholarships. 

The school has added a lot more than 
sports teams. It has invested more than $75 
million in new construction and renovations 
to every building on campus. The college has 
gone from offering one master’s degree to 10, 
with plans to add doctorates in education 
and nursing practice. 

While some Vermont state colleges have 
endured layoffs, Castleton has avoided them, 
according to Wolk. The college does plan to 
cut one program next year, though: its associate’s 
degree in nursing, a program that 
Vermont Technical College offers. 

Wolk has also launched a variety of branded 
initiatives that are generating revenue: 
The Castleton Polling Institute, which conducts 
paid surveys for Vermont politicians 
and media outlets, is expanding and going 
national; the Castleton Center for Schools 
brought 800 Vermont teachers to campus this 
summer for continuing education; the 
Castleton Downtown Gallery showcases art— 
and the Castleton name—in downtown Rutland. 
The university also owns the Spartan 
Arena at Rutland’s Diamond Run Mall, a 
public operation that gives students real-
world business experience. The college 
bought the building to accommodate its 
men’s and women’s hockey teams, which 
Wolk started in 2003. When they aren’t practicing 
or playing there, it’s a rental rink and 
fitness center. 

The income-generating programs have 
been developed in response to a shrinking 
pool of college-age students and declining 
state funding. Vermont routinely ranks near 
the bottom in state support for its public 
colleges. This year, Vermont State Colleges 
will receive $24.4 million from the state, 
which is split equally among the five colleges. 
Castleton’s allotment pays just 10 percent 
of its budget. 

‘‘We’re getting less money from the state 
this year than we got in 2008 or ’09,’’ Wolk 
said, and he knows enough about Vermont 
politics to realize that is unlikely to change 
anytime soon. 

The name change is also intended to counteract 
the lack of state funding. Wolk said 
he hopes Castleton University will attract 
more out-of-state students, who pay higher 
tuition. Currently, 74 percent of its students 
are in-staters. By 2023, Castleton’s goal is to 
have a 60–40 in-state versus out-of-state 
split. Wolk said Castleton’s main mission remains 
to serve Vermonters but will reflect 
the reality that there are fewer college-age 
students in the state. Castleton’s other programs 
within the community, including the 
polling institute and the Spartan Arena, are 
examples of other ways it’s contributing to 
the public good. 

Particularly for international students 
who equate the word ‘‘college’’ with high 
school, the ‘‘university’’ designation should 
send a clearer message. Castleton had 25 students 
from other countries last year and expects 
50 this year, Wolk said. The college 
upped its overseas admissions efforts by hiring 
a Chinese-American recruitment coordinator 
and making two trips to China last 
year, he said. As part of a residency, 13 Chinese 
scholars are due on campus this fall. 

During the 15 years he’s taught at 
Castleton, English prof Palmer has seen enrollment 
and programs expand and the quality 
of students grow. ‘‘There really has been 
an improvement in morale, in offerings,’’ he 
said. Football, he acknowledged, helped. 

WHAT’S IN A NAME CHANGE? 
As Vermont’s colleges struggle with dwindling 
resources and occasional layoffs, can 


S7092 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

the state afford to keep all five alive—plus 
the University of Vermont? In a recent commentary, 
Hinesburg author Bill Schubart 
took on the issue, arguing, ‘‘Vermonters 
can’t adequately fund six colleges in a time 
of declining enrollments.’’ He contended that 
renaming Castleton was not the answer. 

‘‘I really doubt that their new name will do 
much to solve the enrollment and cost challenges 
facing all our small state colleges, to 
say nothing of our students,’’ he said. 

Spaulding, who took over as chancellor 
last year, said he’s heard all of those arguments 
before, but he sees no reason to consolidate. 
‘‘We actually need the colleges we 
have,’’ he said. 

Spaulding argued that Castleton’s name 
change will be good for all of them, adding 
that none of the other college administrators 
objected. 

Each of the state colleges has—and should 
have—its own identity, Spaulding said. Lyndon 
has the largest percentage of out-of-
staters, a strong meteorology program and 
an innovative electronic journalism program. 
Johnson is known for external degrees 
for nontraditional students, social service 
programs and the performing arts. The bread 
and butter of Vermont Technical College is 
its two-year engineering degree. Community 
College of Vermont offers an affordable start 
for students of all ethnicities and socioeconomic 
backgrounds. 

Castleton’s specialty is being less specialized. 
‘‘It’s a small university that has a robust 
graduate program combined with broad 
academic programs,’’ Spaulding said. ‘‘It’s 
the only public higher ed institution in 
Vermont with a football team, and it’s got a 
very lively campus.’’ 

Wolk acknowledged that the name change 
is really about perception. 

When Richard Stockton College of New 
Jersey became Stockton University this 
year, the goal was to ‘‘raise the school’s profile, 
helping it attract faculty, students—especially 
graduate and international students—
and raise funds,’’ the Philadelphia Inquirer 
reported. 

Massachusetts state colleges changed their 
names in 2010, though they retained the word 
‘‘state,’’ so that Bridgewater State College 
became Bridgewater State University. 

Castleton students are buying into the idea 
that Castleton University carries just a little 
bit more prestige. ‘‘It means we’re expanding, 
we’re growing,’’ said Papandrea. 

‘‘It’s going to help the college bring in 
more students,’’ Devoid said. It might look a 
little jazzier on his re´sume´, too, he said. 

For Wolk, the name change marks a major 
milestone for Castleton, which has actually 
had seven other appellations since 1787: It’s 
been Rutland County Grammar School, 
Vermont Classical High School, Castleton 
Seminary, State Normal School at 
Castleton, Castleton Normal School and 
Castleton State Teachers College. The 
Castleton State College designation dates to 
1962. 

‘‘Modernizing our name reflects who we’ve 
become and who we aspire to be,’’ he said. 
‘‘It’s a wonderful turning point for a wonderful 
institution.’’ 

The idea for the name change emerged two 
or three years ago as Castleton administrators 
crafted Wolk’s second 10-year plan. Although 
he was a driving force behind it, the 
visionary president had to miss some of the 
meetings that made it happen, during which 
his staff pitched the idea to the Vermont 
State College committees. In the last few 
months, as his wife’s health worsened, he 
spent more time in Florida than Vermont. 
He was with Diane when she died there on 
July 4. 

‘‘Our goal was that her death be peaceful 
and painless,’’ he said. ‘‘It was that.’’ In the 

weeks after, Wolk received hundreds of messages 
from his wife’s former students, colleagues 
and friends telling him how much 
Diane had meant to them. 

‘‘Kids just loved her,’’ said David Blow, a 
Castleton journalism professor who had 
Diane as a first-grade teacher. His mother, 
Lucille, who taught alongside her at Barstow 
Memorial School in Chittenden, told her son 
that Wolk’s was the most difficult condolence 
card she has ever had to write. 

When the full Vermont State Colleges 
Board of Trustees gathered July 23 to make 
a final decision on the name change, David 
Wolk traveled to Montpelier for the meeting. 
‘‘I just wanted to be there, because it was 
historic,’’ he said. The vote was unanimous. 
Word went viral as Castleton spokesman Jeff 
Weld announced the move on Twitter and 
Facebook, and the university’s website got 
more than 10,000 hits. 

Afterward, Wolk continued on to Burlington 
to board a plane for Florida, where 
two days later family gathered for a celebration 
of Diane’s life. In his eulogy, Wolk 
spoke about his wife’s courage. 

‘‘Her life was full of teachable moments, 
and this was the final one,’’ he said. 

Diane Wolk’s family members divided her 
ashes for each to scatter as he or she wished. 
The next week, Wolk returned to Castleton. 
That Friday afternoon, he and two of their 
four children went to the Spartan monument 
and spread her remains at the base of the 
rock that honors and encourages brave souls. 

f 

REMEMBERING DOUG KENDALL 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, this past 
weekend, I learned of the untimely 
passing of Doug Kendall, founder of the 
Constitutional Accountability Center. 
Doug was a true visionary who helped 
transform how the American public 
views our Constitution. Despite a recent 
movement to interpret our founding 
charter in a cramped manner that 
too often leaves our most vulnerable 
populations unprotected, Doug was 
able to serve as a forceful counterweight 
and guardian of an inclusive, 
progressive, and faithful understanding 
of our National Charter, based on both 
the text and history of the document. 

Under his leadership, the Constitutional 
Accountability Center revitalized 
the debate over the original understanding 
of the Constitution. Doug refused 
to cede the intellectual ground of 
originalism and textualism to conservative 
advocates. Significantly, the organization 
he founded was defined as 
much by its scholarship as its effective 
advocacy. 

Doug made myriad contributions to 
the world of law and policy, but I will 
point out just two. First, I asked him 
to testify in March 2010 before the Senate 
Judiciary Committee on the Supreme 
Court’s decision in Citizens 
United v. FEC because I knew that no 
one could better articulate the harm 
that the decision would cause to our 
democracy. As he eloquently testified 
before the Committee, ‘‘Since the 
Founding, the idea that corporations 
have the same fundamental rights as 
‘We the People’ has been anathema to 
our Constitution. . . . Corporations do 
not vote, they cannot run for office, 
and they are not endowed by the Creator 
with inalienable rights. ‘We the 

People’ create corporations and we provide 
them with special privileges that 
carry with them restrictions that do 
not apply to living persons. These 
truths are self-evident, and it’s past 
time for the Court to finally get this 
right, once and for all.’’ While the 
Court was unable to get it right in 
Doug’s lifetime, I believe his views will 
come to be vindicated in time. 

Second, this past year, I introduced a 
joint resolution with Senator MIKE LEE 
of Utah, celebrating the sesquicentennial 
or the 150th anniversary of the 
13th Amendment, which, along with 
the 14th and 15th Amendments, make 
up our Nation’s ‘‘second founding.’’ The 
second founding, which has served as 
the bedrock and inspiration to procuring 
equality for racial minorities 
and women, has too often been overlooked 
by the general public and constitutional 
scholars. Doug and his organization 
were the intellectual driving 
force behind advancing this important 
resolution. His contributions to 
the world of law and policy will be 
sorely missed. 

As accomplished as he was as an advocate 
and scholar, Doug was an even 
better person. My staff met with him 
countless times and always came away 
inspired by his intellect and humanity. 
An article in the Washington Post from 
January 2008 about the historic endorsement 
that then-candidate and 
Senator Barack Obama received from 
Senator Ted Kennedy noted that Doug 
was there with his then 8-year old 
daughter, Miracle. Doug had pulled 
Miracle out of her elementary school 
that day so that she could experience 
the historic nature of the President’s 
candidacy and the bridge between 
former President Kennedy and future 
President Obama. He stated in the article 
that he wanted his daughter, Miracle, 
to be inspired. What she will come 
to know—if she does not already—is 
that her father’s life and his accomplishments 
have helped to inspire a 
new generation. Doug Kendall has reminded 
us about the ever-more inclusive 
story that is reflected in our Constitution. 
His life was cut short, but his 
vision—like the Constitution itself— 
will continue to endure and inspire. 
The Nation has lost a true patriot with 
his passing. 

f 

RECOGNIZING KING ARTHUR 
FLOUR 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, each 
year, it is with great pride that I participate 
in a reception here on Capitol 
Hill to showcase some of the best products 
conceived, developed, and produced 
in Vermont. One such company 
featured at the annual Taste of 
Vermont event is King Arthur Flour, 
where, for 225 years, generation after 
generation has produced quality cooking 
and baking ingredients. 

A firm that was born in Boston more 
than two centuries ago, in 1984 then-
owners Frank and Brinna Sands moved 
King Arthur Flour to Norwich, 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7093 

Vermont, and the company has become 
a staple in Vermont’s business community. 
In the 1990s, the Sands made the 
decision to sell their company to their 
employees. The returns have been considerable, 
and the company has seen 
growth ever since. 

In ways that are typical of Vermont 
businesses, King Arthur Flour has 
evolved into a quality company offering 
quality products to its customers. 
The company’s business model reflects 
one that is committed to its customers, 
its employees, the environment, 
and its community, even offering 
employees 40 hours of paid volunteer 
time to give back. Those commitments 
are backed up in its status as a certified 
B Corporation, a designation 
that independently recognizes the company’s 
social sustainability and environmental 
performance standards. 

From breads to cakes, cookies to 
pies, King Arthur Flour’s products 
have become staples in bakers’ kitchens 
across the country, including in 
the Leahy kitchen, where Marcelle regularly 
shares her recipes with our 
grandchildren. In fact, many of our visits 
to the Upper Valley include a detour 
to King Arthur’s terrific cafe 
where all of their superb products are 
available. It is yet another example of 
a tried and true Vermont-based company, 
revolutionizing and enticing the 
market with its quality products. 

I ask unanimous consent to have 
printed in the RECORD an August 28, 
2015, article from the Burlington Free 
Press recognizing King Arthur Flour’s 
‘‘225 years of baking history.’’ 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

[From the Burlington Free Press, Aug. 28, 

2015] 

KING ARTHUR FLOUR: 225 YEARS OF BAKING 

HISTORY 

(By Susan Reid) 

Some 225 years ago George Washington delivered 
the first State of the Union address 
in January. In February, the U.S. Supreme 
Court met for the first time. Vermont itself 
wasn’t yet a state. According to King 
George, it belonged to New York, despite 
also being known as the New Hampshire 
Grants. 

In this world, miles away in Boston, a man 
named Henry Wood started a company that 
imported flour from England. The brand new 
United States of America numbered fewer 
than four million souls. Wood correctly assumed 
this growing country was going to 
need flour for baking, and his commitment 
to pure, high-quality flour fueled a successful 
business. 

ENTER JOHN LOW SANDS 
One of the early employees was John Low 
Sands, who joined the firm in 1820. It was the 
beginning of generations of Sands family association 
with, and eventual ownership of 
the company. Also a clue to how the company 
came to be based in Vermont, as you’ll 
soon see. By 1853, the company was doing 
well enough to buy a large building on the 
Long Wharf in Boston. There, in the middle 
of one of the world’s busiest ports, the business 
continued to grow, taking on partners 
as it expanded. In less than 10 years the city 
of Boston had filled in the harbor around the 
wharf, and the company became landlocked 

without ever having moved. It stayed in the 
same spot, with the revised address of 172 
State St. until 1904, when the company 
moved up the street to the Custom House. 

By 1895, the company was named Sands, 
Taylor, & Wood. The third generation of the 
Sands family to be part of the company, 
Orrin Sands, was its president. During this 
decade, roller milling was developed in Hungary. 
As a result, it was now possible to 
grind large quantities of wheat into flour 
very quickly. This led to a boom in flour production, 
as well as wild fluctuations in the 
quality of flour being produced. 

At the same time, George Wood and his 
business partners attended a musical play 
based on the story of King Arthur and his 
knights. They left the theater inspired by 
the realization that the values portrayed in 
the play exemplified what their company 
stood for: quality, integrity, purity, loyalty, 
strength, and dedication to a higher purpose. 
They resolved to rename their new flagship 
product, their all-purpose flour, after King 
Arthur. It was introduced at the Boston 
Food Fair in September 1896, and became an 
immediate success. The distinctive image of 
the medieval knight on his horse adorned the 
tops of 196 pound barrels of flour for the next 
four decades, until he started being printed 
on newfangled paper bags. 

In the 1920s King Arthur on his steed appeared 
on the back of a flatbed calliope 
truck that roamed the streets of Boston and 
New York. In later decades the company 
gave scholarships to promising young professional 
bakers, inserted collectible picture 
cards of American military ships, airplanes, 
and weapons in its flour bags during World 
War II, and after the war sponsored radio 
shows where ‘‘New England’s Food Expert’’ 
Marjorie Mills endorsed King Arthur Flour 
on the air. 

THE MOVE TO VERMONT 

The Sands family became the sole owners 
of the company in 1932, and in 1984, Frank (a 
Dartmouth alum) and his wife Brinna Sands 
moved the company to Vermont. Tired of 
lugging bags of flour to the post office to 
mail to retirees in Florida who couldn’t buy 
King Arthur outside of New England, Brinna 
started The Baker’s Catalogue in 1990. 

She also published the ‘‘200th Anniversary 
Cookbook,’’ which has sold well over 100,000 
copies to date. 

In a pivotal move, Frank and Brinna decided 
to sell the company to their employees, 
launching King Arthurs Employee Stock 
Ownership plan. The company has seen 
steady growth since then. 

By 1999, the company officially changed its 
name to King Arthur Flour, and the Baker’s 
Catalogue was mailing six million catalogues 
per year. Distribution of the flour to 
grocery stores up and down the East Coast 
was well established, and expanding steadily 
westward. In 2000, Vermont Gov. Howard 
Dean was on hand to break an oversized baguette 
in two to celebrate the opening of the 
bakery and school in Norwich. In 2004 the 
company became 100 percent employee-
owned. 

With all of these changes, the principles 
that the company began with survived and 
thrived. In 2007, King Arthur Flour was a 
founding and certified B Corp. Its bylaws reflect 
a commitment to all stakeholders, including 
the community and the environment, 
as well as shareholders and business 
partners. 

Now a national brand known for its quality, 
customer service, and expertise in all 
things baking, King Arthur has grown both 
the brand and its service programs. Bake for 
Good: Kids teaches 8- to 12-year olds how to 
bake bread in a curriculum-based program 
that provides a community service compo


nent of giving a loaf back to someone in 
need. King Arthur has long had a policy of 
giving 40 paid hours of volunteer time to all 
employees, full- and part-time. 

King Arthur’s mission and personality is to 
be a resource for all bakers. It maintains a 
robust social media presence on Instagram, 
Twitter, Facebook, and on its blog, Flourish. 
The website has thousands of tested recipes, 
and there’s a crew of baking experts on the 
Baker’s Hotline ready to answer any baking 
question, either by phone or via online chat. 

King Arthur is poised to further the quest 
for honest, homemade, local food, by providing 
everything one needs to bake. Lucky 
for the company, and Vermont, that appetite 
is timeless, and a good apple pie is never 
going to go out of style. 

WHAT’S BAKING IN NORWICH 
Baking classes: You can always come and 
take a class at the Baking Education Center 
in Norwich (no dishwashing required!). The 
calendar of classes for home bakers, kids, 
and professionals can be found at 
kingarthurflour.com/school. 
Cafe and bakery: The cafe and bakery are 
open daily 7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. In September, 
the store’s demonstration kitchen will be 
showing all comers how to make their best 
pie crust and baking with apples and cinnamon, 
chocolate and pumpkin. 
Baker’s Conference. From Sept. 9 to Sept. 
12, King Arthur will sponsor its Third Annual 
Baker’s Conference, Tasting Supper, 
and Harvest Festival at the King Arthur 
Baker’s Store and School in Norwich. 
The two-day conference features demonstrations, 
hands-on classes, and breakout 
sessions with a roster of well-known bakers, 
authors, recipe developers, photographers 
and editors. 
The conference wraps up Friday evening, 
Sept. 11, with a Tasting Supper to benefit 
Hunger Free Vermont, from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 

p.m. Local food and beverage establishments 
will offer samples, featuring fresh local foods 
and drink. 
The festival happens from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
on Saturday, Sept. 12, with hands-on activities 
for kids, live baking competitions, entertainment, 
and great food. 

For more festival information, go to 
kingarthurflour.com/bakers-harvest. 

ABOUT KING ARTHUR FLOUR 

Celebrating its 225th Anniversary, King Arthur 
Flour is America’s oldest flour company 
and premier baking resource, offering ingredients, 
mixes, tools, recipes, educational opportunities 
and inspiration to bakers everywhere 
since 1790. The company’s flour is 
available in supermarkets nationwide. Additionally, 
more than 1,000 tested and trusted 
baking tools and ingredients are available 
through King Arthur Flour’s Baker’s Catalogue, 
online at kingarthurflour.com and at 
The Baker’s Store in Norwich. 

f 

2030 AGENDA FOR SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 

Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise to 
address an important event that occurred 
this week at the United Nations, 
which is marking the 70th session 
of the United Nations General Assembly, 
UNGA. 

Over the weekend, over 150 world 
leaders gathered at UNGA to adopt the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
This new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development is built on the 
progress achieved by Millennium Development 
Goals, MDGs, which were 


S7094 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

launched in 2000. The Millennium Development 
Goals brought together nations, 
businesses, international organizations, 
and foundations in a focused 
and coordinated effort to reduce poverty 
and disease by 2015. 

By any and every metric, the initial 
set of MDGs has resulted in tangible, 
concrete progress. One goal was to cut 
extreme poverty by half as measured 
by the proportion of people living on 
less than $1.25 a day. That goal was 
met 5 years ahead of schedule. Meanwhile, 
maternal mortality was cut 
nearly in half. We’ve also made 
progress in global education, with a 20 
percent increase in primary school enrollment 
in sub-Saharan Africa and a 
nearly 50 percent decrease in the number 
of out-of-school children of primary 
school age. When it comes to combating 
HIV/AIDS, we’ve made truly incredible 
strides over the past 15 years. 
New HIV infections have dropped by 40 
percent between 2000 and 2013, and the 
number of people living with HIV that 
were receiving antiretroviral therapy 
increased seventeenfold from 2003 to 
2014. 

In some areas, like gender equality, 
we still have a long way to go. But we 
can cheer the fact that, in 90 percent of 
countries today, women have greater 
parliamentary representation than 
they did just 20 years ago. 

So there is no doubt that we’ve seen 
real growth around the world. Millions 
of lives have been saved and enriched. 
But we still have more progress to 
make. 

The old Millennium Development 
Goals have laid the groundwork for the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
which was adopted by the U.N. 
over the weekend. The new agenda sets 
out an ambitious global development 
framework that includes 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals. 

These new goals were negotiated 
with strong engagement by the U.S. 
government, business leaders, and civil 
society members over the last 3 years. 
American and international corporations 
worked closely with the U.N. because 
many businesses leaders correctly 
believe that, to end extreme 
poverty and open new markets, we 
must increase government transparency, 
root out corruption, and accelerate 
inclusive economic growth. 

Many of these new goals focus on the 
areas where we hope to see additional 
progress, such as maternal and child 
health, environmental sustainability, 
and gender equality. But they also 
focus on good governance and corruption. 


I am particularly pleased at the addition 
of goal No. 16, which is to ‘‘promote 
peaceful and inclusive societies 
for sustainable development, provide 
access to justice for all and build effective, 
accountable and inclusive institutions 
at all levels.’’ Including that goal 
wasn’t easy—it was met by resistance 
from many other countries—but no one 
can ignore the fact any longer that 
good governance and anticorruption efforts 
are critical to development. 

Truly sustainable and inclusive development 
depends on governments and 
institutions that are accountable and 
transparent and that respect human 
rights and deliver justice for everybody, 
not just some. The U.N. has 
noted that ‘‘lessons learned from MDG 
implementation showed the importance 
of incorporating human rights, 
the rule of law and personal security to 
ensure progress towards development 
goals. Effective and inclusive governance 
and robust institutional capacity 
are instrumental in achieving this.’’ 

The necessity of incorporating good 
governance and strong anticorruption 
measures in sustainable development 
efforts is most evident when we look at 
resource rich countries in Africa and 
the extraordinary development challenges 
there. The Democratic Republic 
of the Congo, DRC, for example, is a 
country rich in minerals, water resources, 
and agricultural potential. 
And it has experienced high annual 
economic growth in recent years. Yet 
most of its people continue to live in 
extreme poverty. DRC’s progress on 
sustainable development is hindered by 
minimal central government control 
over large parts of the national territory, 
poor transportation and electricity 
infrastructure, the government’s 
inability to manage and monitor 
extraction of its natural resources, 
and broad governance problems including 
endemic corruption and barely 
functional state institutions. 

Without progress on justice and effective 
and accountable institutions, 
corruption will continue to infect governments 
around the world, like the 
DRC, creating greater economic and 
political instability, which often leads 
to violent conflict. 

The DRC is just one example of why 
we need goal 16. The desperate refugees 
streaming into Europe provide another 
sad example. Most of these people are 
coming from places where ordinary 
people have experienced long-term repression 
and other human rights 
abuses at the hands of deeply corrupt 
governments. Consequently, many of 
these countries are now consumed by 
violent conflict. Most of the people 
crossing the Mediterranean in rafts are 
fleeing wars in Syria, Afghanistan, 
Iraq, and Somalia. 

The Syrians are the largest group. 
They are fleeing a deadly combination 
of their own government’s indiscriminate 
barrel bomb attacks on crowded 
markets, schools, and clinics; suffocating 
sieges; and atrocities committed 
by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, 
ISIS and other extremist groups. We 
know that only a minority of migrants 
arriving in Europe are motivated solely 
by economic betterment. 

As the world focuses on the wave of 
refugees and migrants arriving in Europe, 
we must not lose our focus on the 
roots of this crisis. We must pay attention 
to why these desperate men, 
women, and children are on the move. 
The misery of many of these refugees is 
the direct result of the conflicts and 

human rights abuses of governments 
that are ineffective or illegitimate, or 
both, and mostly likely corrupt. 

The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
Goals is remarkable for the 
historic inclusion of goal 16. It acknowledges 
the centrality of good governance 
and accountable and transparent 
institutions as prerequisites for 
sustainable development. If nations 
across the globe truly embrace goal 16, 
I am convinced we will also witness far 
fewer men, women, and children being 
forced to endure extraordinary misery, 
violence, displacement, and exploitation 
as refugees. Surely, that must 
be our collective goal. 

f 

RENAMING OF THE U.S. NAVAL 
ACADEMY ADMINISTRATION 
BUILDING FOR ADMIRAL 
CHARLES R. LARSON 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, this Friday, 
October 2, 2015, the U.S. Naval 
Academy will honor ADM Charles R. 
Larson, class of 1958, by naming the administration 
building in his honor. 
Coming just a week before the Naval 
Academy celebrates its 170th anniversary, 
this is fitting tribute to man who 
has made such immeasurable contributions 
to this fine institution. 

Chuck Larson grew up thousands of 
miles from the nearest ocean. However, 
the calling of the sea brought him to 
Annapolis and the start of a career 
dedicated to the service of this great 
Nation. It was at the Academy where I 
had the distinct pleasure of getting to 
know this great man. Chuck’s Academy 
experience was somewhat different 
than mine, where he would go on 
to become the brigade commander, 
president of the class of 1958, and graduate 
near the top of the class. I finished 
some distance behind that mark. 
Even though our paths were different, I 
cherished our friendship forged in those 
shared Academy experiences, a friendship 
that would last a lifetime. 

After graduation in the summer of 
1958, Chuck would continue his exemplary 
career, eventually attaining the 
rank of admiral. He has led at every 
level from command at sea to theater 
command, as commander of the 2nd 
Fleet, a Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, 
commander of the Pacific 
Fleet, and finally as the commander of 
United States Pacific Command. Impressive 
as this resume was, the two 
jobs Chuck cherished most were his 
two tours as the Superintendent of the 
Naval Academy. 

As the only two-time Superintendent 
of the Academy in its 170-year history, 
Chuck left an indelible mark on the institution 
he so loved. Returning from 
retirement in 1994 to lead the Academy 
after serious problems left the institution 
with an uncertain future, Chuck 
focused on character development and 
fundamental leadership training to return 
to the founding principles of the 
Academy. In 4 years, he returned the 
institution to greatness and, in the 
process, trained the officers that would 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7095 

become the leaders in the fight against 
terrorism that would define a generation. 


As a result of Chuck’s tireless efforts 
and the lasting initiatives he put in 
place, today the Naval Academy consistently 
ranks among the top schools 
in the Nation. His legacy of service to 
the Academy and the Nation will be 
felt in the decades to come as graduates 
from the institution become 
leaders in the military, government, 
and corporate venues. I can think of no 
better way to honor the legacy of 
Chuck’s service than with the rededication 
of the administration building as 
Larson Hall. It will stand as an ever 
present reminder to the dedication and 
the ideals of great naval officer, leader, 
and dear friend. 

f 

NATIONAL MANUFACTURING DAY 
Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I 
join with my colleagues, led by Senators 
COONS and BALDWIN, to recognize 
the significant role manufacturing 
plays in the United States and in my 
home State of Rhode Island. According 
to facts compiled by the National Association 
of Manufacturers, over 41,000 
Rhode Islanders, nearly 9 percent of 
the workforce, work in manufacturing. 
Those workers were responsible for $4.1 
billion in economic output, just under 8 
percent of the State’s total output, in 
2013. On average these workers brought 
in over $67,000 in annual compensation. 
Manufacturing is a highly technical 
and innovative industry that creates 
good-paying jobs for skilled workers. It 
is also an industry that is expanding; 
in Rhode Island manufacturing jobs 
have increased by 1,100 compared to a 
year ago. And just last week I joined a 
Rhode Island advanced manufacturer, 
Yushin America, Inc., to celebrate a 
ribbon cutting for its $2 million expansion. 
This sort of expansion is representative 
of the type of highly technical 
growth we see in manufacturing. Moreover, 
these good-paying, highly-skilled, 
middle-class jobs are what will help 
further support widespread economic 
growth. That is why I look forward to 
celebrating National Manufacturing 
Day with the mayor of Providence and 
my delegation colleagues on Monday 
and continuing to work to advance 
measures that support manufacturers 
and job creation back home. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO JEFFREY F. PANIATI 
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I wish to 
pay tribute to an outstanding civil 
servant and constituent, Jeffrey F. 
Paniati, executive director of the Federal 
Highway Administration, FHWA, 
who is retiring after 32 years of Federal 
service. 
Jeff Paniati received his master of 
science degree in civil engineering 
from the University of Maryland. He 
joined FHWA in 1983 as a highway engineer 
trainee and rose through the 
ranks to join the Senior Executive 

Service in 2000 and eventually became 
executive director in April 2008. The executive 
director, the number three official 
in FHWA, is the only civil service 
position in the agency that requires 
the approval of the President. As executive 
director, Jeff assists the Federal 
Highway Administrator and Deputy 
Administrator in establishing policies, 
programs, and priorities for the $40 billion 
annual Federal aid highway program. 
As FHWA’s chief operating officer, 
he oversees a workforce of approximately 
2,900 transportation professionals 
and an annual operating budget 
of $400 million. 

One of the biggest challenges Jeff 
faced came just months after he became 
executive director. The economic 
collapse in the fall of 2008 brought the 
country into the worst recession since 
the Great Depression of the 1930s. On 
February 17, 2009, President Obama 
signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act, ARRA, into law. 
ARRA, also known as the stimulus act, 
authorized $26.6 billion for road and 
bridge projects that would create construction 
jobs to help the economy recover 
while providing transportation 
facilities to make our communities 
safer, greener, more livable, less congested, 
and economically stronger. 
This funding was in addition to the 
regular $40 billion a year Federal aid 
highway program. 

At the time, Jeff was the highest 
ranking FHWA official because the 
President had not yet nominated a new 
Federal Highway Administrator or 
Deputy Administrator. It fell to Jeff, 
serving as acting Deputy Administrator, 
to ensure the agency was able 
to absorb the additional funds, deploy 
them to State and local officials for 
shovel-ready projects, ensure proper 
oversight of record numbers of 
projects, and help deliver the jobs the 
country so desperately needed. The result 
was more than 13,000 highway and 
bridge projects across the country that 
put tens of thousands of people to 
work, in addition to the thousands of 
projects and jobs resulting from regular 
program funds. All of this was accomplished 
within ARRA’s deadlines, 
without any increase in staff by FHWA 
but with the full cooperation of State 
and local transportation officials under 
the familiar Federal-State partnership 
of the Federal aid highway program. 

President Obama remarked that 
there has never been a program of this 
scale, moving at this speed, enacted as 
effectively, and meeting such high 
standards of transparency and accountability. 
The stimulus provided by implementation 
of the Recovery Act 
paved the foundation for the economic 
growth that has continued to this day. 
Many people deserve credit for this 
outstanding accomplishment, including 
FHWA employees around the country, 
especially Jeff Paniati. 

Throughout Jeff’s earlier career in 
FHWA, he accumulated a diverse range 
of experience in helping to make America’s 
transportation systems work safe


ly and efficiently. He served as chief of 
the safety design division, a research 
office helping to advance the state of 
the art in highway safety. As program 
manager for Intelligent Transportation 
Systems, ITS, he led the more than 
$100 million annual Federal ITS program. 
He directed day-to-day operations 
of the ITS Joint Program Office, 
which focuses on bringing advanced 
communication and information system 
technologies to the management 
and operation of our Nation’s surface 
transportation system. At the time of 
his appointment as executive director, 
he was FHWA’s associate administrator 
for operations; in this capacity, 
he provided national leadership in system 
management and operations, ITS 
deployment, and freight management. 
Throughout Jeff’s career, he has 
worked closely with the Transportation 
Research Board, the American 
Association of State Highway and 
Transportation Officials, and ITS 
America—to name just a few of 
FHWA’s many partners and stakeholders. 


Jeff’s extensive experience throughout 
the agency gave him the background 
to move FHWA forward. He 
oversaw the successful implementation 
of the many program changes required 
under the Moving Ahead for Progress 
in the 21st Century Act, MAP–21, in 
2012. Perhaps the most significant 
change was that MAP–21 shifted FHWA 
to risk-based stewardship and oversight 
that redefined FHWA’s role in 
working with its State and local partners. 
It also gave FHWA the leadership 
role in transitioning with its partners 
to a transportation performance management 
focus that emphasizes a strategic 
approach by using data to make 
investment and policy decisions to 
achieve national performance goals. 
These dramatic changes in operation of 
the Federal aid highway program required 
extensive outreach, which Jeff 
coordinated, to explain the shifts to 
FHWA’s partners and gain their support 
for them. 

Jeff played a leadership role in advancing 
U.S. interests and bolstering 
international cooperation under the 
auspices of the World Road Association, 
where he served as U.S. first delegate 
and chair of the strategic planning 
commission. He led an international 
team in overseeing the work 
of the association’s 15 technical committees 
and the development of its 
next strategic plan. He also facilitated 
efforts to advance special reports on 
the importance of road maintenance 
and helped produce a climate change 
adaptation framework. Jeff’s involvement 
in the association enabled the 

U.S. to further enhance our international 
leadership and expertise in 
the design, delivery, and operation of 
highway and road networks. 
Closer to home, Jeff never forgot the 
importance of giving all FHWA employees 
the opportunity to advance in 
their careers. He listened to employee 
feedback, administered a strategic 


S7096 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

workforce assessment, established a 
formal mentoring program, developed 
the leadership for innovation decision-
making program and expanded the 
Leadership Development Academy, and 
instilled in leadership ranks throughout 
the FHWA the value of expanding 
opportunity. Initiatives of this type 
are valuable to employees and their 
families, but are also critical to ensuring 
the FHWA can meet the challenges 
of the future by helping the agency to 
recruit and retain the best public servants 
our Nation has to offer. Through 
these and other initiatives, Jeff helped 
make FHWA successful not only in accomplishing 
its vitally important mission, 
but in making the agency a better 
place to work. Among agencies of its 
size, FHWA has ranked in the top 10 
best places to work in the Federal Government 
among agency subcomponents 
for the past 3 years. Under Jeff’s leadership, 
FHWA moved from No. 33 in 
2009 to No. 5 in 2013, an impressive 
achievement in a short period of time. 

Jeff will be retiring this month after 
32 years of Federal service to become 
president and chief executive officer of 
the Institute of Transportation Engineers. 
After his long career and especially 
his 71/2 years as executive director, 
Jeff leaves FHWA a better place, 
which is good for America. I am proud 
to represent Jeff and so many other 
Federal workers. I believe our Federal 
workforce is the best in the world. We 
are fortunate to have dedicated, talented, 
creative, hard-working, and patriotic 
public servants like Jeff. I ask 
my colleagues to join me in thanking 
Jeff for serving the American public 
with such distinction and devotion and 
wishing him much success as he leaves 
Federal service. We also need to thank 
his wife, Kim, and his children Chris 
and Lauren for supporting him in his 
public career. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO SYLVIA OLIVER 
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, there 
are many people who work behind the 
scenes to help the Senate function. We 
tend to take them for granted, but we 
shouldn’t. I would like to take this opportunity 
to acknowledge one such 
Senate staffer, Sylvia Oliver, who is 
leaving at the end of this week. I won’t 
say that Sylvia is retiring because 
there is a chance we can coax her into 
returning at some point. But she is 
leaving her job as coordinator of the 
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD in the Office of 
the Official Reporters of Debates because 
she wants to spend more time at 
home with her daughter, Lily, who is a 
senior in high school. That is a completely 
understandable and laudable 
desire. 
Few people appreciate that even 
though the Office of the Official Reporters 
of Debates has embraced the 
latest information technology, producing 
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD remains 
a painstaking, labor-intensive 
process. Even fewer people appreciate 
that the officials and employees like 

Sylvia who are responsible for its production 
typically have to work for several 
hours each night after the Senate 
has adjourned making sure the RECORD 
is accurate and complete before sending 
it to the Government Publishing 
Office. We take for granted that a 
printed copy of the RECORD, one of the 
most important documents in our Nation, 
will be delivered to our offices the 
next morning. There are many people 
who work late into the night without 
fanfare or accolades to make this possible. 
They are an invaluable part of 
what I call the Senate family. 

Sylvia is a Vermont native and graduated 
from the University of Vermont. 
She still visits her mother, Betty Reid, 
in Barre as often as possible and is 
close to her siblings, John Reid, Betsy 
Reid, David Reid, and Sarah Schroeder. 
She started her congressional service 
on the House side in 1988 working for 
then-Representative Jim Jeffords of 
Vermont. She came with him to the 
Senate in 1989. She returned to the 
House for a few years, working as an 
executive assistant to the House Sergeant 
at Arms. Then, she came back to 
the Senate in 1993, where she worked as 
a scheduler and executive assistant for 
Senator Byron Dorgan of North Dakota 
and the Senate Committee on Indian 
Affairs before assuming her current job 
with the Office of the Official Reporters 
of Debates. She is unfailingly professional 
and polite. We will all miss 
her, but I know her colleagues in the 
Office of the Official Reporters of Debates 
will miss her the most because 
she is such a kind and gentle and pleasant 
person. 

I am proud to have Sylvia as a constituent. 
She lives near Annapolis; and, 
true to the rural roots of her Vermont 
upbringing, she has made her home 
atop a converted barn. Even though she 
works long hours in the Senate, she has 
usually done more each morning before 
she arrives here than most people accomplish 
in a week. She maintains a 
small farm and looks after three horses 
whose names are Conge, Chance, and 
Love It. She starts most mornings by 
mowing acres of pasture, hauling dozens 
of bales of hay, and feeding the 
chickens. She also has a small pumpkin 
patch. But that is not enough for 
Sylvia—she has a number of bee hives 
to look after, too. 

Lily Oliver, who has graciously 
shared her mother with us, has said, 
‘‘My mom is the most beautiful person 
I know. She makes the world a better 
place by always treating those around 
her with compassion and patience. I am 
so fortunate to have such a strong, 
genuine, resourceful, mother to emulate 
throughout life.’’ Well, we have 
been so fortunate to have Sylvia in the 
Senate family for the past 20-plus 
years. The American people are so fortunate 
to have talented and dedicated 
public servants like Sylvia. I truly believe 
our Federal workforce is the best 
in the world. 

I ask my colleagues to join me in 
thanking Sylvia Oliver for her exem


plary service and wishing her well as 
she begins the next chapter in her life 
with the most important family of all, 
her own. 

f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

ROBIN TRIPOD PATTEN 

S Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I wish 
to honor Robin Tripod Patten as a 2015 
Angel in Adoption award recipient for 
her outstanding advocacy of adoption 
issues. Robin serves as Director of Social 
Services at Arkansas Methodist 
Medial Center, AMMC, in Paragould, 
AR. One of her many responsibilities in 
this position includes coordinating 
adoptions. 

Being a bereaved parent herself, 
Robin offers a unique perspective to 
the adoption process because she understands 
the pain of giving birth and 
leaving the hospital without a baby. 
She provides emotional support to both 
the birth mother and the adoptive parents 
and assists new and prospective 
parents in navigating complicated 
legal matters when contemplating 
adoption. 

Robin is a Licensed Master Social 
Worker, LMSW, and dedicates her life 
to children. She is a mandated child 
abuse reporter who directs care of infants 
whose birth mothers had illegal 
substances in her system during pregnancy. 
For 11 years, she has served on 
the Greene County multidisciplinary 
child abuse task force working to ensure 
no child is overlooked or forgotten. 


I am proud of Robin for her dedication 
to adoption services and for investing 
in the lives of families in 
northeast Arkansas and am glad to recognize 
Robin as an Angel in Adoption 
for her efforts to connect children to 
permanent families. I commend her for 
her service and ask my colleagues to 
join me in honoring her and the many 
other advocates who continue to selflessly 
work to ensure that all children 
grow up in safe, healthy, and loving 
homes.S 

f 

OBSERVING THE 250TH ANNIVER


SARY OF THE REPUDIATION OF 

THE BRITISH STAMP ACT 

S Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I wish to 
honor the actions of ‘‘12 immortal justices’’ 
of the Frederick County Court 
in Maryland who refused to discharge 
the British Stamp Act on November 23, 
1765. This first official act of defiance 
against the British Government’s ‘‘taxation 
without representation’’ in the 
Thirteen Original Colonies—8 years before 
the Boston Tea Party—helped set 
the stage for the American Revolution 
that would lead to a free and independent 
United States of America. 

The Stamp Act the British Parliament 
passed in early 1765 exacted 
revenue from the Colonies by imposing 
a stamp duty on newspapers and legal 
and commercial documents. Colonists 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7097 

in Maryland quickly realized that the 
Stamp Act and other new taxes would 
severely impede trade in the Colonies 
and hinder their economic growth. 
Jonas Green, the publisher of the 
Maryland Gazette at the time, used his 
platform as the only news outlet in the 
colony to stir opposition to the actions 
of the British Parliament among Marylanders. 
As protests turned to revolts, 
plans to distribute stamped paper were 
delayed, which made stamped paper in 
Frederick County and Western Maryland 
unavailable. When the county’s 
clerk of the court refused to carry out 
the business of the court without 
stamped paper, Frederick County’s 12 
justices responded by holding him in 
contempt and unanimously passing the 
resolution that would come to be 
known as the Repudiation Act, allowing 
business to continue without the 
use of stamped paper and effectively 
nullifying the act of Parliament. The 
text of the Repudiation Act stated: 
‘‘that all proceedings shall be valid 
without the use of stamps... and ordering 
all sheriffs, clerks, counsellors, 
and officers of the Court to proceed 
with their several avocations as usual, 
without delay occasionded from the 
want of stamped paper, parchment or 
vellum.’’ The justices took this action 
at great peril to their livelihood and 
even their lives. 

Since 1894, Repudiation Day has been 
marked by the Maryland General Assembly 
as an official bank half-holiday 
in Frederick County and by the Frederick 
Chapter of the Daughters of the 
American Revolution with celebratory 
events. This year, which marks the 
250th anniversary of this courageous 
act of defiance by 12 Maryland justices, 
will be particularly special with a parade, 
dedication of an interpretive 
plaque, educational presentations, and 
public display of the original court act. 
In addition, Frederick’s Brewer’s Alley 
has collaborated with the Sergeant 
Lawrence Everhart Chapter of the Sons 
of the American Revolution on the release 
of the 250th Anniversary Commemorative 
‘‘Twelve Immortals Ale’’ 
inspired by the beers of the 18th Century. 


I commend the Daughters of the 
American Revolution, the Sons of the 
American Revolution, Brewer’s Alley, 
the Tourism Council of Frederick 
County, the city of Frederick, and everyone 
else involved in the effort to 
honor the brave actions of these 12 
Marylanders and encourage every 
American to commemorate the 250th 
anniversary of an event that sparked 
the first flames of liberty in the American 
Colonies.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO SALLY ASCHIM 
S Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I rise 
today in recognition of Sally Aschim, 
who is retiring after 38 years of dedicated 
teaching. 
Not only has Sally aided in the 
achievements and successes of Montana’s 
youth, but she also has spear


headed multiple community outreach 
projects aimed at helping those in her 
community. She took her passion for 
helping Montana’s youth outside of the 
classroom as well and helped design 
and build a playground in Sunburst, 
Montana. 

In Montana, we know how important 
it is to give back to our communities 
and help one another, and Sally is a 
perfect example of this. Sally started 
the Christmas Stroll in Sunburst over 
a decade ago, which has enhanced the 
holiday for hundreds of community 
members. 

Sally has a selfless heart and does everything 
with a giving spirit. The 
State of Montana is sad to see her 
teaching career come to an end, but 
her incredible legacy will continue to 
live on.S 

f 

CARNEGIE HALL 
S Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, 
with great pleasure and pride, I wish to 
recognize the 125th anniversary of Carnegie 
Hall in New York City. At the 
ceremonial laying of the cornerstone of 
Carnegie Hall in 1890, Andrew Carnegie 
declared: ‘‘It is built to stand for ages, 
and during these ages it is probable 
that this Hall will intertwine itself 
with the history of our country.’’ 
The Hall has intertwined itself with 
the history of the United States but 
also with the history of the world. 
Today Carnegie Hall is the world’s 
most recognized performing arts center 
and is a global symbol of artistic excellence. 
For 125 years the Hall has defined 
and shaped the future of music, 
and it continues in that leadership role 
today. 
The Hall has hosted world leaders, 
American presidents, authors, activists 
and intellectuals. The Hall’s greatest 
influence, however, is through sound. 
Carnegie Hall’s three performance centers 
project all forms of music to listeners 
around the world. Musicians 
from all corners of the globe strive to 
perform at Carnegie Hall. The Hall is a 
beacon inspiring and attracting the 
world’s finest musicians in all genres. 
Less known but equally important, 
Carnegie Hall’s Weill Music Institute 
produces an extraordinary range of 
music education and community programs 
that extend far outside the physical 
walls of its concert halls. Its music 
education in New York City schools 
serves as a laboratory of best practices 
for performing arts centers in major 
urban areas. Carnegie Hall provides 
and supports a partnership curriculum 
for 81 orchestras throughout the United 
States and abroad to work with local 
school students in urban, suburban, 
and rural settings. Its highly acclaimed 
National Youth Orchestra of the 
United States—recently returned from 
a tour of China—helps build the next 
generation of musicians into lifelong 
community leaders and contributors. 
In the 2015–2016 season these programs 
will reach millions people in New York 
City, across the United States, and 
around the globe. 

In the spirit of Andrew Carnegie and 
of bold endeavors to tackle contemporary 
challenges, Carnegie Hall has 
recently initiated work to eliminate 
the music education ‘‘access gap’’ in 
schools throughout our nation. Carnegie 
Hall’s leadership, from volunteers, 
trustees, to staff at all levels, are 
committed to quality and to equity of 
opportunity regardless of circumstance. 


Carnegie Hall’s 125th opening night 
will occur on October 7th. I rise to 
commend the Hall’s leadership, volunteers, 
contributors, performing artists, 
and staff. Carnegie Hall is a global icon 
symbolizing artistic excellence, 
achievement, and the power of music 
to feed our souls and bring people together. 
Congratulations, Carnegie 
Hall.S 

f 

CONGRATULATING ALICIA REBAN 

S Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today, I 
wish to congratulate Alicia Reban on 
receiving the Ambassador of the Year 
award from the Land Trust Alliance. It 
gives me great pleasure to see her receive 
this national award recognizing 
her years of hard work within the Nevada 
community. 

Throughout her 17 years working at 
the Nevada Land Trust Alliance, Ms. 
Reban has been a shining example of 
someone who dedicated her career to 
the betterment of her community and 
Nevada’s open spaces. In 2000, she led a 
successful campaign on a ballot initiative 
focused on improving Washoe 
County’s parks, libraries, and trails. 
Additionally, in 2002, she served on the 
campaign executive committee for Nevada’s 
State Question 1 for clean 
water, parks, and wildlife, the largest 
conservation bond measure in Nevada 
history. 

Throughout her tenure, Ms. Reban 
has demonstrated professionalism, an 
unwavering commitment to conservation, 
and dedication to the highest 
standards of the Nevada Land Trust Alliance. 
I have been fortunate during my 
time in Congress to work with Ms. 
Reban on federal legislation, the Conservation 
Easement Incentive Act, S. 
330, which makes the Federal enhanced 
conservation easement income tax deduction 
permanent. This important 
policy would provide Westerners with 
important tools to preserve our proud 
tradition of ranching, fishing, hunting, 
and other outdoor recreational activities. 
She has been a tireless advocate 
and an invaluable ally on this effort. 

Alicia’s advocacy on behalf of Nevada’s 
vast natural resources and wildlife 
is unmatched, and I am thankful 
for all of the work that she has done 
for our great State. Today, I ask my 
colleagues to join me in congratulating 
Nevada Land Trust Co-Executive Director 
Alicia Reban on receiving this 
award. I look forward to continuing to 
work with her on conservation issues 
important to our State.S 


S7098 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

CONGRATULATING STEVE 
TETREAULT 

S Mr. HELLER. Mr. President, today, I 
wish to congratulate Steve Tetreault 
on his incredible career, bringing Nevada 
in-depth political news coverage 
from our Nation’s Capital. It gives me 
great pleasure to recognize Steve for 
his unwavering dedication to the people 
of Nevada and for showcasing journalistic 
integrity and excellence 
throughout his tenure. Though he will 
be greatly missed by Nevada journalism 
and the Las Vegas Review-Journal, 
his future with the United States 
Department of Energy will be of great 
service to our country. 

Throughout my time serving Nevada 
in the United States Congress, Steve 
has been there to convey accurate and 
truthful news stories to the people of 
Nevada. From covering my very first 
experiences in the United States House 
of Representatives to writing about the 
most recent events in the United 
States Senate, Steve was there to capture 
both sides of the argument, bringing 
fair coverage from the entire Nevada 
delegation. Our relationship operated 
with a great amount of respect 
and understanding, and I am grateful 
for his professionalism. However, his 
jealousy of my impeccable beard-growing 
skills prompted him to also grow 
one of his own. 

Steve’s insatiable appetite to cover 
important news stories and bring Nevadans 
pertinent political information 
made him an incredible journalist. He 
was always one step ahead, ready to 
share breaking political news, and had 
a genuine interest in painting the most 
accurate story for his readers. He will 
always be remembered for his top tier 
work at the Las Vegas Review-Journal. 

The insight and knowledge he gained 
throughout his career could never be 
replicated. He truly left his footprint 
in Nevada journalism, specifically at 
the Las Vegas Review-Journal, where 
he served as the Washington bureau 
chief. His writing has given the Silver 
State a detailed archive of Nevada’s 
delegation throughout his years in 
Washington, a truly unique piece of our 
State’s history. 

Steve has demonstrated absolute 
dedication to excellent reporting, 
bringing pertinent political news stories 
outside of the walls of the United 
States Capitol to audiences across Nevada. 
I am both humbled and honored 
by his hard work and am proud to call 
him a friend. Today, I ask all of my 
colleagues to join me in congratulating 
Steve Tetreault on his long and meaningful 
career at the Las Vegas Review-
Journal. I give my deepest appreciation 
for all that he has done and offer him 
my best wishes for many successful and 
fulfilling years to come with the 
United States Department of Energy.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO CAPTAIN LAWSON 

ALMAND 
S Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I wish to 
honor CAPT Lawson Almand, JAGC, 

USN, Retired, a son of North Carolina 
who is retiring after 39 years of Active 
Duty and civilian service to our Nation 
with the U.S. Navy. 

CAPT Almand is a native of Cary, 
NC. He received his B.A. in linguistics 
from the University of California, San 
Diego, a J.D. from the University of 
Puget Sound, and an LL.M. in international 
and comparative law from the 
National Law Center, The George 
Washington University. 

In 1976, CAPT Almand began his dedicated 
service to our Nation as a commissioned 
officer in the Navy Judge 
Advocate General’s Corps. During the 
next 32 years, Captain Almand served 
on Active Duty in a wide variety of 
roles, traveling throughout the United 
States and overseas. His assignments 
included Naval Air Station, Agana, 
Guam; Naval Support Office, La 
Maddalena, Sardinia, Italy; Naval 
Legal Service Office, Subic Bay, Republic 
of the Philippines; commander, 
Submarine Group 10, Kings Bay, GA; 
commander, Patrol Wings, U.S. Pacific 
Fleet; executive officer and commanding 
officer, Naval Legal Service 
Office Southwest, San Diego, CA; commanding 
officer, Naval Legal Service 
Office Northeast, Groton, CT; director, 
Defense Institute of International 
Legal Studies, Newport, RI; professor 
and associate dean, College of International 
and Security Studies, George 

C. Marshall European Center for Security 
Studies, Garmisch, Germany; force 
judge advocate, Naval Surface Forces, 
U.S. Pacific Fleet, San Diego; and Deputy 
Assistant Judge Advocate General, 
General Litigation Division. 
Following his retirement from Active 
Duty in July 2007, CAPT Almand continued 
his superlative service to the 
Navy as a civilian, serving for another 
7 years as Deputy Director of the Administrative 
Law Division in the Office 
of the Judge Advocate General in the 
Pentagon. 

For his outstanding service to our 
Nation, CAPT Almand earned numerous 
awards, including the Defense Superior 
Service Medal, Legion of Merit, 
Meritorious Service Medal, Navy Commendation 
Medal, Navy Achievement 
Medal, and the Superior Civilian Service 
Award. 

I commend CAPT Almand for his 
commitment to our country and the 
sacrifices he made on its behalf. On the 
occasion of his retirement from the 
Federal service, I thank him and his 
family for his honorable service to our 
Nation and wish him fair winds and following 
seas as he concludes a distinguished 
career.S 

f 

MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT 

Messages from the President of the 
United States were communicated to 
the Senate by Mr. Pate, one of his secretaries. 


PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGES 

REPORT RELATIVE TO THE DESIGNATION 
OF FUNDING FOR 
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS/
GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM, 
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT 
OF THE SENATE ON 
SEPTEMBER 30, 2015—PM 26 

The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before 
the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United 
States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee 
on the Budget: 

To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with section 114(c) of 
the Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2016, also titled the TSA Office of Inspection 
Accountability Act of 2015 
(the ‘‘Act’’), I hereby designate for 
Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism all funding (including 
the rescission of funds) and 
contributions from foreign governments 
so designated by the Congress in 
the Act pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) 
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, 
as outlined in the enclosed list of accounts. 


The details of this action are set 
forth in the enclosed memorandum 
from the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget. 

BARACK OBAMA. 
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 30, 2015. 

f 

NOTIFICATION OF THE PRESIDENT’S 
DESIGNATION OF AN 
EMERGENCY REQUIREMENT IN 
EMERGENCY FUNDING FOR URGENT 
WILDLAND FIRE SUPPRESSION 
ACTIVITIES, RECEIVED 
DURING ADJOURNMENT OF THE 
SENATE ON SEPTEMBER 30, 2015— 
PM 27 

The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before 
the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United 
States, together with an accompanying 
report; which was referred to the Committee 
on the Budget: 

To the Congress of the United States: 

In accordance with section 135 of the 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2016, 
also titled the TSA Office of Inspection 
Accountability Act of 2015 (the ‘‘Act’’), 
I hereby designate as an emergency requirement 
all funding so designated by 
the Congress in the Act pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced 
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, as amended, for the following 
account: ‘‘Department of Agriculture—
Forest Service—Wildland Fire 
Management.’’ 

The details of this action are set 
forth in the enclosed memorandum 
from the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget. 

BARACK OBAMA. 
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 30, 2015. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7099 

MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE 

At 2:25 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House has agreed to 
the amendment of the Senate to the 
bill (H.R. 2617) to amend the Fair Minimum 
Wage Act of 2007 to postpone a 
scheduled increase in the minimum 
wage applicable to American Samoa, 
and that the House has agreed to the 
amendment of the Senate to the title 
of the bill. 

The message also announced that the 
House has agreed to the following concurrent 
resolution, in which it requests 
the concurrence of the Senate: 

H. Con. Res. 81. Concurrent resolution providing 
for corrections to the enrollment of 
the bill H.R. 1735. 
The message further announced that 
the House has agreed to the report of 
the committee of conference on the 
disagreeing votes of the two Houses on 
the amendment of the Senate to the 
bill (H.R. 1735) to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2016 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, 
for military construction, and 
for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military 
personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, and for other purposes. 

At 2:45 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks, 
announced that the House has agreed 
to the amendment of the Senate to the 
bill (H.R. 1020) to define STEM education 
to include computer science, 
and to support existing STEM education 
programs at the National 
Science Foundation. 

ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED 

At 3:52 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the Speaker pro tempore 
(Mr. UPTON) has signed the following 
enrolled bills: 

H.R. 1020. An act to define STEM education 
to include computer science, and to support 
existing STEM education programs at the 
National Science Foundation. 
H.R. 2617. An act to amend the Fair Minimum 
Wage Act of 2007 to postpone a scheduled 
increase in the minimum wage applicable 
to American Samoa. 
The enrolled bills were subsequently 
signed by the President pro tempore 
(Mr. HATCH). 

f 

ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED 

The Assistant Secretary of the Senate 
reported that on September 30, 
2015, she had presented to the President 
of the United States the following enrolled 
bills: 

S. 136. An act to amend chapter 21 of title 
5, United States Code, to provide that fathers 
of certain permanently disabled or deceased 
veterans shall be included with mothers 
of such veterans as preference eligibles 
for treatment in the civil service. 
S. 139. An act to permanently allow an exclusion 
under the Supplemental Security Income 
program and the Medicaid program for 
compensation provided to individuals who 
participate in clinical trials for rare diseases 
or conditions. 

S. 565. An act to reduce the operation and 
maintenance costs associated with the Federal 
fleet by encouraging the use of remanufactured 
parts, and for other purposes. 
S. 2082. An act to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to extend certain expiring provisions 
of law administered by the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes. 
f 

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
and were referred as indicated: 

EC–3018. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Benzovindiflupyr; Pesticide Tolerances’’ 
(FRL No. 9933–03) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on September 
22, 2015; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–3019. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Acibenzolar-S-methyl; Pesticide Tolerances’’ 
(FRL No. 9933–27) received in the 
Office of the President of the Senate on September 
22, 2015; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–3020. A communication from the Acting 
Congressional Review Coordinator, Animal 
and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department 
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Importation 
of Kiwi From Chile Into the United 
States’’ ((RIN0579–AD98) (Docket No. APHIS– 
2014–0002)) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on September 25, 2015; to 
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry. 

EC–3021. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Management and Budget, Executive 
Office of the President, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to a violation 
of the Antideficiency Act; to the Committee 
on Appropriations. 

EC–3022. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
a violation of the Antideficiency Act that involved 
fiscal years 2010 and 2011 Operation 
and Maintenance, Navy, funds, and was assigned 
Army case number 14–02; to the Committee 
on Appropriations. 

EC–3023. A communication from the Secretary 
of Defense, transmitting a report on 
the approved retirement of Lieutenant General 
Patricia D. Horoho, United States 
Army, and her advancement to the grade of 
lieutenant general on the retired list; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–3024. A communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a semiannual report 
entitled, ‘‘Acceptance of Contributions 
for Defense Programs, Projects, and Activities; 
Defense Cooperation Account’’; to the 
Committee on Armed Services. 

EC–3025. A communication from the Director 
of Defense Procurement and Acquisition 
Policy, Department of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement: Contract Debts-Conform to 
FAR Section Designations’’ ((RIN0750–AI70) 
(DFARS Case 2015–D029)) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on Sep


tember 29, 2015; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–3026. A communication from the Director 
of Defense Procurement and Acquisition 
Policy, Department of Defense, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement: Electronic Copies of Contractual 
Documents’’ ((RIN0750–AI29) 
(DFARS Case 2012–D056)) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on September 
29, 2015; to the Committee on Armed 
Services. 

EC–3027. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Export Administration, 
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Enhancing 
Support for the Cuban People’’ (RIN0694– 
AG67) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on September 28, 2015; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–3028. A communication from the Certifying 
Officer, Bureau of the Fiscal Service, 
Department of the Treasury, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Cuban Assets Control Regulations’’ (31 CFR 
Part 515) received during adjournment of the 
Senate in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 23, 2015; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–3029. A communication from the Chief 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, Department of Homeland Security, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community 
Eligibility’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket No. 
FEMA–2015–0001)) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on September 30, 
2015; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3030. A communication from the Chief 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, Department of Homeland Security, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community 
Eligibility’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket No. 
FEMA–2015–0001)) received during adjournment 
of the Senate in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on September 23, 2015; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–3031. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a six-month periodic report on 
the national emergency declared in Executive 
Order 12978 of October 21, 1995, with respect 
to significant narcotics traffickers centered 
in Colombia; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3032. A communication from the Regulatory 
Specialist of the Legislative and Regulatory 
Activities Division, Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of 
the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regulatory 
Capital Rules: Regulatory Capital, Final Revisions 
Applicable to Banking Organizations 
Subject to the Advanced Approaches Risk-
Based Capital Rule’’ (RIN1557–AD88) received 
in the Office of the President of the Senate 
on September 28, 2015; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–3033. A communication from the Secretary 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to the export to the 
People’s Republic of China of items not detrimental 
to the U.S. space launch industry; 
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 

EC–3034. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘National Priorities List’’ (FRL No. 
9934–75–OSWER) received in the Office of the 


S7100 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

President of the Senate on September 22, 
2015; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–3035. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Hazardous Waste Management System; 
Identification and Listing of Hazardous 
Waste; Direct Final Rule’’ (FRL No. 9934–78– 
Region 7) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on September 22, 2015; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–3036. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of State 
Plans for Designated Facilities and Pollutants; 
Missouri; Control of Mercury Emissions 
from Electric Generating Units’’ (FRL 
No. 9934–68–Region 7) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on September 22, 
2015; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–3037. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Implementation 
Plans; Mississippi; Miscellaneous 
Changes’’ (FRL No. 9934–73–Region 4) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 22, 2015; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–3038. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Implementation 
Plans; Florida; Combs Oil Company 
Variance’’ (FRL No. 9934–72–Region 4) 
received in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 22, 2015; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–3039. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Air Plan Approval; CO; Revised Format 
for Material Incorporated by Reference’’ 
(FRL No. 9931–73–Region 8) received in the 
Office of the President of the Senate on September 
22, 2015; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–3040. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Approval and Promulgation of State 
Plans for Designated Facilities and Pollutants; 
Missouri; Control of Mercury Emissions 
from Electric Generating Units’’ (FRL 
No. 9934–68–Region 7) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on September 22, 
2015; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–3041. A communication from the Director 
of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nuclear 
Material Safety and Safeguards, Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Interim Staff Guidance on Acceptable 
Acute Uranium Exposure Standards for 
Workers’’ (FCSE–ISG–014, Revision 0) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 22, 2015; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–3042. A communication from the Director 
of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nuclear 
Material Safety and Safeguards, Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Consolidated Guidance About Material Licenses: 
Applications for Sealed Source and 
Device Evaluation and Registration’’ 
(NUREG–1556, Volume 3, Revision 2) received 

in the Office of the President of the Senate 
on September 22, 2015; to the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works. 

EC–3043. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report 
of a rule entitled ‘‘Kentucky Regulatory 
Program’’ ((SATS No. KY–253–FOR) (Docket 
No. OSM–2009–0014)) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on September 30, 
2015; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

EC–3044. A communication from the Deputy 
Director, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation 
and Enforcement, Department of 
the Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Pennsylvania 
Regulatory Program’’ ((SATS No. PA–154– 
FOR) (Docket No. OSM–2010–0002)) received 
in the Office of the President of the Senate 
on September 30, 2015; to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–3045. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Legislation, Regulation 
and Energy Efficiency, Department of 
Energy, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Uniform Administrative 
Requirements, Cost Principles, and 
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards’’ 
(RIN1991–AB94) received in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on September 28, 
2015; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

EC–3046. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Legislation, Regulation 
and Energy Efficiency, Department of 
Energy, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Energy Conservation 
Program: Energy Conservation Standards 
for Single Package Vertical Air Conditioners 
and Single Package Vertical Heat 
Pumps’’ (RIN1991–AC85) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on September 
28, 2015; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–3047. A communication from the Division 
Chief, Bureau of Land Management, Department 
of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Minerals Management: Adjustment of Cost 
Recovery Fees’’ (RIN1004–AE44) received in 
the Office of the President of the Senate on 
September 30, 2015; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–3048. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Legislation, Regulation 
and Energy Efficiency, Department of 
Energy, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Medical, Physical 
Readiness, Training, and Access Authorization 
Standards for Protective Force Personnel’’ 
(RIN1992–AA40) received in the Office 
of the President of Senate on September 
22, 2015; to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources. 

EC–3049. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Energy Efficiency and Renewable 
Energy, Department of Energy, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
recommendations concerning energy performance 
requirements for fiscal years 2016 
through 2025; to the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources. 

EC–3050. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Dividend Equivalents 
from Sources Within the United 
States’’ ((RIN1545–BJ56) (TD 9734)) received 
in the Office of the President of the Senate 
on September 22, 2015; to the Committee on 
Finance. 

EC–3051. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 

report of a rule entitled ‘‘Reorganizations 
Under Section 368(a)(1)(F)’’ ((RIN1545–BF51) 
(TD 9739)) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on September 22, 2015; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–3052. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Update to Weighted 
Average Interest Rates, Yield Curves, and 
Segment Rates’’ (Notice 2015–61) received in 
the Office of the President of the Senate on 
September 22, 2015; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–3053. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Investments Made 
for Charitable Purposes’’ (Notice 2015–62) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 22, 2015; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–3054. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Special per diem 
Rates 2015–2016’’ (Notice 2015–63) received in 
the Office of the President of the Senate on 
September 22, 2015; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–3055. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Per Capita Distributions 
of Funds Held in Trust by the Secretary 
of the Interior’’ (Notice 2015–67) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 22, 2015; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–3056. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fringe Benefits 
Aircraft Valuation Formula’’ (Rev. Rul. 2015– 

20) received in the Office of the President of 
the Senate on September 22, 2015; to the 
Committee on Finance. 
EC–3057. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Applicable Federal 
Rates—October 2015’’ (Rev. Rul. 2015–21) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 22, 2015; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–3058. A communication from the Chief 
of the Publications and Regulations Branch, 
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the 
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Additional First 
Year Depreciation’’ (Rev. Proc. 2015–48) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on September 22, 2015; to the Committee 
on Finance. 

EC–3059. A communication from the Chairman 
of the U.S. International Trade Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
biennial report relative to the impact of the 
Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act; to 
the Committee on Finance. 

EC–3060. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislation, Department of 
Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Evaluations 
of Hospitals’ Ambulance Data on Medicare 
Cost Reports and Feasibility of Obtaining 
Cost Data from All Ambulance Providers 
and Suppliers’’; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–3061. A communication from the Chief 
of the Trade and Commercial Regulations 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7101 

Branch, Customs and Border Protection, Department 
of Homeland Security, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Disclosure of Information for Certain 
Intellectual Property Rights Enforced at the 
Border’’ (RIN1515–AD87) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on September 
16, 2015; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–3062. A communication from the Chief 
of the Trade and Commercial Regulations 
Branch, Customs and Border Protection, Department 
of Homeland Security, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Disclosure of Information for Certain 
Intellectual Property Rights Enforced at the 
Border’’ (RIN1515–AD87) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on September 
17, 2015; to the Committee on Finance. 


EC–3063. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to section 36(c) and 
36(d) of the Arms Export Control Act (DDTC 
15–051); to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–3064. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to section 36(c) and 
36(d) of the Arms Export Control Act (DDTC 
15–062); to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


EC–3065. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a report relative to section 36(c) of the 
Arms Export Control Act (DDTC 15–032); to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations. 

f 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES 

The following reports of committees 
were submitted: 

By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, 
with an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute: 

S. 750. A bill to achieve border security on 
certain Federal lands along the Southern 
border (Rept. No. 114–150). 
S. 991. A bill to establish the Commission 
on Evidence-Based Policymaking, and for 
other purposes (Rept. No. 114–151). 
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, 
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute: 


S. 481. A bill to amend the Controlled Substances 
Act and the Federal Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act with respect to drug scheduling 
recommendations by the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services, and with respect 
to registration of manufacturers and 
distributors seeking to conduct clinical testing, 
and for other purposes. 
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, 
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
and an amendment to the title: 

S. 799. A bill to combat the rise of prenatal 
opioid abuse and neonatal abstinence syndrome. 
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, 
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute: 


S. 1893. A bill to reauthorize and improve 
programs related to mental health and substance 
use disorders. 
f 

EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF 
COMMITTEE 
The following executive reports of 
nominations were submitted: 

By Mr. CORKER for the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 

*Lucy Tamlyn, of New York, a Career 
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class 
of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary 
and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Republic of 
Benin. 

Nominee: Lucy Tamlyn. 

Post: Benin. 

(The following is a list of all members of 
my immediate family and their spouses. I 
have asked each of these persons to inform 
me of the pertinent contributions made by 
them. To the best of my knowledge, the information 
contained in this report is complete 
and accurate.) 

Contributions, amount, date, and donee: 

1. Self: 0. 

2. Spouse: 0. 

3. Children and Spouses: Filipa Tamlyn 
Serpa (single): 0. Benjamin Tamlyn Serpa 
(single): 0. 
4. Parents: Ann D. Tamlyn (widow), 0; 
Thomas T. Tamlyn (deceased), 0. 
5. Grandparents (none living). 
6. Brothers and Spouses: Thomas T. 
Tamlyn, 0; Spouse: Maria Sramek, 0; Benjamin 
W. Tamlyn (single), $300, 2013, DSCC; 
$300, 2013, DCCC; $300, 2014, DCCC; $200, 2014, 
DSCC. Democratic Senatorial Campaign 
Committee (DSCC), Democratic Congressional 
Campaign Committee (DCCC). 
7. Sisters: none. 
*Jeffrey J. Hawkins, Jr., of California, a 
Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, 
Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary 
and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Central African 
Republic. 

Nominee: Jeffrey Jones Hawkins, Jr. 

Post: Bangui. 

(The following is a list of all members of 
my immediate family and their spouses. I 
have asked each of these persons to inform 
me of the pertinent contributions made by 
them. To the best of my knowledge, the information 
contained in this report is complete 
and accurate.) 

Contributions, amount, date, and donee: 

1. Self: None. 
2. Spouse: Annie Chansavang-Hawkins: 
None. 
3. Children: Maxime Hawkins: None. 
Alexandre Hawkins: None. 
4. Parents: Jeffrey Hawkins, Sr.: None. 
Susan Wester: None. 
5. Grandparents: Issac Hawkins:—Deceased; 
Annie-Claire Hawkins—Deceased; 
Jack Hensley—Deceased; Jean Hensley—Deceased. 
6. Brothers and Spouses: None. 
7. Sisters and Spouses: None. 
* David R. Gilmour, of Texas, a Career 
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class 
of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary 
and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Togolese 
Republic. 
Nominee: David R. Gilmour. 

Post: Togo. 

(The following is a list of all members of 
my immediate family and their spouses. I 
have asked each of these persons to inform 
me of the pertinent contributions made by 
them. To the best of my knowledge, the information 
contained in this report is complete 
and accurate.) 

Contributions, amount, date, and donee: 
1. Self: 0. 
2. Spouse: 0. 

3. Children and Spouses: Miles D. Gilmour, 
none; Tristan J. Gilmour, none; Schyler B. 
Gilmour, none. 
4. Parents: John T. Gilmour, none; Shirley 
A. Gilmour—deceased. 
5. Grandparents: John T. Gilmour—deceased; 
Molly Gilmour—deceased. 
6. Brothers and Spouses: John and Deanna 
Gilmour, none; Gregory and Kathy Gilmour, 
none; Aaron Gilmour, none. 
7. Sisters and Spouses: Kathryn Gilmour, 
none; Lydia Gilmour, none; Jayne Gilmour, 
none. 
*Edwin Richard Nolan, Jr., of Massachusetts, 
a Career Member of the Senior Foreign 
Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be 
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary 
of the United States of America 
to the Republic of Suriname. 

Nominee: Edwin Richard Nolan, Jr. 

Post: Suriname. 

(The following is a list of all members of 
my immediate family and their spouses. I 
have asked each of these persons to inform 
me of the pertinent contributions made by 
them. To the best of my knowledge, the information 
contained in this report is complete 
and accurate.) 

Contributions, amount, date, and donee: 

1. Self: None. 
2. Spouse: None. 
3. Children and Spouses: Ryan P. Nolan: 
none; Katherine A. Nolan: none. 
4. Parents: Edwin R. Nolan: deceased; 
Agnes H. Nolan: deceased. 
5. Grandparents: John. J. Nolan: deceased; 
Mary C. Nolan: deceased. 
6. Brothers and Spouses: none. 
7. Sisters and Spouses: Maryann K. Steele: 
none; William Steele: none. 
*John L. Estrada, of Florida, to be Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of 
the United States of America to the Republic 
of Trinidad and Tobago. 

Nominee: John Learie Estrada. 

Post: Trinidad & Tobago. 

(The following is a list of all members of 
my immediate family and their spouses. I 
have asked each of these persons to inform 
me of the pertinent contributions made by 
them. To the best of my knowledge, the information 
contained in this report is complete 
and accurate.) 

Contributions, amount, date, and donee: 

1. Self: $250.00, 05/12/2012, John Estrada; 
$250.00, 10/16/2012, John Estrada; $400.00 01/29/ 
2013, John Estrada. Self and Spouse Joint: 
$250.00, 04/03/2014, John Estrada, Elizabeth 
Cote; $100.00, 10/10/2014, John Estrada, Elizabeth 
Cote; $50.00, 09/18/2014, John Estrada, 
Elizabeth Cote; $100, 09/08/2014, John Estrada, 
Elizabeth Cote; $200.00, 07/28/2014, John 
Estrada, Elizabeth Cote. 
2. Spouse: None. 
3. Children and Spouses: None. 
4. Parents: None. 
5. Grandparents: None. 
6. Brothers and Spouses: None. 
7. Sisters and Spouses: None. 
*Carolyn Patricia Alsup, of Florida, a Career 
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, 
Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary 
and Plenipotentiary of the 
United States of America to the Republic of 
The Gambia. 

Nominee: Carolyn Patricia Alsup. 

POST: The Gambia. 

(The following is a list of all members of 
my immediate family and their spouses. I 
have asked each of these persons to inform 
me of the pertinent contributions made by 
them. To the best of my knowledge, the information 
contained in this report is complete 
and accurate.) 

Contributions, amount, date, and donee: 

1. Self: $50.00, 3/31/15, DSCC; $50.00, 2/25/15, 
DNC; $50.00, 4/2/14, DNC; $64.00, 1/29/14, DNC; 
$75.00, 10/28/12, Obama for America; $100.00, 10/ 
1/12, Obama for America; $22.00, 12/30/11, 
Obama for America. 


S7102 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

2. Spouse: N/A. 
3. Children and Spouses: N/A. 
4. Parents: Fred W. Alsup, M.D. (father) 
(deceased 2002), none; Edith Laurence Alsup 
(mother) (deceased 1980), none. 
5. Grandparents: Mitchinson Laurence (deceased), 
none; Maude Laurence (deceased), 
none; Eules Alsup, Sr. (deceased), none; Nora 
Tubbs Alsup (deceased), none. 
6. Brothers and Spouses: Fred W. Alsup, Jr. 
(not married), none; Alan R. Alsup (deceased 
2001), none. 
7. Sisters and Spouses: Peggy Ann Alsup 
(not married), none. 
*Daniel H. Rubinstein, of Virginia, a Career 
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, 
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador 
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of 
the United States of America to the Republic 
of Tunisia. 

Nominee: Daniel Howard Rubinstein. 

Post: Ambassador to the Republic of Tunisia. 


(The following is a list of all members of 
my immediate family and their spouses. I 
have asked each of these persons to inform 
me of the pertinent contributions made by 
them. To the best of my knowledge, the information 
contained in this report is complete 
and accurate.) 

Contributions, Amount, Date, and Donee: 

1. Self: none. 
2. Spouse: Julie D. Adams: none. 
3. Children: Jonah G. Rubinstein: none; 
Simon L. Rubinstein: none. 
4. Parents: Morris L. Rubinstein (deceased): 
none; Mildred Rubinstein: none. 
5. Grandparents: David Rubinstein—(deceased); 
Fay Rubinstein—(deceased); Philip 
Hochberg—(deceased); Ruth Hochberg—(deceased). 
6. Brothers: Aaron B. Rubinstein (spouse 
Sharon Rubinstein), none; David E. Rubinstein 
(unmarried), none. 
7. Sisters: Naomi B. Weiss (spouse Stephen 
Weiss), none; Judith D. Massarano (spouse 
Glenn Masserano), none. 
Ann Calvaresi Barr, of Maryland, to be Inspector 
General, United States Agency for 
International Development. 

*David Malcolm Robinson, of Connecticut, 
a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, 
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Coordinator 
for Reconstruction and Stabilization. 


*David Malcolm Robinson, of Connecticut, 
a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, 
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant 
Secretary of State (Conflict and Stabilization 
Operations). 

*Scott Allen, of Maryland, to be United 
States Director of the European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development. 

*Susan Coppedge Amato, of Georgia, to be 
Director of the Office to Monitor and Combat 
Trafficking, with the rank of Ambassador at 
Large. 

*Barbara Lee, of California, to be a Representative 
of the United States of America 
to the Seventieth Session of the General Assembly 
of the United Nations. 

*Christopher H. Smith, of New Jersey, to 
be a Representative of the United States of 
America to the Seventieth Session of the 
General Assembly of the United Nations. 

Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, for the 
Committee on Foreign Relations I report 
favorably the following nomination 
lists which were printed in the 
RECORDs on the dates indicated, and 
ask unanimous consent, to save the expense 
of reprinting on the Executive 
Calendar that these nominations lie at 
the Secretary’s desk for the information 
of Senators. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Foreign Service nominations beginning 
with Jennifer Ann Amos and ending with 
Holly Rothe Wielkoszewski, which nominations 
were received by the Senate and appeared 
in the Congressional Record on July 
8, 2015. 

Foreign Service nominations beginning 
with Kreshnik Alikaj and ending with Brett 
David Ziskie, I which nominations were received 
by the Senate and appeared in the 
Congressional Record on September 8, 2015. 

Foreign Service nominations beginning 
with Jason Douglas Kalbfleisch and ending 
with Stuart MacKenzie Hatcher, which 
nominations were received by the Senate and 
appeared in the Congressional Record on 
September 21, 2015. (minus 1 nominee: DereII 
Kennedo) 

* Nomination was reported with recommendation 
that it be confirmed subject 
to the nominee’s commitment to 
respond to requests to appear and testify 
before any duly constituted committee 
of the Senate. 
(Nominations without an asterisk 
were reported with the recommendation 
that they be confirmed.) 

f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr. 
SULLIVAN, and Mr. SCHATZ): 

S. 2114. A bill to correct inconsistencies in 
the definitions relating to Native Americans 
in the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act; to the Committee on Finance. 
By Mr. FLAKE: 

S. 2115. A bill to continue job creation and 
the promotion of investment through improvements 
to targeted employment areas; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr. 
VITTER): 

S. 2116. A bill to improve certain programs 
of the Small Business Administration to better 
assist small business customers in accessing 
broadband technology, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Small Business 
and Entrepreneurship. 
By Mr. CORNYN: 

S. 2117. A bill to prevent certain discriminatory 
taxation of natural gas pipeline property; 
to the Committee on Finance. 
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and 
Mr. HEINRICH): 

S. 2118. A bill to amend title XIX of the Social 
Security Act to extend the application 
of the Medicare payment rate floor to primary 
care services furnished under Medicaid 
and to apply the rate floor to additional providers 
of primary care services; to the Committee 
on Finance . 
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. BENNET, 
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. WYDEN, 
Mr. COONS, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. WARNER, 
Mr. BOOKER, and Mr. SCHATZ): 

S. 2119. A bill to provide for greater congressional 
oversight of Iran’s nuclear program, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations. 
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr. 
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. 
FRANKEN, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. SANDERS, 
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, 
Mr. BENNET, Ms. BALDWIN, and 
Mr. MARKEY): 

S. 2120. A bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to require the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to carry out a program to support 
veterans in contact with the criminal 
justice system by discouraging unnecessary 
criminalization of mental illness and other 
nonviolent crimes, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. 

By Mrs. SHAHEEN: 

S. 2121. A bill to facilitate and enhance the 
declassification of information, including in 
the Legislative Branch, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 
By Mr. PAUL: 

S. 2122. A bill to increase the worldwide 
level of employment-based immigrants and 
to reauthorize the EB–5 regional center program; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr. 
DURBIN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, 
Mr. LEE, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. 
GRAHAM, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. BOOKER, and 
Mr. SCOTT): 

S. 2123. A bill to reform sentencing laws 
and correctional institutions, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Ms. STABENOW: 

S. 2124. A bill to establish a Federal tax 
credit approximation matching program for 
State new jobs training tax credits, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on Finance. 
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN: 

S. 2125. A bill to make the Community Advantage 
Pilot Program of the Small Business 
Administration permanent, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on Small Business 
and Entrepreneurship. 
By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr. 
VITTER, and Mrs. SHAHEEN): 

S. 2126. A bill to reauthorize the women’s 
business center program of the Small Business 
Administration, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. 
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself and Ms. 
AYOTTE): 

S. 2127. A bill to provide appropriate protections 
to probationary Federal employees, 
to provide the Special Counsel with adequate 
access to information, to provide greater 
awareness of Federal whistleblower protections, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 
f 

SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND 
SENATE RESOLUTIONS 

The following concurrent resolutions 
and Senate resolutions were read, and 
referred (or acted upon), as indicated: 

By Mr. UDALL: 

S. Res. 273. A resolution expressing the 
sense of the Senate regarding the need for 
reconciliation in Indonesia and disclosure by 
the United States Government of events surrounding 
the mass killings during 1965 and 
1966; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr. 
JOHNSON): 

S. Res. 274. A resolution commemorating 
the 25th anniversary of the peaceful and 
democratic reunification of Germany; to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations. 
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Ms. 
MIKULSKI): 

S. Res. 275. A resolution calling on Congress, 
schools, and State and local educational 
agencies to recognize the significant 
educational implications of dyslexia 
that must be addressed and designating October 
2015 as ‘‘National Dyslexia Awareness 
Month’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms. 
STABENOW, Mr. ENZI, Mr. DONNELLY, 
Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. COCHRAN, and 
Mrs. FEINSTEIN): 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7103 

S. Res. 276. A resolution designating the 
week beginning October 18, 2015, as ‘‘National 
Character Counts Week’’; considered 
and agreed to. 
f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 
S. 298 
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. BOXER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 298, a bill to amend titles XIX and 
XXI of the Social Security Act to provide 
States with the option of providing 
services to children with medically 
complex conditions under the 
Medicaid program and Children’s 
Health Insurance Program through a 
care coordination program focused on 
improving health outcomes for children 
with medically complex conditions 
and lowering costs, and for other 
purposes. 
S. 697 
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the 
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
RISCH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
697, a bill to amend the Toxic Substances 
Control Act to reauthorize and 
modernize that Act, and for other purposes. 
S. 1014 
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the 
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr. 
KIRK) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1014, a bill to amend the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the 
safety of cosmetics. 
S. 1099 
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the 
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
NELSON) and the Senator from Virginia 
(Mr. KAINE) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1099, a bill to amend the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act to 
provide States with flexibility in determining 
the size of employers in the 
small group market. 
S. 1178 
At the request of Mr. FLAKE, the 
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
RISCH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1178, a bill to prohibit implementation 
of a proposed rule relating to the definition 
of the term ‘‘waters of the 
United States’’ under the Clean Water 
Act, or any substantially similar rule, 
until a Supplemental Scientific Review 
Panel and Ephemeral and Intermittent 
Streams Advisory Committee produce 
certain reports, and for other purposes. 
S. 1214 
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the 
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. 
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1214, a bill to prevent human health 
threats posed by the consumption of 
equines raised in the United States. 
S. 1455 
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the 
name of the Senator from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. CASEY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1455, a bill to provide access 
to medication-assisted therapy, 
and for other purposes. 
S. 1817 
At the request of Ms. HEITKAMP, the 
names of the Senator from Virginia 

(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from 
New Hampshire (Ms. AYOTTE) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1817, a bill to 
improve the effectiveness of major 
rules in accomplishing their regulatory 
objectives by promoting retrospective 
review, and for other purposes. 

S. 1831 

At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the 
names of the Senator from Vermont 
(Mr. SANDERS) and the Senator from 
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were 
added as cosponsors of S. 1831, a bill to 
revise section 48 of title 18, United 
States Code, and for other purposes. 

S. 1874 

At the request of Mr. HATCH, the 
names of the Senator from Arkansas 
(Mr. BOOZMAN), the Senator from Utah 
(Mr. LEE) and the Senator from Nevada 
(Mr. HELLER) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 1874, a bill to provide protections 
for workers with respect to their right 
to select or refrain from selecting representation 
by a labor organization. 

S. 1989 

At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the 
name of the Senator from Washington 
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1989, a bill to improve access 
to primary care services. 

S. 2032 

At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the 
name of the Senator from California 
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2032, a bill to adopt the 
bison as the national mammal of the 
United States. 

S. 2045 

At the request of Mr. HELLER, the 
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr. 
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of 

S. 2045, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise 
tax on high cost employer-sponsored 
health coverage. 
S. 2066 

At the request of Mr. SASSE, the 
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr. 
ROBERTS) and the Senator from Alabama 
(Mr. SESSIONS) were added as cosponsors 
of S. 2066, a bill to amend title 
18, United States Code, to prohibit a 
health care practitioner from failing to 
exercise the proper degree of care in 
the case of a child who survives an 
abortion or attempted abortion. 

S. 2067 

At the request of Mr. WICKER, the 
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. 
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2067, a bill to establish EUREKA 
Prize Competitions to accelerate discovery 
and development of disease-
modifying, preventive, or curative 
treatments for Alzheimer’s disease and 
related dementia, to encourage efforts 
to enhance detection and diagnosis of 
such diseases, or to enhance the quality 
and efficiency of care of individuals 
with such diseases. 

S. 2089 

At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the 
name of the Senator from Missouri 
(Mrs. MCCASKILL) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2089, a bill to provide for 

investment in clean energy, to empower 
and protect consumers, to modernize 
energy infrastructure, to cut 
pollution and waste, to invest in research 
and development, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 2108 

At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the 
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
NELSON) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2108, a bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to provide for an 
extension of certain long-term care 
hospital payment rules and the moratorium 
on the establishment of certain 
hospitals and facilities. 

f 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mr. CORNYN: 

S. 2117. A bill to prevent certain discriminatory 
taxation of natural gas 
pipeline property; to the Committee on 
Finance. 
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the text of the 
bill be printed in the RECORD. 

There being no objection, the text of 
the bill was ordered to be printed in 
the RECORD, as follows: 

S. 2117 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. LIMITATION ON DISCRIMINATORY 

TAXATION OF NATURAL GAS PIPE


LINE PROPERTY. 

(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this Act: 
(1) ASSESSMENT.—The term ‘‘assessment’’ 
means valuation for a property tax that is 
levied by a taxing authority. 
(2) ASSESSMENT JURISDICTION.—The term 
‘‘assessment jurisdiction’’ means a geographical 
area used in determining the assessed 
value of property for ad valorem taxation. 
(3) COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY.—
The term ‘‘commercial and industrial 
property’’ means property (excluding natural 
gas pipeline property, public utility property, 
and land used primarily for agricultural 
purposes or timber growth) devoted to 
commercial or industrial use and subject to 
a property tax levy. 
(4) NATURAL GAS PIPELINE PROPERTY.—The 
term ‘‘natural gas pipeline property’’ means 
all property (whether real, personal, and intangible) 
used by a natural gas pipeline providing 
transportation or storage of natural 
gas subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal 
Regulatory Commission. 
(5) PUBLIC UTILITY PROPERTY.—The term 
‘‘public utility property’’ means property 
(excluding natural gas pipeline property) 
that is devoted to public service and is 
owned or used by any entity that performs a 
public service and is regulated by any governmental 
agency. 
(b) DISCRIMINATORY ACTS.—A State, subdivision 
of a State, authority acting for a 
State or subdivision of a State, or any other 
taxing authority (including a taxing jurisdiction 
and a taxing district) may not do any of 
the following: 
(1) ASSESSMENTS.—Assess natural gas pipeline 
property at value that has a higher ratio 
to the true market value of the natural gas 
pipeline property than the ratio that the assessed 
value of commercial and industrial 
property in the same assessment jurisdiction 
has to the true market value of such commercial 
and industrial property. 

S7104 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

(2) ASSESSMENT TAXES.—Levy or collect a 
tax on an assessment that may not be made 
under paragraph (1). 
(3) AD VALOREM TAXES.—Levy or collect an 
ad valorem property tax on natural gas pipeline 
property at a tax rate that exceeds the 
tax rate applicable to commercial and industrial 
property in the same assessment jurisdiction. 
(4) OTHER TAXES.—Impose any other tax 
that discriminates against a natural gas 
pipeline providing transportation or storage 
of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of 
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 
SEC. 2. JURISDICTION OF COURTS; RELIEF. 

(a) GRANT OF JURISDICTION.—Notwithstanding 
section 1341 of title 28, United 
States Code, and without regard to the 
amount in controversy or citizenship of the 
parties, the district courts of the United 
States shall have jurisdiction, concurrent 
with other jurisdiction of the courts of the 
United States, of States, and of all other taxing 
authorities and taxing jurisdictions, to 
prevent a violation of section 1. 
(b) RELIEF IN GENERAL.—Except as provided 
in this subsection, relief may be granted 
under this Act only if the ratio of assessed 
value to true market value of natural gas 
pipeline property exceeds by at least 5 percent 
the ratio of assessed value to true market 
value of commercial and industrial property 
in the same assessment jurisdiction. If 
the ratio of the assessed value of commercial 
and industrial property in the assessment jurisdiction 
to the true market value of commercial 
and industrial property cannot be 
determined to the satisfaction of the court 
through the random-sampling method known 
as a sales assessment ratio study (to be carried 
out under statistical principles applicable 
to such a study), each of the following 
shall be a violation of section 1 for which relief 
under this Act may be granted: 
(1) An assessment of the natural gas pipeline 
property at a value that has a higher 
ratio of assessed value to the true market 
value of the natural gas pipeline property 
than the ratio of the assessed value of all 
other property (excluding public utility 
property) subject to a property tax levy in 
the assessment jurisdiction has to the true 
market value of all other property (excluding 
public utility property). 
(2) The collection of an ad valorem property 
tax on the natural gas pipeline property 
at a tax rate that exceeds the tax rate applicable 
to all other taxable property (excluding 
public utility property) in the taxing jurisdiction. 
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, 
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. 
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. LEE, Mr. 
SCHUMER, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. 
LEAHY, Mr. BOOKER, and Mr. 
SCOTT): 

S. 2123. A bill to reform sentencing 
laws and correctional institutions, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee 
on the Judiciary. 
SENTENCING REFORM AND CORRECTIONS ACT 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, 
today I am pleased to introduce, along 
with a broad bipartisan group of colleagues, 
a truly landmark piece of legislation. 


It is the result of months of hard 
work and thoughtful deliberations. It 
is the largest criminal justice reform 
bill in a generation. 

This bill represents a consensus 
among my colleagues and me. 
There are elements of the criminal 
justice system that we agree can and 

should be improved. We all agree that 
statutory mandatory minimum sentences 
can serve an important role in 
protecting public safety and bringing 
justice to crime victims, and this bill 
will preserve the primary mandatory 
minimums to keep some certainty and 
uniformity in Federal sentences and to 
encourage criminals to cooperate with 
law enforcement. We even add two new 
mandatory minimums for crimes involving 
interstate domestic violence 
and supplying weapons or other defense 
materials to prohibited countries or 
terrorists, but our current system has 
produced some specific instances of severe 
and excessive sentences. 

So we all agree that we need to lower 
some of the harshest enhanced mandatory 
minimums, and we all agree that 
we can do a better job of targeting 
those enhanced mandatory sentences 
to the most serious violent and repeat 
offenders. 

This bill does just that. It even expands 
some of those enhanced mandatory 
minimums to criminals with prior 
violent felonies and State crimes involving 
the unlawful use of firearms. 
That will be a big help in cities across 
the country who face rising homicide 
rates from violent offenders who have 
been released from prison. 

We also all agree that our current 
system could benefit from giving 
judges a bit more discretion in sentencing. 
That is why we are expanding 
the current safety valve. 

We also create a second safety valve 
so that nonviolent offenders who have 
minor criminal histories or play low-
level roles in drug organizations are 
not improperly swept up by mandatory 
minimums. 

Finally, we all agree that we must 
improve our prisons and stop the revolving 
door. Those of us introducing 
the bill have agreed to give lower-risk 
inmates a chance to return to society 
earlier and with better prospects to become 
productive, law-abiding citizens. 

There are other parts of this bill that 
are also important, but I will not go 
into them at this time. As I said, this 
is the biggest criminal justice reform 
in a generation. 

Instead, I wish to end with the idea 
that this bill is about the Senate. Senators 
from both sides of the aisle and 
Senators with very different perspectives 
have come together to solve an 
important problem facing the United 
States. This is how the U.S. Senate can 
work, should work, and I am pleased to 
be a part of it and the chairman of the 
Judiciary Committee. 

Finally, I extend my sincere thanks 
to my colleagues who joined me in this 
effort: Senators DURBIN, CORNYN, 
WHITEHOUSE, LEE, GRAHAM, SCHUMER, 
BOOKER, and SCOTT, and my friend 
Ranking Member LEAHY. 

I close by again thanking the ranking 
member of the Judiciary Committee, 
Senator LEAHY, for the great 
help that he has been, not only as my 
friend, but also for his work on this 
piece of legislation. 

By Mrs. FEINSTEIN: 

S. 2125. A bill to make the Community 
Advantage Pilot Program of the 
Small Business Administration permanent, 
and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship. 
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, 
today I am introducing the Small Business 
Lending and Inequality Reduction 
Act of 2015. 

It is a simple bill with a straightforward 
goal: to increase economic activity 
in underserved communities to 
help create jobs and reduce economic 
inequality. We must help low and moderate 
income communities grow by 
partnering with organizations that can 
channel expertise and resources to 
these communities. The bill I am introducing 
today would assist community 
development institutions provide more 
funding to small businesses. 

This bill would increase their ability 
to lend in underserved communities 
and promote development and economic 
growth. The more lending they 
can offer to underserved communities, 
the more those communities can prosper. 


One example of this process can be 
found from CDC Small Business Finance, 
an organization that has created 
more than 165,000 jobs and funded 
more than 10,000 small businesses. In 
Anaheim, CA, for example, they provided 
$178,000 in financing to help 
Gretchen Shoemaker and her family 
successfully launch a restaurant based 
on Gretchen’s grandmother’s Southern-
style cooking in an historic area of 
Anaheim. 

Another example is Leatherby Family 
Creamery, an ice-cream parlor in 
Sacramento that opened in 1982 with 
the goal of creating a family-friendly 
community gathering place. They received 
a loan backed by the Small 
Business Administration that allowed 
them to modernize and expand their 
business. Leatherby’s now has three locations 
and has sustained itself for 
over 30 years despite bumps in the 
economy. It is truly dedicated to its 
communities as well, donating to over 
180 associations, schools, and organizations 
in 2015 alone. 

Overall, it should be clear: these 
loans provided real dividends back to 
the communities. 

With more access to financial services—
which my bill would provide— 
there will be more improvements to 
businesses, nonprofits, and our communities. 


The bill I am introducing today 
would do two main things: First, it allows 
community development institutions 
to increase their lending by providing 
them access to loans backed by 
the Small Business Administration. 

It would do this by authorizing and 
making permanent an existing pilot 
program run by the Small Business Administration 
and raising the maximum 
loan amount so that small businesses 
have access to additional funding. 
There are currently over 95 approved 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7105 

lenders in the pilot program, which has 
approved over $214 million in over 1,650 
loans. 

Small businesses eligible for loans 
under the program include small businesses 
located in areas of high poverty 
and unemployment; small businesses 
that have more than 50 percent of employees 
living in low- or moderate-income 
communities; and Small businesses 
owned by veterans. 

Second, this bill would expand the 
ability of Community Development Financial 
Institutions to access funding 
from the Federal Home Loan Bank 
System, which in turn allows them to 
provide more loans to low-income communities. 


These are two simple actions that 
can have a significant impact on small 
businesses and communities in California 
and across the country. 

I am proud to say that the Opportunity 
Finance Network, which is an 
association of community development 
financial institutions, supports this 
bill. 

I strongly urge my colleagues to support 
this legislation and am hopeful 
that this Congress will move it forward. 


f 

SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS 

SENATE RESOLUTION 273—EXPRESSING 
THE SENSE OF THE 
SENATE REGARDING THE NEED 
FOR RECONCILIATION IN INDONESIA 
AND DISCLOSURE BY THE 
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 
OF EVENTS SURROUNDING THE 
MASS KILLINGS DURING 1965 
AND 1966 

Mr. UDALL submitted the following 
resolution; which was referred to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations: 

S. RES. 273 
Whereas, on October 1, 1965, 6 Indonesian 
Army generals were killed by military personnel, 
including members of Indonesia’s 
Presidential Guard, and these killings were 
blamed on the Indonesian Communist Party 
and labeled an ‘‘attempted Communist coup 
d’e´tat’’; 
Whereas this alleged coup was used to justify 
the mass killing of alleged supporters of 
the Indonesian Communist Party, with estimates 
of the number of dead ranging from 
500,000 to 1,000,000 killed; 
Whereas the targeted individuals were predominantly 
unarmed civilians, and often included 
members of trade unions, intellectuals, 
teachers, ethnic Chinese, and those involved 
in the women’s movement; 
Whereas these killings and the imprisonment 
of up to 1,000,000 targeted individuals 
were done without due process of law; 
Whereas the targeted individuals were subject 
to extrajudicial execution, torture, rape, 
forced disappearance, forced labor, and 
forced eviction; 
Whereas the United States Central Intelligence 
Agency, in a 1968 research study, described 
the period as one of the worst mass 
murders of the twentieth century; 
Whereas the United States Government 
provided the Indonesian Army with financial, 
military, and intelligence support during 
the period of the mass killings, and did 

so aware that such killings were taking 
place as recorded in partially declassified 
documents in the Department of State history, 
‘‘Foreign Relations of the United 
States’’, pertaining to this period; 

Whereas, within months of military leader 
Suharto’s assumption of the Presidency following 
the mass killing, the United States 
Government began sending economic and 
military support to Suharto’s military regime, 
and played an indispensable role in its 
consolidation of power; 

Whereas aid to the Suharto government 
continued for more than 3 decades, despite 
on-going crimes against humanity committed 
by the Suharto government, including 
mass killing and other gross violations of 
human rights during the invasion and subsequent 
24-year occupation of East Timor; 

Whereas perpetrators of the 1965 and 1966 
mass killings have largely lived with impunity, 
and the survivors and descendants of 
the victims suffer continuing economic discrimination 
and had limited civil and political 
rights for decades, as noted in the 2012 
report by the Indonesian National Commission 
on Human Rights; 

Whereas the United States Government 
has not yet fully declassified all relevant 
documents concerning this time period, and 
full disclosure could help bring historical 
clarity to atrocities committed in Indonesia 
during 1965 and 1966; 

Whereas the United States Government 
has recently supported the declassification 
and release of documents in support of truth 
and reconciliation efforts following periods 
of violence in countries such as Chile and 
Brazil; 

Whereas open dialogue about alleged past 
crimes against humanity and past human 
rights violations is important for continued 
efforts to reconcile populations of Indonesia 
and to ensure a stable, sustainable peace 
that will benefit the region and beyond; 

Whereas, Indonesia has undergone a remarkable 
democratic transition over the 
last 2 decades, and is the world’s third largest 
democracy with the largest Muslim population 
in the world; 

Whereas through free and fair elections, 
the people of Indonesia have elected new 
leaders who now have the opportunity to establish 
a culture of accountability in partnership 
with the country’s vibrant civil society, 
press, academia, and human rights activists; 


Whereas the relationship between the 
United States and Indonesia is strong and involves 
many shared interests, as reflected in 
the 2010 United States-Indonesia Comprehensive 
Partnership, including democracy and 
civil society, education, security, climate 
and environment, energy, and trade and investment; 


Whereas the economic relationship between 
the United States and Indonesia is 
strong, with bilateral goods trade exceeding 
$27,000,000,000 and with major United States 
companies making significant long-term investments 
in Indonesia; and 

Whereas strong relations between the 
United States and Indonesia are mutually 
beneficial to both countries: Now, therefore, 
be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) condemns the mass murder in Indonesia 
during 1965 and 1966; 
(2) expresses great concern about the lack 
of accountability enjoyed by those who carried 
out crimes during this period; 
(3) urges political leaders in Indonesia— 
(A) to consider a truth, justice, and reconciliation 
commission to address alleged 
crimes against humanity and other human 
rights violations; and 
(B) to work to mend differences and animosity 
that remain after the mass killings 
during 1965 and 1966; and 
(4) calls on the Department of State, the 
Department of Defense, the Central Intelligence 
Agency, and others involved in developing 
and implementing policy towards Indonesia 
during this time period to establish 
an interagency working group— 
(A) to locate, identify, inventory, recommend 
for declassification, and make 
available to the public all classified records 
and documents concerning the mass killings 
of 1965 and 1966, including records and documents 
pertaining to covert operations in Indonesia 
from January 1, 1964, through March 
30, 1966; 
(B) to coordinate with Federal agencies 
and take such actions as necessary to expedite 
the release of such records to the public; 
and 
(C) to submit a report to Congress that describes 
all such records, the disposition of 
such records, and the activities of the Inter-
agency Group. 
f 

SENATE RESOLUTION 274—COMMEMORATING 
THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE PEACEFUL 
AND DEMOCRATIC REUNIFICATION 
OF GERMANY 

Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr. 
JOHNSON) submitted the following resolution; 
which was referred to the Committee 
on Foreign Relations: 

S. RES. 274 
Whereas more than 22,000,000 people of the 
United States served in the Cold War by supporting 
the efforts to bring military, economic, 
and diplomatic pressure to bear in 
the defense of Germany and the West, and ultimately 
helping more than 400,000,000 people 
gain freedom from the bondage of communism 
in the Soviet Bloc; 
Whereas the United States supported the 
promulgation of the Basic Law for the Federal 
Republic of Germany, under which Germany 
was eventually reunited; 
Whereas the United States created the Reconstruction 
Loan Corporation, which, under 
West German leadership, became the 
Kreditanstalt fu¨r Wiederaufbau that invested 
in the reconstruction of West Germany and 
lay the economic groundwork for the reunification 
of Germany; 
Whereas on November 4, 1989, more than 
1,000,000 people gathered in Alexanderplatz in 
East Berlin and 40 other cities and towns in 
East Germany to demand free elections and 
basic civil rights, such as freedom of opinion, 
movement, press, and assembly; 
Whereas on November 9, 1989, East German 
politbureau member Guenter Schabowski announced 
that the Government of East Germany 
would allow ‘‘every citizen of the German 
Democratic Republic to leave the GDR 
through any of the border crossings’’ and 
East German leader Egon Krenz promised 
‘‘free, general, democratic, and secret elections’’; 
Whereas thousands of people in East Berlin 
immediately flooded the border checkpoints 
at the Berlin Wall and demanded entry into 
West Berlin, causing the overwhelmed border 
guards of East Germany to open the checkpoints 
to allow people to cross into West 
Berlin; 
Whereas in the days following the fall of 
the Berlin Wall on November 9, 1989, hundreds 
of thousands of people from East Germany 
freely crossed the border into West 
Berlin and West Germany for the first time 
in more than 28 years; 
Whereas German Chancellor Helmut Kohl 
demonstrated leadership and vision when he 


S7106 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE October 1, 2015 

announced a 10-point program calling for the 
2 Germanys to expand mutual cooperation 
with the view toward eventual reunification 
on November 28, 1989; 

Whereas in March 1990, East Germany held 
free elections for the first time and those 
elections led to the defeat of the Party of 
Democratic Socialism and demonstrated the 
desire of the East German people to reunify 
Germany and rejoin the world community, 
which led to the May 1990 treaty on monetary, 
economic, and social issues and the 
signing of the Unification Treaty on August 
31, 1990; 

Whereas on October 2, 1990, President 
George Herbert Walker Bush told the German 
people: ‘‘The United States is proud to 
have built with you the foundations of freedom, 
proud to have been a steady partner in 
the quest for 1 Germany, whole and free. 
America is proud to count itself among the 
friends and allies of free Germany, now and 
in the future.’’; 

Whereas on October 3, 2015, the people of 
Germany will celebrate in Frankfurt and 
across Germany, the 25th anniversary of the 
reunification of Germany; and 

Whereas the reunification of Germany 
demonstrated the end of the division of Europe 
and the triumph of democracy over 
communism: Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) with the people of the former communist 
countries and Western Europe, celebrates 
25 years of a united Germany, free 
from the oppression of communism; 
(2) honors the courage and sacrifice of the 
people of Germany, the United States, and 
other countries who served in the Cold War 
to bring freedom to Central and Eastern Europe; 
(3) recognizes the importance of the alliance 
between the United States and Germany 
in— 
(A) common defense; 
(B) an enduring shared commitment to the 
free and unified Europe; and 
(C) an expanding and deepening economic 
prosperity under the rule of law throughout 
Europe; 
(4) expresses to the people of Germany an 
appreciation for the commitment of the people 
of Germany to the promotion of freedom 
through leadership in providing international 
assistance, support for peacekeeping 
and international security efforts, 
and acceptance of refugees, including efforts 
by the people of Germany in Afghanistan, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Lebanon, 
Sudan, and Ukraine; and 
(5) reaffirms the deep and historical friendship 
between the Government and people of 
the United States and the Government and 
people of Germany. 
f 

SENATE RESOLUTION 275—CALLING 
ON CONGRESS, SCHOOLS, 
AND STATE AND LOCAL EDUCATIONAL 
AGENCIES TO RECOGNIZE 
THE SIGNIFICANT EDUCATIONAL 
IMPLICATIONS OF 
DYSLEXIA THAT MUST BE ADDRESSED 
AND DESIGNATING OCTOBER 
2015 AS ‘‘NATIONAL DYSLEXIA 
AWARENESS MONTH’’ 

Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Ms. 
MIKULSKI) submitted the following resolution; 
which was referred to the 
Committee on the Judiciary: 

S. RES. 275 

Whereas dyslexia is— 

(1) defined as an unexpected difficulty in 
reading for an individual who has the intelligence 
to be a much better reader; and 
(2) due to a difficulty in getting to the individual 
sounds of spoken language, which 
affects the ability of an individual to speak, 
read, spell, and often, learn a language; 
Whereas dyslexia is the most common 
learning disability and affects 80 percent to 
90 percent of all individuals with a learning 
disability; 

Whereas an individual with dyslexia may 
have weakness in decoding or reading fluency 
and strength in higher level cognitive 
functions, such as reasoning, critical thinking, 
concept formation, or problem solving; 

Whereas great progress has been made in 
understanding dyslexia on a scientific level, 
including the epidemiology and cognitive 
and neurobiological bases of dyslexia; and 

Whereas early diagnosis of dyslexia is critical 
for ensuring that individuals with dyslexia 
receive focused, evidence-based intervention 
that leads to the promotion of self-
awareness and self-empowerment and the 
provision of necessary accommodations so as 
to ensure school and life success: Now, therefore, 
be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) calls on Congress, schools, and State 
and local educational agencies to recognize 
that dyslexia has significant educational implications 
that must be addressed; and 
(2) designates October 2015 as ‘‘National 
Dyslexia Awareness Month’’. 
f 

SENATE RESOLUTION 276—DESIGNATING 
THE WEEK BEGINNING 
OCTOBER 18, 2015, AS ‘‘NATIONAL 
CHARACTER COUNTS WEEK’’ 

Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms. 
STABENOW, Mr. ENZI, Mr. DONNELLY, 
Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. COCHRAN, and Mrs. 
FEINSTEIN) submitted the following resolution; 
which was considered and 
agreed to: 

S. RES. 276 
Whereas the well-being of the United 
States requires that the young people of the 
United States become an involved, caring 
citizenry of good character; 
Whereas the character education of children 
has become more urgent, as violence by 
and against youth increasingly threatens the 
physical and psychological well-being of the 
people of the United States; 
Whereas, more than ever, children need 
strong and constructive guidance from their 
families and their communities, including 
schools, youth organizations, religious institutions, 
and civic groups; 
Whereas the character of a nation is only 
as strong as the character of its individual 
citizens; 
Whereas the public good is advanced when 
young people are taught the importance of 
good character and the positive effects that 
good character can have in personal relationships, 
in school, and in the workplace; 
Whereas scholars and educators agree that 
people do not automatically develop good 
character and that, therefore, conscientious 
efforts must be made by institutions and individuals 
that influence youth to help young 
people develop the essential traits and characteristics 
that comprise good character; 
Whereas, although character development 
is, first and foremost, an obligation of families, 
the efforts of faith communities, 
schools, and youth, civic, and human service 
organizations also play an important role in 
fostering and promoting good character; 
Whereas Congress encourages students, 
teachers, parents, youth, and community 
leaders to recognize the importance of character 
education in preparing young people to 
play a role in determining the future of the 
United States; 

Whereas effective character education is 
based on core ethical values, which form the 
foundation of a democratic society; 

Whereas examples of character are trustworthiness, 
respect, responsibility, fairness, 
caring, citizenship, and honesty; 

Whereas elements of character transcend 
cultural, religious, and socioeconomic differences; 


Whereas the character and conduct of 
youth reflect the character and conduct of 
society, and, therefore, every adult has the 
responsibility to teach and model ethical 
values and every social institution has the 
responsibility to promote the development of 
good character; 

Whereas Congress encourages individuals 
and organizations, especially those that have 
an interest in the education and training of 
the young people of the United States, to 
adopt the elements of character as intrinsic 
to the well-being of individuals, communities, 
and society; 

Whereas many schools in the United States 
recognize the need, and have taken steps, to 
integrate the values of their communities 
into teaching activities; and 

Whereas the establishment of ‘‘National 
Character Counts Week’’, during which individuals, 
families, schools, youth organizations, 
religious institutions, civic groups, 
and other organizations focus on character 
education, is of great benefit to the United 
States: Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) designates the week beginning October 
18, 2015, as ‘‘National Character Counts 
Week’’; and 
(2) calls upon the people of the United 
States and interested groups— 
(A) to embrace the elements of character 
identified by local schools and communities, 
such as trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, 
fairness, caring, and citizenship; and 
(B) to observe the week with appropriate 
ceremonies, programs, and activities. 
f 

AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO 
MEET 

COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Armed Services be authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on October 1, 2015, at 9:30 a.m. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN 
AFFAIRS 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs be authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on October 
1, 2015, at 10 a.m., to conduct a 
hearing entitled ‘‘American Crude Oil 
Export Equality Act.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Finance be authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate 
on October 1, 2015, at 10 a.m., in room 
SD–215 of the Dirksen Senate Office 
Building, to conduct a hearing entitled 
‘‘Improper Payments in Federal Programs.’’ 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7107 

COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Foreign Relations be authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on October 1, 2015, at 10 a.m. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Foreign Relations be authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on October 1, 2015, at 10:30 a.m., 
to conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Reviewing 
the Civil Nuclear Agreement with 
South Korea.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Foreign Relations be authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on October 1, 2015, at 2 p.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Nominations.’’ 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, 
AND PENSIONS 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, 
and Pensions be authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on October 
1, 2015, at 10 a.m., in room SD–430 
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building 
to conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Achieving 
the Promise of Health Information 
Technology.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
be authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on October 
1, 2015, at 10 a.m., in room SR–428A 
of the Russell Senate Office Building to 
conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining 
the Significant Cost and Related Burdens 
for Small Businesses Resulting 
from the Gold King Mine Waste Water 
Spill near Silverton, CO.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Select 
Committee on Intelligence be authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on October 1, 2015, at 2:30 p.m. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON IMMIGRATION AND THE 
NATIONAL INTEREST 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on the Judiciary, Subcommittee 
on Immigration and the National 
Interest, be authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate, on October 
1, 2015, at 2 p.m., in room SD–226 
of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, 
to conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight 
of the Administration’s FY 2016 
Refugee Resettlement Program: Fiscal 
and Security Implications.’’ 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON PUBLIC LANDS, FORESTS, 
AND MINING 

Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources’ 
Subcommittee on Public 
Lands, Forests, and Mining be authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on October 1, 2015, at 2:30 p.m., 
in room SD–366 of the Dirksen Senate 
Office Building. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that floor privileges 
be granted this Congress for 
David Palmer and Zach Terwilliger, 
detailees from the Department of Justice. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT—
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that at 5 p.m. 
on Monday, October 5, the Senate proceed 
to executive session to consider 
the following nomination: Calendar No. 
138; that there be 30 minutes for debate 
on the nomination equally divided in 
the usual form; that upon the use or 
yielding back of time, the Senate vote 
without intervening action or debate 
on the nomination; that following disposition 
of the nomination, the motion 
to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table with no intervening 
action or debate; that no further motions 
be in order to the nomination; 
that any statements related to the 
nomination be printed in the RECORD; 
that the President be immediately notified 
of the Senate’s action and the 
Senate then resume legislative session. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

NATIONAL CHARACTER COUNTS 
WEEK 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of S. 
Res. 276, which was submitted earlier 
today. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 276) designating the 
week beginning October 18, 2015, as ‘‘National 
Character Counts Week.’’ 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the resolution 
be agreed to, the preamble be 
agreed to, and the motions to reconsider 
be laid upon the table with no intervening 
action or debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The resolution (S. Res. 276) was 
agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

(The resolution, with its preamble, is 
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Submitted 
Resolutions.’’) 

f 

ORDERS FOR MONDAY, OCTOBER 5, 
2015 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that when the 
Senate completes its business today, it 
adjourn until 4 p.m., Monday, October 
5; that following the prayer and pledge, 
the morning hour be deemed expired, 
the Journal of proceedings be approved 
to date, and the time for the two leaders 
be reserved for their use later in 
the day; that following leader remarks, 
the Senate be in a period of morning 
business until 5 p.m., with Senators 
permitted to speak therein for up to 10 
minutes each; finally, that following 
morning business, the Senate proceed 
to executive session as under the previous 
order. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY, 
OCTOBER 5, 2015, AT 4 P.M. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if 
there is no further business to come before 
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent 
that it stand adjourned under the 
previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 5:54 p.m., adjourned until Monday, 
October 5, 2015, at 4 p.m. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1401 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

DIRECTING THE CLERK OF THE 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
TO MAKE CORRECTIONS IN THE 
ENROLLMENT OF H.R. 719 

SPEECH OF 

HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS 

OF FLORIDA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, September 30, 2015 

Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
strong opposition to H. Con. Res. 79, which 
seeks to add language to the underlying Continuing 
Resolution before it is sent to the 
President to eliminate federal funding for 
Planned Parenthood and its affiliates for one 
year. 

H. Con. Res. 79 is nothing more than a political 
exercise in futility, and yet another attempt 
to appease extremists in the Republican 
Conference who are determined to limit women’s 
access to critical health care services. 
This concurrent resolution is substantively 
identical to both the language in H.R. 3134, 
which the House has already passed and the 
Senate has refused to consider, and the Continuing 
Resolution that was rejected by a bipartisan 
majority of 47 to 52 in the Senate last 
week. With just hours left to pass legislation to 
keep our government open, we should not be 
hindering access to women’s health care. 

Mr. Speaker, opposition to these political 
gimmicks is not limited to Democrats in Congress. 
Earlier this week the fight over 
defunding Planned Parenthood and similar 
scuffles facilitated by fringe elements of the 
Republican party lead to the resignation of the 
Speaker of the House, and has divided the 
Republican conference so fervently that we 
can again expect a very real threat of a government 
shutdown in December. 

The reality is, the Continuing Resolution we 
are currently considering does not provide one 
cent of federal funding for Planned Parenthood, 
as my Republican friend Representative 
TOM COLE, Chairman of the Appropriations 
Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human 
Services, Education and Related Agencies, 
astutely points out. Knowing this, I am both 
bewildered and outraged that we are using 
precious time considering another bill designed 
to restrict the constitutional reproductive 
rights of women to satisfy the extreme political 
agenda of a few in Congress. 

Planned Parenthood has long served as a 
critical health safety net for millions of men 
and women. Over 90 percent of the services 
it provides are preventative in nature, including 
cancer screenings, testing for sexually transmitted 
infections, and family planning services. 
Indeed, each year Planned Parenthood centers 
provide an average of 400,000 cervical 
cancer screenings, 500,000 breast cancer 
screenings, and nearly 4.5 million tests and 
treatments for sexually transmitted infections. 
Defunding this important organization and its 
affiliates would do an immeasurable disservice 
to millions of Americans. 

Like it or not, the Supreme Court’s ruling in 
Roe v. Wade conferred upon women the right 

to do with their own bodies what they determine 
best until the point of viability. This decision 
acknowledges the notion that the choice 
to have an abortion is excruciatingly difficult, 
and belongs exclusively with a woman, in consultation 
with her doctor and god. To subject 
this right to the ideological whims of politicians 
flies in the face of years of Supreme Court jurisprudence 
and is an unconscionable affront 
to women’s health. 

f 

TSA OFFICE OF INSPECTION 
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2015 

SPEECH OF 

HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Wednesday, September 30, 2015 

Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to stop the government from shutting 
down. 

What we are doing today is budgeting or 
appropriating but a desperate Hail Mary to 
save thousands of jobs and prevent another 
waste of $24 billion in lost economic productivity 
like we saw the last time House Republicans 
succeeded in shutting down the government. 


Today I will vote for H.R. 719 even though 
it goes against sound fiscal practice by including 
the budget gimmickry known as sequestration, 
a fiscal bludgeon that makes across the 
board cuts in funding for the valuable services 
depended upon by American children, seniors, 
workers, veterans, students, and small businesses. 


Mr. Speaker, H.R. 719, ‘‘Continuing Appropriations 
for Fiscal Year 2016,’’ which extends 
current Fiscal Year 2015 government funding 
for nearly all agencies through December 11, 
2015, at a rate equal to an annual level of 
$1.017 trillion, a level consistent with the combined 
top-line post-sequester discretionary 
spending caps for Fiscal Year 2016 set by the 
Budget Control Act. 

H.R. 719 also provides funding for Overseas 
Contingency Operations, which are exempt 
from the BCA caps, at a rate of $74.8 billion, 
an amount roughly equal to a continuation of 
the Fiscal Year 2015 level. 
Mr. Speaker, I am disappointed that we 
have again been placed in the position of having 
to fund the government through the device 
of a continuing resolution rather than through 
the normal appropriations process of considering 
and voting on the twelve separate 
spending bills reported by the Committee on 
Appropriations. 

Although the House considered and passed 
several of the annual spending bills, none of 
them received consideration in the Senate because 
of the refusal of the House leadership 
to reach agreement with the Senate on an appropriate 
framework for all appropriations bills 
that does not harm our economy or require 
draconian cuts to middle-class priorities. 

Without such an agreement, House Republican 
appropriation bills will result in: 

1. hundreds of thousands of low-income 
children losing access to Head Start programs, 
2. tens of thousands of children with disabilities 
losing federal funding for their special 
education teachers and aides, 
3. thousands of federal agents who will not 
be able to secure the border, enforce drug 
laws, combat violent crime or apprehend fugitives; 
and 
4. thousands of scientists without medical 
grants to conduct research to find new treatments 
and cures for diseases like breast cancer 
and Alzheimer’s. 
As a result of the failure to reach a budget 
agreement, we now find ourselves facing the 
Hobson’s choice of rejecting the Continuing 
Resolution now pending which likely will result 
in a cessation of government operations or approving 
the Continuing Resolution and continuing 
adherence to the draconian spending 
limits imposed by the Budget Control Act of 
2011. 

Faced with this dilemma, I reluctantly will 
vote for H.R. 719 because in the circumstances 
it would be irresponsible to do 
otherwise. 

H.R. 719 is not perfect—far from it—but it is 
a modest and positive step toward preventing 
Republicans from shutting down the government 
again and manufacturing crises that only 
harm our economy, destroy jobs, and weaken 
our middle class. 
The government shutdown of 2013, which 
was manufactured by the Republican majority 
lasted 16 days and cost taxpayers $24 billion. 

The cost to federal employees and the people 
they serve cannot be calculated. 

Mr. Speaker, as with any compromise there 
are some things in the agreement that I support 
and some things that I strongly oppose. 

For example, I support the provisions in the 
Continuing Resolution ensuring that funding 
for appropriated entitlements continue at a 
rate maintaining program levels under current 
law. 

I also support the provisions allowing the 
State Department, USAID, BBG, and related 
agencies to expend funds in the absence of 
an authorization, and authorizing continuation 
of certain intelligence activities. 

I support the provisions in H.R. 719 that 
provide $700 million in emergency funding for 
government efforts to fight wildfires in Western 
states and that give the VA budget flexibility to 
finish construction of a facility in Denver. 

Finally, I am very pleased that House Republicans 
have jettisoned any serious efforts 
to shut down the government over the obsession 
with defunding Planned Parenthood and 
opposition to women’s reproductive rights. 

On the other hand, I am very disappointed 
that the Continuing Resolution again misses 
the opportunity to reauthorize two critical programs: 
the Export-Import Bank and the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund. 

The Export-Import Bank provides critical financing 
assistance—at no cost to taxpayers— 
to small, medium, and large-sized U.S. businesses, 
helping them to create jobs at home 
and sell products overseas. 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E1402 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks October 1, 2015 

The Land and Water Conservation Fund is 
a bipartisan, popular, 50-year program that 
uses royalties from federal oil and gas leases 
for land acquisition and parks across the 
country. 

The LWCF program supports more than 6 
million U.S. jobs connected with outdoor recreation 
at no cost to taxpayers. 

Without action by Congress, LWCF will expire 
on September 30, authorization for the 
Ex-Im Bank expired June 30, 2015, and has 
been hurting U.S. exporters and workers daily 
ever since. 

I also strongly disapprove of the rescission 
of $1.7 billion from the Children’s Health Insurance 
Program (CHIP) and the across the 
board reduction in funding levels for most programs 
and activities from their FY 2015 levels 
by 0.21%. 

Nevertheless, the agreement allows Congress 
to keep the federal government open to 
serve the American people and gives the Congress 
and the Administration ten weeks to 
reach agreement on a fair and balanced budget 
that provides the funds for the investments 
in human capital and physical infrastructure 
needed to maintain American competitiveness 
in the global economy of the 21st century. 

And one of the most important things we 
can do is end the draconian sequestration that 
has been in effect since 2011. 

Mr. Speaker, to illustrate how strongly I feel 
about the need to end sequestration, let me 
chronicle the severity of the suffering and pain 
inflicted by sequestration on the most vulnerable 
residents of Texas and the constituents 
that I serve. 

Head Start and Early Head Start services 
were eliminated or severely impacted with approximately 
4,800 children being impacted 
throughout the state of Texas. 

Families in my district who rely on Federal 
Government programs like Head Start are 
hurting. 

The pain did not start with the 2013 shutdown, 
but with sequestration which hit Head 
Start programs for 3 to 4 year olds in the 
Houston area hard: $5,341 million cut; 109 
Employees cut; 699 Slots for children cut. 

Head Start and Early Head Start Programs 
were further stressed by the federal government 
shutdown. 

My support of Head Start and Early Head 
Start is based on what I have seen and heard 
about programs like the AVANCE-Houston 
Early Head Start program serving parents and 
children in the 18th Congressional District. 

The AVANCE-Houston Early Head Start is a 
program serving low income families in my 
Houston Texas District. 

I have visited with AVANCE-Houston administrators 
many times to get an update on how 
low-income families with infants and toddlers 
and pregnant women served by the program 
were doing. 

The AVANCE-Houston Early Head Start’s 
mission is simple: AVANCE-Houston works for 
healthy prenatal outcomes for pregnant 
women, enhances the development of very 
young children, and promotes healthy family 
functioning. 

AVANCE-Houston serves nearly 1,800 children 
city wide; each of these families and their 
children are suffering the effects of the sequestration. 


Sequestration has cost AVANCE-Houston 
over $842,518 Head Start and Early Head 
Start in lost funding and put on hold the head 
start on the future our children deserve. 

As I stated, Mr. Speaker, this Continuing 
Resolution is not perfect and it only funds the 
government until December 11, 2015, but it is 
better than the alternative we faced in 2013 
when House Republicans shut down the government 
for 16 days and cost our economy 
$24 billion in lost economic productivity. 

For that reason, I will vote for H.R. 719 and 
renew my call that all members of the House 
and Senate work together and with the President 
to reach agreement on an appropriate 
budget framework that ends sequestration but 
does not harm our economy or require draconian 
cuts to middle-class priorities. 

f 

MALNUTRITION AWARENESS WEEK 

HON. MARCIA L. FUDGE 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Ms. FUDGE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to bring attention 
to Malnutrition Awareness Week. I salute 
those who fight against this underestimated 
but very important disease. While we 
often talk about hunger, obesity, food insecurity 
and other topics that deal with what and 
how we eat, we do not talk nearly enough 
about the common thread that links these 
issues together: malnutrition. 

Though not commonly viewed as a medical 
concern in the U.S., malnutrition is a serious 
disease that largely affects certain demographic 
groups, such as older adults, hospitalized 
patients and minorities. For example, 
older African Americans have a significantly 
higher risk of malnutrition compared to their 
white counterparts. 

A recent study estimated the economic burden 
of community-based diseases associated 
with malnutrition to be $157 billion per year. 
Studies have further shown that chronic disease 
is often linked with malnutrition, and 1 in 
3 patients arrive at our hospitals malnourished. 
This translates into higher health care 
costs, increased readmission rates, and longer 
hospital stays. We need real, cost-effective solutions, 
particularly for those who need care 
the most. 

We also need more vigilance and action in 
the area of good nutrition. Malnutrition screening, 
assessment, and appropriate nutritional 
interventions for older adults could be vital to 
them leading healthier lives and saving on 
healthcare costs. We cannot afford to ignore 
such low-cost solutions. 

September 28 through October 2 has been 
designated as Malnutrition Awareness Week. 
Hopefully increased awareness about this 
problem will lead to healthier aging of citizens 
across all our communities. 

f 

BOB BRIGGS 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud Bob Briggs for 
receiving the Jefferson County 2015 Hall of 
Fame Award from the West Chamber. 

The Hall of Fame Award recognizes outstanding 
individuals who have had significant, 

long-lasting impacts through their leadership 
and contributions to Jefferson County’s economy, 
community and legacy. 

As a third-generation Coloradan, Bob 
earned a degree from Colorado State University 
in horticulture. In 1961, Bob founded 
Briggs Flower Shop and Garden Center. From 
there, Bob became engaged in various community 
and political activities in Jefferson 
County, such as serving as Adams County 
Commissioner. 

As Commissioner, he helped prevent the 
expansion of Stapleton Airport on to the Rocky 
Mountain Arsenal which ultimately led to the 
construction of Denver International Airport 
(DIA). Bob also served as President of Adams 
County Economic Development for three 
years. During his tenure, he helped in efforts 
to secure the South West Mall and build the 
Front Range Airport. Bob went on to be elected 
as a Council Member for Westminster in 
2007. 

Bob’s extracurricular work also had tremendous 
impacts including his work on the board 
of the Butterfly Pavilion where he helped 
spearhead the City Wide Trail system, a system 
that is responsible for 15 percent of Westminster’s 
open space today. Bob also served 
as a board member of the Regional Transportation 
District where he approved the project 
ideas that became FasTracks, TREX, and 
Union Station Light Rail station. 

Congratulations to Bob Briggs for this well-
deserved honor by the West Chamber. I am 
grateful for his contributions to Jefferson 
County. 

f 

IN COMMEMORATION OF THE 100TH 
ANNIVERSARY OF THE CUMBERLAND 
COUNTY ASSOCIATION 
OF TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS 

HON. LOU BARLETTA 

OF PENNSYLVANIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor 
to help commemorate the 100th anniversary of 
the establishment of the Cumberland County 
Association of Township Officials. Over the 
past century, the organization has consistently 
endeavored to advance the interests of Cumberland 
County’s 18 townships and has diligently 
served my constituents. 

First established in 1915, the organization 
continues to provide an arena for the discussion 
of issues of local and regional importance. 
Furthermore, the association serves 
over 400 township officials in Cumberland 
County by hosting informational conferences, 
offering training opportunities, and advocating 
for its members at the county, state, and federal 
levels. Most importantly, the organization 
helps a range of supervisors, managers, secretaries, 
treasurers, tax collectors, and auditors 
develop a better understanding of the 
rights and duties of township officials—an invaluable 
educational service. 

Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure to recognize 
the Cumberland County Association of Township 
Officials as it celebrates its 100th anniversary. 
I am incredibly grateful for this community 
organization that strives every day to ensure 
the future stability and prosperity of Cumberland 
County. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1403 

IN RECOGNITION OF DIANE 
CALLAHAN 

HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Ms. Diane Callahan, who is retiring after 
15 dedicated years of public service in Highland 
Village. The city has benefited immeasurably 
from her unfaltering precision, unfailing 
commitment, and unwavering devotion to the 
residents she serves. 

Ms. Callahan began serving the City of 
Highland Village in 2000 as an administrative 
secretary. She performed zealously in this role 
by compiling meticulous reports and utilizing 
her comprehensive knowledge of city policy to 
the benefit of constituents and businesses 
alike. In 2008, after several years of ardent 
work and study she earned her Texas Registered 
Municipal Clerk certification. In 2011, 
Ms. Callahan was appointed City Secretary of 
Highland Village. In large part due to her efforts, 
the City of Highland Village has operated 
efficiently and reliably, thereby solidifying the 
quality of life residents of the city have come 
to enjoy. 

Ms. Callahan had an extensive breadth of 
duties as Highland Village’s City Secretary. 
She was responsible for keeping all seven 
council members informed on city events and 
developments as well as maintaining city ordinances, 
coordinating municipal and special 
elections, and responding in a timely manner 
to public information requests. Ms. Callahan 
performed these duties with sterling customer 
service. 

In 2014, Ms. Callahan attained the title of 
Certified Municipal Clerk, an award distributed 
by the International Institute of Municipal 
Clerks, in recognition of her vast experience 
and attendance at an exhaustive number of 
educational programs. Additionally, Ms. Callahan 
was honored by the North Texas Municipal 
Clerks Association as the 2015 Municipal 
Clerk of the Year. This most recent achievement 
is a testimony to the professional reputation 
she has built with her commitment to excellence. 


As Ms. Callahan retires, she is highly esteemed 
by her colleagues and the community 
she has served for 15 years, and she will be 
greatly missed. It is my privilege to honor such 
an outstanding citizen and serve the City of 
Highland Village in the U.S. House of Representatives. 


f 

JAMES E. DALE 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud James E. 
Dale for receiving the Golden Mayor’s Award 
for Excellence. 

The Golden Mayor’s Award for Excellence 
recognizes organizations, businesses and individuals 
that significantly contribute to the 
wellbeing and improvement of the City of 
Golden. 

Jim has served on the Citizens’ Budget Advisory 
Committee and the Golden Planning 

Commission. He was a founding member of 
the Sustainability Taskforce, and he currently 
serves on the Citizens Sustainability Advisory 
Board and the Golden Visitors Center Board. 
Additionally, he supports the Golden History 
Museum, Landmarks Association, Foothills Art 
Center, Miners Alley Playhouse and Colorado 
Cowboy Gathering. 

I congratulate James E. Dale for being the 
recipient of this well-deserved honor by Mayor 
Marjorie Sloan, and I thank him for his continued 
commitment to the City of Golden. 

f 

HONORING TAIWAN’S 104TH 
NATIONAL DAY 

HON. SCOTT GARRETT 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. GARRETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize Taiwan’s 104th National Day on October 
10th, also known as Double Ten Day. 

Both the United States and Taiwan share 
the belief that remembering our countries’ heritage 
is critical to forging a path to a better tomorrow. 
Only a few decades ago, Taiwan was 
an authoritarian state. Yet today, presidents 
and legislators are elected through a peaceful, 
democratic process. I applaud Taiwan for 
cherishing these liberties rather than taking 
them for granted. 

The United States has been a close ally of 
Taiwan for many years, and our friendship is 
solidified by our core set of shared values. 
Justice, rule of law, human rights, and freedom 
of the press are treasured by people in 
both the United States and Taiwan. Furthermore, 
Taiwan is an important security and 
economic partner of the United States. 

As a member of the Congressional Taiwan 
Caucus, I am pleased to see Taiwan’s admission 
to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation 
group and World Trade Organization, as well 
as Taiwan’s observer status at the World 
Health Organization. However, Taiwan and its 
23 million people are still not fully represented 
in the United Nations. It is vital for the United 
States to continue to stand with Taiwan by 
supporting its meaningful participation in international 
bodies. This is why I have introduced 

H. Con. Res. 76, which supports Taiwan’s full 
membership in the United Nations. I urge my 
colleagues in Congress to join me in supporting 
Taiwan’s full and equal membership in 
the United Nations and other international organizations. 
I would again like to congratulate the people 
of Taiwan on their 104th National Day. This 
anniversary is a time to remember the sacrifices 
of the past and to look ahead to a 
promising future. 

f 

IN VENERATION OF RETIRED 
MAJOR JOHN SPARKS 

HON. DAVID SCOTT 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise today to pay tribute to the accomplishments 
of the retired Major John Sparks. Major 
Sparks is a trailblazer for the African American 

community, with a career that spans fifty-
seven years and three very different industries. 


Major Sparks joined the U.S. Marine Corps 
in 1954. After finishing first in his Drill Instructor 
School in San Diego, Major Sparks went 
on to serve his country in the Vietnam War. 
He was one of two African Americans to receive 
Battlefield Commission. Furthermore, 
Major Sparks continued to make strides as a 
service man when he was the first African 
American officer to be chosen to command 
Marines aboard a ship. Despite facing pervasive 
racism and segregation, John Sparks 
climbed the ranks of the US Marine Corps 
until he retired as a Major in 1978. 

With the asset of military training and service, 
Major Sparks joined the business world. 
After serving in the Marine Corps for over 
twenty years, he worked as Director of Educational 
Training at IBM for twenty years. Not 
done giving back to his community, Major 
Sparks subsequently taught at Booker T. 
Washington high school for thirteen years before 
retiring. 

Major Sparks has spent his professional career 
educating, leading and serving the American 
people in a number of different industries. 
There is much that can be said about Major 
Sparks’ diverse career. He undoubtedly 
opened doors for those that served after him 
in the armed services. He has helped educate 
and inspire both young minds and young professionals. 
He has been not only a leader in 
the military but also within his own community. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to not only honor 
the impressive achievements of this man, but 
also to commend his compassionate contributions 
to my Congressional district and to the 
great State of Georgia. I ask my colleagues to 
join me in honoring this distinguished individual. 


f 

RECOGNIZING MR. JOSEPH 
SCIAME, RECIPIENT OF THE 
SONS OF ITALY’S 2015 
GUGLIELMO MARCONI AWARD 

HON. KATHLEEN M. RICE 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Miss RICE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in recognition of Mr. Joseph Sciame, a 
resident of New Hyde Park, New York and 
life-long public servant who recently received 
the Sons of Italy’s 2015 Guglielmo Marconi 
Award, which is presented biennially to an 
Italian American who has made significant 
contributions to the United States. 

Mr. Sciame is truly deserving of this honor, 
as he has worked tirelessly throughout his life 
to serve others and strengthen the communities 
in which he lives and works. Mr. Sciame 
currently serves as Vice President of Community 
Relations at St. John’s University, the 
largest Catholic university in the United States. 
As a St. John’s alumnus and university administrator 
for three decades, Mr. Sciame has 
truly dedicated his life to serving the school 
and its surrounding community. He also 
serves as a board member of the Jamaica 
and Staten Island Chambers of Commerce, 
the Kupferberg Holocaust Center, and the Boy 
Scouts of America, and chairs the Board of 
Ethics of the Town of North Hempstead. Mr. 


E1404 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks October 1, 2015 

Sciame is the former Chairman of the National 
Association of Student Aid Administrators, and 
has long been active in the field of financial 
aid and higher education, both in New York 
and nationwide. 

As a proud and active Italian American, Mr. 
Sciame’s commitment to public service extends 
beyond St. John’s University. He currently 
serves as Chairman of the Conference 
of Presidents of Major Italian American Organizations 
and was the former National and 
State President and Foundation Trustee of the 
Sons of Italy, the largest and oldest Italian 
American fraternal organization. 

I would like to congratulate Mr. Sciame on 
receiving the 2015 Guglielmo Marconi Award, 
the Sons of Italy’s highest honor, and thank 
him for his service to our district and country. 
Mr. Sciame is a testament to the valuable contributions 
that Italian Americans have made to 
the United States throughout our history, and 
it is a tremendous honor to count him among 
my constituents. 

f 

JOHN TRACY 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud John Tracy for 
receiving the Jefferson County 2015 Hall of 
Fame Award from the West Chamber. 

The Hall of Fame Award recognizes outstanding 
individuals who have had significant, 
long-lasting impacts through their leadership 
and contributions to Jefferson County’s economy, 
community and legacy. 

John Tracy has shown a lifelong dedication 
to the Jefferson County community. John’s extensive 
involvement in three local Chambers 
of Commerce—Golden, West and Wheat 
Ridge—has helped to bring in new members, 
create new community events, and support 
economic development in the region. 

For the past ten years, John has served on 
the Jefferson County Business Lobby and the 
Lakewood Legacy Foundation. He has also 
held positions with the Golden Chamber 
Downtown Merchants and Golden Good Government 
League for more than 20 years. In 
addition, John helped found both the 
Applewood Business Association and the 
Wheat Ridge Business Association. 

Currently, John owns his own publishing 
company, John Tracy Publishing. In 2011, the 
City of Golden awarded John with the ‘Golden 
Living Landmark Award’ for his exceptional 
and diverse involvement in the community. 
Additionally, he has been recognized with 
Golden Rotary’s ‘Service Above Self’ award 
and the Golden Chamber’s ‘Charlie O’Brien 
Award.’ 

Congratulations to John Tracy for this well-
deserved honor by the West Chamber. I am 
grateful for his contributions to Jefferson 
County. 

HONORING MALAKOFF 
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 

HON. JEB HENSARLING 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, today I 
would like to honor Malakoff Elementary 
School of the Malakoff Independent School 
District from the Fifth Congressional District of 
Texas for excellence in education. Malakoff Elementary 
School was named to the United 
States Department of Education’s 2015 Blue 
Ribbon Schools Program, which: ‘‘recognizes 
public and private elementary, middle, and 
high schools where students perform at very 
high levels or where significant improvements 
are being made in students’ levels of academic 
achievement.’’ 

Malakoff Elementary School’s performance 
illustrates the commitment and dedication of 
the school board, administrators, teachers, 
and staff who provide students with a quality 
education. The school district, parents, students, 
and community should be applauded 
for this achievement. 

Mr. Speaker, as the representative for the 
Fifth Congressional District of Texas, I would 
like to commend Malakoff Elementary School 
for their continued educational achievements. 

f 

NATIONAL DAY OF THE REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA 

HON. JOHN SHIMKUS 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, October 10th is 
the national day of the Republic of China (Taiwan). 
This day commemorates the launch of 
the Wuchang Uprising of 1911, which in turn 
led to the establishment of the Republic of 
China (Taiwan) on January 1, 1912. As the 
United States and Taiwan share a close relationship, 
I would like to take this opportunity to 
wish the people of Taiwan a very Happy Double 
Ten Day. 

The relationship between the United States 
and Taiwan is both deep and longstanding, 
and encompass areas including security, culture, 
and trade. Taiwan is the 10th largest 
trading partner for the U.S., while the U.S. is 
Taiwan’s largest foreign investor. In 2014, 
24% of Taiwan’s total agricultural imports 
came from the U.S. Since 1993, Taiwan has 
been the 7th largest overseas market for U.S. 
agricultural exports. In 2014, Taiwan imported 
nearly $3.5 billion of U.S. agricultural products, 
up 10 percent from the previous year, making 
Taiwan one of the world’s largest consumers 
for U.S. agricultural products on a per capita 
basis. I am pleased that the 2015 Taiwan Agricultural 
Trade Goodwill Mission just completed 
a successful visit to the United States 
including my home state of Illinois. 

Taiwan also has proven its leadership in the 
global arena through its commitment to democracy, 
by contributing to international development 
and humanitarian missions, and 
through bold diplomatic initiatives such as 
President Ma’s East China Sea Peace Initiative 
and his South China Sea Peace Initiative, 
which seek to reduce tensions in those dis


puted waters. As a result of these efforts, a 
challenging world is in many ways a better 
place. I offer my thanks to Taiwan for their 
commitment democracy and stability in Asia 
and my best wishes to their people they observe 
and celebrate Double Ten Day. 

f 

EMMY DIMITROFF 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud Emmy 
Dimitroff for receiving the Golden Mayor’s 
Award for Excellence. 

The Golden Mayor’s Award for Excellence 
recognizes organizations, businesses and individuals 
that significantly contribute to the 
wellbeing and improvement of the City of 
Golden. 

Raised and schooled in Golden, Emmy has 
become a community leader through her six 
years of service on the Parks and Recreation 
Advisory Board, her work at the Clear Creek 
History Park and her leadership in Mitchell Elementary 
School’s Environmental Learning for 
the Future. Additionally, she is a substitute 
teacher in the Jefferson County School System. 


I congratulate Emmy Dimitroff for being the 
recipient of this well-deserved honor by Mayor 
Marjorie Sloan, and I thank Emmy for her continued 
commitment to the people and families 
of Golden. 

f 

NATIONAL DAY OF THE REPUBLIC 
OF CHINA (TAIWAN) 

HON. BARRY LOUDERMILK 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Speaker, as America 
joins in the celebration of the National Day 
of the Republic of China (Taiwan), it is reflective 
of the strong relationship between Taiwan 
and the United States. 

Located in a challenging regional environment, 
Taiwan has manifested its representative 
democracy as they strive to ensure a stable, 
strong government. Their thriving economy 
demonstrates their disciplined pursuit in 
fostering freedom and moral principles within 
their borders. The people of Taiwan are devoted 
to principles of liberty and self-governance, 
and they display a remarkable work 
ethic within their communities. 

Since the Taiwan Relations Act (TRA), 
signed in December of 1978, the United 
States stands with Taiwan, seeking to help 
maintain their peace and security. Marked by 
the TRA, America will continue to provide sufficient 
self-defense capabilities for Taiwan, in 
order to safeguard their homeland. 

Taiwan has proven to be a generous contributor 
to global efforts in fighting against disease 
and illness, and has been heavily involved 
in humanitarian assistance. They aided 
West Africa when faced with the Ebola outbreak, 
they provided Latin America and the 
Caribbean region training in preparedness and 
response for emergency situations, and they 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1405 

have responded to crises by delivering pre-
fabricated shelters and disaster relief to numerous 
countries. They even charitably donated 
$1 million towards a memorial for President 
Eisenhower on the National Mall in 
Washington, DC. Their involvement in worldwide 
affairs shows their genuine care and concern 
for America and our neighbors across the 
globe. 

The United States is committed to supporting 
Taiwan and remaining their ally, and 
will help them in their efforts to pursue freedom 
and democracy. 

f 

HONORING THE SERVICE AND SAC


RIFICE OF DEPUTY SHERIFF 

WILLIAM ‘‘BILL’’ MYERS 

HON. JEFF MILLER 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. MILLER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is 
with both profound sadness and deep gratitude 
that I pay tribute to Deputy Sheriff William 
Myers, of the Okaloosa County, Florida 
Sheriff’s Office, who gave his life in the line of 
duty on September 22, 2015. Deputy Myers 
served our Nation and the Okaloosa Sheriff’s 
Office with honor and distinction, and I am 
humbled to recognize his service and selfless 
sacrifice. 

Deputy Sheriff William ‘‘Bill’’ Myers dedicated 
his life to serving his country. He faithfully 
served in the United States Air Force for 
20 years, during which he was awarded the 
Meritorious Service Medal. After he left the 
military, Deputy Myers worked as a part-time 
Officer with the Valparaiso Police Department. 
In December 1989, he joined the Okaloosa 
County Sheriff’s Office as a Deputy Sheriff 
serving the local Northwest Florida community. 
During his tenure, he served in the Patrol Division, 
Court Security, and the Traffic Unit. Deputy 
Myers retired from the Okaloosa County 
Sheriff’s Department on November 30, 2013 
with 25 years of service, but continued his 
work with the agency as a volunteer. In January 
of this year, Deputy Myers returned to the 
Sheriff’s Office as a part-time Deputy in Judicial 
Process. Upon serving a Domestic Violence 
Injunction on Tuesday, September 22, 
2015, the suspect who was expected to turn 
over his firearms, instead opened fire, fatally 
injuring Deputy Myers. 

Through his military service and his law enforcement 
career, Deputy Myers made a 
choice to stand up and serve his country and 
community. There is no greater honor than to 
serve and protect the lives of your fellow man 
at the risk of your own. Deputy Myers exemplified 
the dedication to service and courage that 
is needed to make that decision and put on 
the uniform. As a law enforcement officer, 
Deputy Myers put himself in danger each and 
every day to protect and serve our community. 
We all entrust our lives to law enforcement officers 
because we know that when faced with 
serious criminal threats, they are trained to act 
quickly and effectively to neutralize the threat 
and protect civilian lives. We all pray that our 
officers do not have to confront a serious 
armed threat, but we sleep well at night knowing 
that if necessary they stand ready to protect 
and defend our community, even if that 
means making the ultimate sacrifice. 

In addition to his successful career and unwavering 
leadership in his community, Deputy 
Myers will be remembered as a dedicated officer 
and a man full of integrity and kindness. 
To his family and friends, he will always be remembered 
as a loving husband, father, and 
grandfather. 

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of a grateful community 
and Nation, I am humbled to honor the 
service and sacrifice of this local hero. My wife 
Vicki and I offer our sincere condolences to 
his wife, Jan; sons, Sean, Eric, and Adam; 
and the entire Myers family. May God bless 
them and all members of our Nation’s law enforcement 
community. 

f 

GRETCHEN CERVENY 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud Gretchen 
Cerveny for receiving the Jefferson County 
2015 Hall of Fame Award from the West 
Chamber. 

The Hall of Fame Award recognizes outstanding 
individuals who have had significant, 
long-lasting impacts through their leadership 
and contributions to Jefferson County’s economy, 
community and legacy. 

Gretchen started her career as a physical 
therapist and served as the president of the 
American Physical Therapy Association 
(APTA) Colorado chapter. Her work in this 
area received several awards, including the 
Bob Doctor Service Award from the Colorado 
Chapter of the APTA, Outstanding Physical 
Therapist of the Year from the APTA (1980), 
and a recognition from Lutheran Medical Center 
for her twenty-five years of service, some 
of which as the Physical Therapist Department 
Head (1976–1994). 

In 1997, Gretchen was elected Mayor of 
Wheat Ridge where she participated in groups 
such as the Colorado Municipal League, Strategic 
Visioning Committee, Juvenile Justice 
Committee, Transportation Committee, and 
Tax Policy Committee, among others. She 
worked extensively with the Senior Resource 
Center (SRC) and helped to reauthorize the 
Older Americans Act. Her efforts as Mayor 
have been recognized by the Denver Regional 
Council of Governments and the National Association 
of Parliamentarians. 

Gretchen spent five years on the Colorado 
Commission on Aging and remains involved 
with the SRC. Gretchen also serves on the 
Jefferson County Aging Well Committee and is 
an active member of the Wheat Ridge Business 
Association. 

Congratulations to Gretchen Cerveny for 
this well-deserved honor by the West Chamber. 
I am grateful for her contributions to Jefferson 
County. 

f 

HONORING HAITI RURAL ELECTRIC 
COOPERATIVE LINEMEN 

HON. BILLY LONG 

OF MISSOURI 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. LONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
honor of 7 volunteer electric linemen from 

White River Valley in Branson, Missouri, who 
traveled to Haiti this June and August to help 
provide sustainable seven-day-a-week electric 
service to Haitians. 

Cory Brandon Sanders, Raymond Roy, William 
Gyger, William Marr, Matthew Maggard, 
Mark Visnosky, and Jacob Kennedy donated 
their time and talents as part of the National 
Rural Electric Cooperative Association’s 
(NRECA) Haiti Rural Electric Cooperative 
(HREC) program. 

This project is the first formal privately 
owned and operated distribution utility in the 
country, which intends to demonstrate the feasibility 
of solar-diesel hybrid power generation 
for isolated rural mini-grids. The goal that 
these men worked toward making 1,600 connections 
within a grid to unite the underserved 
Haitian communes of Roche-a-Bateau, 
Coteaux, and Port-a-Piment. 

Mr. Speaker, these 7 selfless linemen from 
Southwest Missouri deserve our thanks and 
recognition for their dedication to the HREC’s 
noble goal of bringing affordable and reliable 
power to the southern coast of Haiti. Stories 
like theirs make me ever-prouder to serve Missouri’s 
Seventh Congressional District. 

f 

REAUTHORIZE THE LAND AND 

WATER CONSERVATION FUND 

HON. RON KIND 

OF WISCONSIN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. KIND. Mr. Speaker, I am here today to 
speak out in favor of reauthorizing the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund. As you know, 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund was 
established fifty years ago and has since become 
our nation’s most successful conservation 
program—all without spending a single 
dime of taxpayer dollars. I wish to show my 
strong support for reauthorization of the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund. 

The Land and Water Conservation Fund is 
a crucial component of our nation’s conservation 
initiatives. As an avid hunter and outdoorsman, 
I believe that preserving our nation’s 
natural treasures for future generations 
is a responsibility that we must take seriously. 
Not only is stewardship of our lands the right 
thing to do, but it’s also a sound investment. 
We know that every dollar spent acquiring 
LWCF land creates a return of four dollars to 
local communities. Outdoor recreation activities 
contribute significantly to our national and 
state economies. In my home state of Wisconsin, 
outdoor recreational activities contribute 
over $9.7 billion to our state economy 
each year. 

The Land and Water Conservation Fund 
has helped to create outdoor recreation opportunities 
for each and every state. Wisconsin 
has received $211 million to fund such 
projects as the Chequamegon-Nicolet National 
Forest, the Lower St. Croix National Scenic 
River, and the Ice Age National Scenic Trail, 
where the Land and Water Conservation Fund 
participated in a highly successful public-private 
partnership to preserve additional sections 
of the trail. LWCF’s grant programs have 
also allowed state and local governments to 
decide which conservation programs work 
best for them. The Land and Water Conservation 
Fund’s highly successful grant program 


E1406 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks October 1, 2015 

matches federal dollars with state and local 
contributions to ensure a cooperative approach 
to conserving our nation’s environment. 
In Wisconsin, the LWCF has contributed 
$3,675,681 to match state and local conservation 
projects and to help us preserve Wisconsin’s 
beautiful outdoors. 

For the past fifty years, the Land and Water 
Conservation Fund has played an integral role 
in achieving our nation’s conservation goals. I 
urge my colleagues to support reauthorization 
of the Land and Water Conservation Fund so 
that we can continue to protect our wildlife, 
create opportunities and access to public 
lands for sportsmen and women, and provide 
economic benefits to our state and local communities. 


f 

PREMIUM PANELS, INC. 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize Premium Panels Inc. in Arvada, 
Colorado for being honored by Colorado 
Companies to Watch (CCTW). 

CCTW is a unique awards program that recognizes 
and celebrates the contribution and 
innovation of diverse second-stage companies 
that exemplify strong management and community 
service involvement. While there are 
many outstanding companies in Colorado, 
Premium Panels Inc. was chosen based on 
their positive impact on economic growth in 
the region. 

Premium Panels began in 2000 as a singular 
operation in Arvada, Colorado with Jeff 
Patch at the helm. Today, the company has 
approximately 34 employees and has grown to 
be a leader in metal roofing panels for commercial 
and residential roofing. 

The spirit of the Premium Panels organization 
is fueled by strong company values of integrity, 
respect, customer satisfaction, and 
education. They are strong advocates for the 
roofing industry. Through volunteerism with 
the Colorado Roofers Association, Premium 
Panels helps educate roofers on safety measures 
and new and improved installation methods. 


I congratulate Premium Panels Inc. and all 
of their employees for being recognized as a 
Colorado Company to Watch. I am proud of 
the service they provide our community and 
am certain their service will continue to benefit 
the roofing industry and our communities for 
decades to come. 

f 

RECOGNIZING EDWARD SORGE 

HON. DANIEL M. DONOVAN, JR. 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. DONOVAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize the untiring dedication of Staten Island’s 
Edward Sorge in his service to the community. 


Born on October 6, 1934, Edward has remained 
a lifelong Staten Islander. After graduating 
from New Dorp High School in 1952, 
Ed’s patriotism led him to enlist in the U.S. Air 

Force, where he served his country honorably. 
In addition to his love of country was his love 
of golf. It goes without saying that as a two-
time Staten Island Amateur Golf Champion, he 
certainly knows his way around the greens. 

After his service in the Air Force, Ed became 
a PGA Professional at Silver Lake Golf 
Course, where he served for over 20 years. 
Among his former students there include PGA 
Tour Member Bill Britton and Staten Island 
Amateur and Classic champions Pete Meurer, 
Rod Stilwell, and Ed Sorge, Jr. After leaving 
Silver Lake Golf Course in 1988, Ed continued 
his work as a PGA Professional for an additional 
20 years, conducting numerous junior 
golf clinics. 

Since 2009, Ed has volunteered with several 
charitable organizations in his community. 
He has devoted his time at myriad golf events 
to raise money for charity by directing clinics 
before the shotgun starts and participating in 
‘‘Beat the Pro’’ competitions on a par three 
hole during the rounds. Alongside his devotion 
to volunteering, Ed’s goal as a PGA professional 
is to make the game of golf enjoyable 
for everyone. 

Mr. Speaker, Edward Sorge’s dedication to 
charity and improving his community is the essence 
of the model Staten Islander. I thank 
him for all of his great work and I am proud 
to honor this great American from New York’s 
11th District. 

f 

CONGRATULATING THE HOYT LI


BRARY OF SAGINAW ON THEIR 

125TH ANNIVERSARY 

HON. DANIEL T. KILDEE 

OF MICHIGAN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I ask the United 
States House of Representatives to join me in 
recognizing the Hoyt Library on the occasion 
of their 125th year of continuous service. It 
stands today as a shining example of a beautiful, 
historic, and functional modern library. 

In 1890, The Saginaw Evening News declared 
the Hoyt Library ‘‘a noble institution’’ 
and ‘‘the pride of all Saginawians.’’ The library 
was a gift to the people of Saginaw from New 
York businessman Jesse Hoyt (1815 through 
1882), who had real estate and lumber interests 
in the Saginaw Valley. Hoyt’s will set 
aside $100,000 for a public library in East 
Saginaw. After a national competition among 
leading architects, the Hoyt Trust chose the 
Boston architectural firm of Van Brunt and 
Howe. When the Richardsonian Romanesque 
style building was completed it exemplified 
modern library construction. The present building 
includes a 1921 addition by Edward Tilton 
of New York and a 1960 addition by Frederick 

E. Wigen Architects of Saginaw. 
Harriet Ames, the first librarian at Hoyt, was 
a Boston scholar and a pioneer in librarianship 
who brought her passion for good books and 
reading to a commercial Midwestern boomtown. 
She served Saginaw for over 30 years 
and brought cultural and educational advancement 
not just to Saginaw, but to the entire 
state of Michigan through her dedication to 
scholarly pursuits. 

Sparked by Ms. Ames, the Hoyt Library remains 
a fixture in the cultural and educational 
realm in Michigan. It is home to one of the 

premier Local History and Genealogy collections 
in Michigan and the greater Midwest. 
Hoyt Library has served as a government documents 
depository for all 125 years of operation. 
Beyond its historically significant archives 
and up-to-date print collections, the Library 
provides meeting spaces and quiet reading 
nooks along with internet access computers 
and Wi-Fi for today’s technologically 
savvy library users. The library staff remains 
dedicated to providing professional library programs 
and services to all who enter. 

Mr. Speaker, I applaud the work done by 
the Hoyt Library in Saginaw and thank them 
for the service they have provided to the city 
of Saginaw. 

f 

CHRISTIAN ACTION GUILD 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud the Christian 
Action Guild (CAG) for receiving the Golden 
Mayor’s Award for Excellence. 

The Golden Mayor’s Award for Excellence 
recognizes organizations, businesses and individuals 
that significantly contribute to the 
wellbeing and improvement of the City of 
Golden. 

For 49 years, the Christian Action Guild has 
provided food, clothing and financial assistance 
to Golden residents in need. Each 
month, CAG serves over 400 at-risk Golden 
families, individuals and members of the 
homeless community, providing personal products, 
canned goods, and fresh food items. 

I congratulate the Christian Action Guild for 
being the recipient of this well-deserved honor 
by Mayor Marjorie Sloan and I thank all the 
members of the CAG for their continued commitment 
to the people and families they serve. 

f 

COMMEMORATING NATIONAL DAY 
OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

HON. LEONARD LANCE 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. LANCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
commemorate the National Day of the Republic 
of China and to highlight the close relationship 
between Taiwan and the United States of 
America. October 10th marks the anniversary 
of the creation of the Republic of China in 
1912. National Day celebrates Taiwanese democracy, 
its culture and its accomplished people 
and this occasion provides the United 
States an opportunity to celebrate our great 
ally. 

As a leader in the Asia Pacific region, Taiwan 
has experienced incredible economic 
growth and stability throughout its history. With 
a population of over 23 million people and a 
trillion dollar GDP, Taiwan has proved to be 
one of Asia’s economic engines. The Taiwanese 
economy has maintained an impressive 
economic growth rate and has risen to be 
the 10th-largest trade partner of the United 
States. Taiwan continues to be an example to 
other economies around the world. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1407 

The friendship between our two Nations has 
been mutually prosperous since we joined in 
unity in the Pacific Theatre in World War II. 
With this year marking 70 years since the end 
of the War, our Nation should reflect on how 
this unique alliance has had such a positive 
impact on both countries. 

The trust and respect built between our two 
Nations since that time have resulted in tremendous 
technology innovation and global resources 
integration. The cooperation between 
Taiwan and the United States has enabled the 
two countries to enhance each other’s 
strengths and nurture industries that create 
jobs and opportunities for both nations. 

The cooperation between Taiwan and the 
United States should be a global model for civility, 
respect, prosperity and peace. 

Mr. Speaker, on National Day we are all reminded 
how strategically important our mutually 
respectful relationship has been for the 
Republic of China and the United States. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. BETTY McCOLLUM 

OF MINNESOTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, last week I 
attended my son’s wedding in Japan causing 
me to miss the Pope’s historic address to 
Congress as well as votes on September 24 
and 25, 2015. 

Had I been present, I would have voted in 
support of the following bills and amendments. 

1. H.R. 322 

2. Lowenthal Amendment to H.R. 348 
3. Grijalva Amendment to H.R. 348 
4. Gallego Amendment to H.R. 348 
5. Jackson Lee Amendment #1 to H.R. 348 
6. Dingell Amendment to H.R. 348 
7. Jackson Lee Amendment #2 to H.R. 348 
8. Peters/Polis/Lowenthal/Lieu Amendment 
to H.R. 348 
9. Johnson (GA) Amendment to H.R. 348 
10. Democratic Motion to Recommit H.R. 
348 
Had I been present I would have voted in 
opposition to the following bills and amendments. 


1. Gosar Amendment to H.R. 348 
2. Final Passage of H.R. 348 
f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. KEVIN BRADY 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. BRADY of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on roll-
call No. 528, had I been present, I would have 
voted no. 

f 

SAL AND GAIL GLESSER 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud Sal and Gail 

Glesser, the founders and owners of Spyderco 
Knives for receiving the Golden Mayor’s 
Award for Excellence. 

The Golden Mayor’s Award for Excellence 
recognizes organizations, businesses and individuals 
that significantly contribute to the 
wellbeing and improvement of the City of 
Golden. 

The Glessers founded Spyderco in 1978 
and have expanded their company into a multimillion-
dollar business, employing more than 
80 people in their new facility. Sal and Gail 
contribute to the Golden community through 
their support of local events and organizations 
such as the USA Pro Challenge, the Jeffco 
Innovator’s Workshop, Foothills Art Center, the 
local Alzheimer’s Chapter, the Parkinson’s 
Foundation, and the Pink Fire Trucks program. 
Additionally, Spyderco has raised tons of food 
and product donations through employee food 
drives. 

I congratulate Sal and Gail Glesser for 
being the recipients of this well-deserved 
honor by Mayor Marjorie Sloan, and I thank 
them for their continued commitment to the 
people and families of Golden. 

f 

RECOGNIZING THELMA FAGIN 
HYMAN 

HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON 

OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
ask the House of Representatives to join me 
in recognizing Thelma Fagin Hyman, who devoted 
her professional life to teaching in the 
segregated school system of the District of 
Columbia and who continued teaching for 
years after the historic U.S. Supreme Court 
decision in Brown v. Board of Education 
ended segregation in the District and elsewhere. 


The Dunbar Senior High School class of 
1955, which celebrates its 60th anniversary 
this year, particularly thanks Ms. Hyman for 
her dedication as a teacher and recognizes 
her as a mentor of the class of 1955. 

Thelma Fagin Hyman was born January 29, 
1917, at Freeman’s Hospital (now Howard 
University Hospital) and educated in District of 
Columbia public schools. She received her 
Bachelor of Science from Howard University 
and her Master of Arts from Columbia University. 
Before returning to Dunbar High School in 
1946, Ms. Hyman taught physical education at 
Cardozo High School and Turner Jr. High 
School in D.C. She remained at Dunbar until 
she retired in 1964. She was married to Vincent 
Fagin for 38 years until his death. Later, 
she married Harold Hyman. 

Ms. Hyman taught physical education to 
many students in the Dunbar class of 1955. 
She personified the excellence and dedication 
Dunbar teachers brought to their work. The 
class of 1955 believes it most appropriate to 
recognize one of its outstanding teachers as 
the class celebrates its 60th anniversary. At 
98, Thelma Fagin Hyman is as lively today as 
she was as a teacher at Dunbar. 

Along with the class of 1955, I ask the 
House of Representatives to join me in commending 
Thelma Fagin Hyman for her dedication 
as a teacher in the District of Columbia 
public schools, particularly at Dunbar High 

School, and as a mentor of the Dunbar class 
of 1955. 

f 

THE CENTENNIAL OF CONGREGA


TION BETH SHALOM RODFE 

ZEDEK 

HON. JOE COURTNEY 

OF CONNECTICUT 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, today I rise 
to congratulate the entire Congregation Beth 
Shalom Rodfe Zedek on their 100th year of 
providing a place for spiritual growth and gathering 
to the Jewish community in Chester and 
the surrounding area. This Congregation has 
grown from two small groups of farmers who 
more than a century ago sought a place to 
gather and worship, to a thriving community 
and religious center that is a cornerstone of 
my Congressional district. 

In the 1800s, Jews in Connecticut primarily 
worshiped in small minyans in their homes. 
But as the Jewish community in our region 
grew, leaders sought larger, public places to 
worship. In the mid-1990s, Temple Beth Shalom 
and Congregation Rodfe Zedek merged to 
become the community that exists today. The 
building in which they hold services is also a 
testament to their creativity and collaboration. 
The new, permanent home for the congregation 
is the result of work by artist Sol LeWitt 
and local architect Stephen Lloyd. The synagogue 
pays homage to tradition, made with 
wooden beams in the style of old eastern European 
synagogues—many of which were destroyed 
in the Holocaust. It is this commitment 
to history—and an eye towards the future— 
that will continue to sustain this congregation 
for years to come. 

I now ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating 
Beth Shalom Rodfe Zedek on 100 
years of community and congregation, and 
wish them all the best for the next century of 
Jewish life in eastern Connecticut. 

f 

HUNGER AND MALNUTRITION 

HON. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM 

OF NEW MEXICO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Ms. MICHELLE LUJAN GRISHAM of New 
Mexico. Mr. Speaker, hunger and malnutrition 
affect millions of Americans every day. I have 
witnessed this in my home state of New Mexico, 
which has some of the highest hunger 
rates in the country. These rates are especially 
high among vulnerable populations, such 
as children and seniors. Many working families 
have to rely on food banks and church-sponsored 
meal programs to put food on the table. 
Often times, these families live in food deserts 
and cannot access affordable and healthy 
foods, which puts them at risk of becoming 
malnourished. 

Nearly 16 million American children face 
hunger, and most of the food they receive is 
not considered healthy; rather, their parents 
are more inclined to buy the most affordable 
food available. The lack of access to healthy 
food hurts a child’s development, including 
physical and mental health, academic achievement 
and future economic prosperity. 


E1408 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks October 1, 2015 

Seniors are among the most physically vulnerable 
to hunger. They face unique nutritional 
requirements, medical conditions and mobility 
restrictions. In addition to the lack of access to 
nutritious foods, many seniors are not able to 
absorb certain foods, compromising their 
health and putting them at risk for increased 
long-term care and hospitalization. 

Although hunger and malnutrition affect so 
many in our communities, Congress is not 
doing enough to address these issues. Instead, 
we’ve seen Congress try time after time 
to cut funding for the Supplemental Nutrition 
Assistance Program (SNAP), which provides 
food for more than 45 million Americans. 
We’ve also seen Congress attempt to roll back 
school meal standards, which are aimed to improve 
nutrition among children. 

Cutting funding for nutritional programs will 
not save the federal government money. We 
know that hunger and malnutrition increase 
risk of illness and result in longer hospital 
stays, slower healing, greater risk for re-hospitalizations 
and complications. 

As a government so concerned about health 
care costs, how are we not laser-focused on 
the nutritional status of patients? We seek solutions 
for health care costs every day, particularly 
from those dually eligible for Medicare 
and Medicaid. However, it is clear that nutritional 
status deserves more attention. 

September 28 through October 2 has been 
designated as Malnutrition Awareness Week. 
Let us use this as a call to action to increase 
awareness and find solutions that support better 
nutrition for our communities. Healthy citizens 
mean a healthy society and healthy 
economy. 

f 

THOMAS MURRAY 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud Thomas Murray 
for receiving the Jefferson County 2015 
Hall of Fame Award from the West Chamber. 

The Hall of Fame Award recognizes outstanding 
individuals who have had significant, 
long-lasting impacts through their leadership 
and contributions to Jefferson County’s economy, 
community and legacy. 

Tom has certainly cemented his place in 
Jefferson County history by laying down the 
building bricks of the community. Tom, CEO of 
Lakewood Brick and Tile, inherited the business 
from his father and learned the values of 
hard work and leadership from a young age. 

One of Tom’s biggest passions is education. 
In the 1980s, he served as co-chair of the 
Steering Committee of the Education-Business 
Partnership for the Lakewood Chamber. Tom 
went on to become General Chairman of Education 
2000 for Jefferson County Schools, a 
position he maintained for four years. He has 
also served on the boards of the Jefferson 
Foundation, Warren Vocational Technical High 
School, and Jefferson County Advisory Council 
for Vocational Education. 

Today, Tom continues this dedication to 
education by serving on the Jefferson County 
Schools’ Capital Improvement Plan Oversight 
Committee and coaching football at Lakewood 
High School. Tom’s exceptional work has 

been recognized with several awards, including 
West Chamber Businessman of the Year, 
The Sentinel Newspaper Man of the Year, and 
The Rocky Mountain News Milestone Award. 

Congratulations to Thomas Murray for this 
well-deserved honor by the West Chamber. I 
am grateful for his contributions to Jefferson 
County. 

f 

CELEBRATING THE 65TH ANNIVER


SARY OF DALLAS CHRISTIAN 

COLLEGE 

HON. KENNY MARCHANT 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. MARCHANT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to celebrate 65 years of successful expansion 
of education and Christianity through Dallas 
Christian College founded right outside of 
downtown Dallas in 1950. 

Dallas Christian College (DCC) was established 
by church leaders and an enthusiastic 
and determined man named Vernon Newland. 
Vernon had a tough childhood that would push 
him to strive for a better life for himself and 
others. Being sent to live with his grandmother 
at the age of nine Vernon wanted to share 
God with people all over the world. As Vernon 
and several family members were traveling to 
conduct mission work they were sent to a Japanese 
internment camp shortly after arriving in 
the Philippines. They remained there for almost 
three years as they were taken right 
after Pearl Harbor had occurred. It was when 
Vernon and his family members returned to 
the United States that he was motivated to increase 
involvement in the church amongst the 
population. 

The Dallas Christian College was one of 
several schools Vernon had established, along 
with approximately two dozen churches and 
new ones coming along every two months or 
so. DCC was quickly expanding. With such 
growth, by the 1960s DCC needed more 
space and relocated to its current home in 
Farmers Branch, which resides in the 24th district 
of Texas. As DCC grew so did its mission, 
its reach expanded to troubled neighborhoods 
and was known for students and alumni to 
serve in urban centers all over the country. 
The school would also begin offering new programs 
teaching psychology, business, and 
education, attempting to broaden the horizons 
of its students and prepare them for different 
paths in life. 

Today DCC aims to educate and mentor the 
student body under God’s influence and prepare 
them for all that life may bring. Training 
for service to the church and Christian ministry 
has been significant to the school’s mission. 
The college wants to ensure that the student 
body is well educated and mentored in many 
aspects of life. 

Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to recognize 
the 65th anniversary of Dallas Christian College. 
I ask all of my distinguished colleagues 
to join me in celebrating this milestone in the 
college’s history. 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. KEVIN BRADY 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. BRADY of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on roll-
call No. 527, had I been present, I would have 
voted yes. 

f 

IN RECOGNITION OF WORKING 

AMERICANS AND MANUFAC


TURING DAY 

HON. GENE GREEN 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. GENE GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise to recognize the hard working men and 
women of Northside and Eastside Houston 
and Harris County, Texas and the valuable 
contributions manufacturers give to our local 
economy. 

The 29th District of Texas is one of the largest 
manufacturing districts in the country. 
Home to the Port of Houston, the Houston 
Ship Channel, and the largest petrochemical 
complex in the country, over 31,000 people 
work in the refineries, chemical plants, pipe 
and metal manufacturers and machine shops 
throughout our district. 

Many of these jobs demand technical skills, 
training, and years of experience and have 
provided good, middle class wages that have 
paid off many house notes and college tuition 
bills in my district. 

For the third year in a row, Houston leads 
the nation in merchandise exports—sending 
$119 billion in manufactured goods overseas. 
The majority of these exports are related to 
the oil, gas, and chemical industries. 

I proudly stand with manufacturing workers 
in Houston and around the country, who go to 
work each day without complaint, and continue 
to make the label ‘‘Made in America’’ the 
gold standard in quality worldwide. 

Now is the time for Congress to stand with 
working families and our nation’s manufacturers 
and reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. 
Ex-Im supports thousands of jobs throughout 
our great country at no cost to the American 
people. 

f 

FAYE GRIFFIN 

HON. ED PERLMUTTER 

OF COLORADO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize and applaud Faye Griffin 
for receiving the Jefferson County 2015 Hall of 
Fame Award from the West Chamber. 

The Hall of Fame Award recognizes outstanding 
individuals who have had significant, 
long-lasting impacts through their leadership 
and contributions to Jefferson County’s economy, 
community and legacy. 

Faye Griffin started her forty year career in 
Jefferson County working in the County Clerk 
& Recorder office for 24 years. Eventually 
serving as Chief Deputy of the department, 
Faye helped modernize technology and coordinated 
successful general and primary elections. 
In 2006, Faye was elected Treasurer 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1409 

and served in this capacity until 2008 when 
she was nominated to the Board of County 
Commissioners. 

In her six years on the Board of County 
Commissioners, Jefferson County reached a 
balanced budget every year and earned extraordinary 
financial ratings from several national 
rating organizations. As a Commissioner, 
she helped bring attention to Human 
Services programs to aid children and families 
in need and amended the Zoning Resolution 
to simplify the zoning application process. 

Currently, Faye serves as Jefferson County 
Clerk and Recorder. She is also involved in 
the Child and Youth Leadership Commission, 
the Jefferson County Head Start Policy Council, 
the Rocky Flats Stewardship Council, and 
the Urban Drainage and Flood Control District 
Board. In 2012, Faye was honored as an Outstanding 
Woman of Jefferson County. 

Congratulations to Faye Griffin for this well-
deserved honor by the West Chamber. I am 
grateful for her contributions to Jefferson 
County. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. VICKY HARTZLER 

OF MISSOURI 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, on Monday, 
September 28, 2015, I was unable to vote. 
Had I been present, I would have voted as follows: 
On rollcall No. 519, yea. On rollcall No. 
520, yea. 

f 

IN MEMORY OF FOREST ACRES 
POLICE OFFICER GREG ALIA 

HON. JOE WILSON 

OF SOUTH CAROLINA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, 
yesterday, September 30, 2015, Officer 
Greg Alia was killed in the line of duty. A graduate 
of Richland Northeast High School and 
the University of South Carolina, Police Chief 
Gene Shealy described Officer Alia as ‘‘an 
outstanding man and an outstanding police officer.’’ 
As a seven year veteran of Forest 
Acres Police Department, Greg was a role 
model for new officers who showed courage 
and dedication in protecting the people of Forest 
Acres, South Carolina. He lived up to the 
highest standards of being an Eagle Scout of 
Troop 100 of St. Joseph Catholic Church of 
Columbia. 

Our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, 
Kassy, and their five month old son, Sal, his 
parents, Dr. Richard and Alexis Alia of Forest 
Acres, and his fellow officers at Forest Acres 
Police Department. I am grateful for the outpouring 
of love and support for Forest Acres, 
for our community, and for our citizens during 
this tragic time. 

God bless the memory and service of Greg 
Alia. 

RECOGNIZING MINNESOTA’S OWN 
FEDERAL DUCK STAMP WINNER 

HON. TOM EMMER 

OF MINNESOTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. EMMER of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to recognize Robert Hautman of 
Delano, Minnesota on his impressive second 
place finish in the 2015 Federal Duck Stamp 
Contest. Robert’s stamp features several mallard 
ducks flying over a lake. 

The Federal Duck Stamp contest began in 
1949 as a result of growing concern among 
Americans over the destruction of wetlands, 
which are the home to migratory waterfowl. Of 
every dollar spent on duck stamps, ninety-
eight cents is given to the Migratory Bird Conservation 
Fund, which helps to conserve natural 
habitats. 

Minnesota is home to some of the most 
amazing natural scenery and wildlife, and because 
of this, I am incredibly passionate about 
the great outdoors. I have always been of the 
strong belief that it is every global citizen’s 
duty to help protect and maintain our environment 
for future generations to come. I think 
the Federal Duck Stamp contest is wonderful 
because it does exactly that. 

I would like to applaud Robert Hautman for 
contributing to a contest with such a worthy 
cause. I would like to give him an extra shout 
out for being from my hometown as well. 

As a result of Robert’s effort, more funds 
will be raised to preserve the environment, 
and for that we—and our future generations— 
thank you. 

f 

TEANECK FIRE DEPARTMENT 

HON. BILL PASCRELL, JR. 

OF NEW JERSEY 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize the brave men and women of the 
Teaneck Fire Department who will celebrate 
100 years of serving and protecting the residents 
of Teaneck this Sunday October 4, 
2015. 

The first organized fire company in Teaneck 
was Defender Hook and Ladder Co., which 
was formed on August 12, 1895. It was not 
until 1915 that four of Teaneck’s five companies 
were combined into the official municipal 
Teaneck Fire Department. 

As they were growing in the 1920s, a very 
tough basement fire occurred on Maitland Avenue. 
Future Deputy Chief Harry Davis, then 
working for the Department of Public Works, 
made numerous entries without a breathing 
apparatus, manning a 21/2’’ line. He passed 
out repeatedly, was revived, and continued to 
go back in until the house was saved. He is 
a great reflection as to how relentlessly the 
Teaneck Fire Department has attacked fires 
and how they continued to do so even today. 

The Teaneck Fire Department stays committed 
to self-assessment and innovation. 
Since the 1970s, brush fires have been reduced 
by 90% and building fires declined by 
about a third, with arson now much less of a 
problem. New apparatuses, the four stations 
being staffed 24 hours a day with an adequate 

level of staffing, strict proactive code enforcement, 
the advanced municipal fire system, and 
the aggressive fire investigation programs 
have proven effective in reducing fires. 

Beyond their roles in fire emergencies, the 
Teaneck Fire Department remains committed 
to serving the residents through their innovative 
Good Morning Check-Up Program. This 
program is designed for shut-ins and senior 
citizens who live alone and have no one to 
look in on them on a regular basis. The program 
provides subscribers with a telephone 
call seven days a week, between the hours of 
8 a.m. and 9 a.m. If a resident is not-responsive 
to multiple phone calls then a firefighter is 
dispatched to the house to make sure all is 
well. This service has helped countless lives 
already. 

When terrorists flew planes into the North 
and South Tower of the World Trade Center 
on September 11, 2011, the brave members 
of the Teaneck Fire Department volunteered 
to help their colleagues across the Hudson 
River. Their sacrifices during and after the 
tragedy continue to inspire the Teaneck Fire 
Department today as well as those they serve. 

As Co-Chair of the Congressional Fire Services 
Caucus, I have had the honor of visiting 
and inspecting many fire stations throughout 
our great nation. Therefore it gives me pride to 
recognize the excellence of the Teaneck Fire 
Department and thank them for serving the 
residents of Teaneck. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask that you join our colleagues 
and me in recognizing the 100 year 
anniversary of the Teaneck Fire Department. 

f 

IN RECOGNITION OF BROWARD 

COUNTY, FLORIDA’S 100TH ANNI


VERSARY 

HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
extend the most sincere congratulations to 
Broward County, Florida on celebrating its 
100th anniversary. From the back-breaking 
work and ingenuity of the industrial age to the 
modernity of this tech-savvy generation, 
Broward County’s progress is a stark example 
of the progressive spirit of America. It is truly 
my honor to represent such a diverse and 
unique county in the United States Congress. 

The theme of the centennial celebration is, 
‘‘Duende’’. Duende is defined as the power to 
attract through personal magnetism and 
charm. That is exactly what Broward county 
has to offer. Whether you are one of the over 

1.8 million people that call Broward County 
home, the tens of thousands that are winter 
residents, or the countless millions that visit 
for vacation, our county’s charm is magnetic. 
The soul of this community comes from not 
only the beautiful 1,200 square miles that 
make up Broward County, but from the diverse 
and thriving culture found there. From 
the rich soil of the Everglades National Park to 
the white sandy beaches of the Atlantic 
Ocean, it is as charmingly diverse as the communities 
that reside within its borders. 
Mr. Speaker, Broward County is undoubtedly 
a wonderful embodiment of the ‘‘Sunshine 
State’’ and all it has to offer. I once 
again want to congratulate the County on this 


E1410 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks October 1, 2015 

momentous occasion of its centennial anniversary. 


f 

IN HONOR OF SHILOH BAPTIST 
CHURCH’S 145TH ANNIVERSARY 

HON. DAVID SCOTT 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise today to honor the 145th anniversary of 
the Shiloh Baptist Church in Jonesboro, GA. 
Since the end of the Civil War, this church has 
stood as a beacon of worship and its congregation 
is a testament to how faith brings a 
community together. 

In 1870, Reverend Frank Q. Graham, Reverend 
A.D. Delmarta and Reverend G.B. Austin, 
searching for a place to worship, organized 
Shiloh Baptist Church under a Brush 
Arbor. Meetings were held in the Arbor until 
the group was able to build a church across 
the street, near the church’s present location. 
After the first building was burned down by a 
fire, the worshippers met in an old school until 
the church was rebuilt. In 1962, the church 
was struck by lightning and completely destroyed. 
Held together by their faith, the congregation 
met in an elementary school cafeteria 
until Shiloh Baptist was rebuilt. 

Shiloh Baptist Church has also played its 
part in American history. When the NAACP 
chartered their membership in Clayton County, 
Georgia, Shiloh Baptist church was one of the 
first to purchase membership. When Atlanta, 
Georgia hosted the 1996 summer Olympics, 
the church was a reception for the Olympic 
torch, 

The Shiloh Baptist Church of Jonesboro is 
an example to all of how worship and faith can 
bring a group of people together. Despite numerous 
damages and subsequent reconstruction 
and renovations to the physical structure, 
the Shiloh Baptist community is celebrating 
145 years of worship. The strength or their 
congregation’s faith has been demonstrated 
time and time again. The church has won 
awards for their wide attendance and continues 
to attract church-goers from the 
Jonesboro area. The congregation has not let 
their spirit falter and for this I congratulate 
them on 145 years of worship. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 
Shiloh Baptist congregation for 145 years of 
worship. I would like to commend them for 
being a cornerstone in the Jonesboro community 
as well as within the great State of Georgia. 
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring 
the anniversary of Jonesboro’s Shiloh Baptist 
Church. Thank you and God bless. 

f 

CELEBRATING ST. BEN’S NATIONAL 
SCIENCE FOUNDATION 
AWARD 

HON. TOM EMMER 

OF MINNESOTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. EMMER of Minnesota. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to celebrate the College of Saint 
Benedict in Collegeville, Minnesota. This college 
has a stellar reputation throughout the 
state of Minnesota, and for good reason. 

It was recently announced that the College 
of Saint Benedict is a recipient of a National 
Science Foundation award for their collaboration 
in a project entitled ‘‘Collaborative Research: 
Developing and Assessing Effective 
Cyberlearning within the STEM Wiki 
Hyperlibrary.’’ As a result of receiving this 
prestigious award, the college will receive 
$25,484 dollars. 

While many things remain uncertain in this 
world, one does not. Science, mathematics 
and technology are keys to the future. It is so 
critical that colleges and universities throughout 
the United States place a strong emphasis 
on these fields so that our country can continue 
to evolve, succeed and remain competitive 
in this constantly developing world. 

That is why I want to commend the College 
of Saint Benedict here, today. The emphasis 
put on science, mathematics and technology 
is evident by receipt of this award. 

I thank the College of Saint Benedict for 
motivating students to look towards the future 
and do what is best for Minnesota, and the 
United States as a whole. 

f 

HONORING HABCO MANUFAC


TURING AND THE HABILITATION 

CENTER FOR THE HANDICAPPED 

HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
honor of HABCO Manufacturing, the Habilitation 
Center for the Handicapped, and the upcoming 
celebration of National Manufacturing 
Day. 

HABCO Manufacturing’s unique business 
partners a non-profit organization with the 
business community. HABCO Manufacturing 
has been named South Florida’s ‘‘Manufacturer 
of the Year’’ and has received numerous 
accreditations in aviation and aerospace. It is 
also an integral part of the Habilitation Center 
for the Handicapped, Inc. Founded in 1978, 
the Center provides vocational training to 
adults with developmental disabilities and 
other special needs. The Center’s mission is 
to equip these men and women with the 
knowledge, skills, and behaviors needed to 
lead useful and productive lives with dignity, 
respect, and independence. 

For this National Manufacturing Day 2015, I 
recognize the achievements of the Habilitation 
Center and HABCO Manufacturing and its 
men and women with special needs. Their expertise 
in manufacturing, quality, education, 
and training is truly extraordinary. I am proud 
to honor them in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, 
and express appreciation for the community 
engagement. 

f 

JESSE H. JONES PARK—A 
CHAMPION OF LOCAL HISTORY 

HON. TED POE 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, in this digital 
age it is becoming more challenging to ensure 
our children have a strong connection to 

history, community and the great outdoors. 
Well, the Jesse H. Jones Park and Nature 
Center right in the heart of Harris County provides 
the kids and families of my district exactly 
that. 

For the past three decades the park has 
been a place where the local community can 
gather and form important bonds of citizenship. 
But the space also serves an educational 
purpose. Home to the Akokisa Indian Village 
and Redbud Hill Homestead, the park preserves 
elements of life in Native American and 
pioneer communities, including demonstrations 
of traditional customs and crafts. 

It also provides an important green space, 
with a wide range of local flora and fauna including 
ancient bogs, white sand beaches and 
wildflower meadows, in addition to play equipment, 
hiking trails, and sports and recreation 
amenities, giving local residents an opportunity 
to escape the trappings of modernity, engage 
with their local heritage, and developing greater 
physical well-being. 

In the month of October alone, the park will 
host boat tours on Spring Creek, a workshop 
for local science teachers, an astronomy 
class, a tree-planting session, Halloween 
events and a settlers’ soap-making demonstration. 


The Jesse H. Jones Park and Nature Center 
brings out the best in one of America’s 
best communities. The park has a dedicated 
team of staff and volunteers that exemplify the 
charitable and community-minded spirit Texas 
is famous for. 

Harris County Commissioner Jack Cagle 
and his staff should be commended for their 
leadership in the community. The nature center 
will be long valued and maintained as a resource 
of cultural and environmental heritage. 

f 

ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE 

HON. ELIZABETH H. ESTY 

OF CONNECTICUT 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Ms. ESTY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to salute 
the Anti-Defamation League and the tireless 
work of the ADL’s Connecticut Regional 
Office. Now more than ever, the world needs 
the bravery of League members and allies to 
confront anti-Semitism and defend the civil 
rights and humanity of all people. 

Tonight I will have the privilege of joining 
friends and neighbors from across Connecticut 
at the Greater Hartford Torch of Liberty Award 
Reception. Created to recognize those who 
epitomize the Anti-Defamation League’s values 
and commitment to community and public 
service, this year’s Torch of Liberty Award 
honorees include our esteemed Lieutenant 
Governor, the Honorable Nancy Wyman, Mr. 
John J. Patrick, Jr., and Ms. JoAnn H. Price. 

The timing could not be more appropriate. 
Their examples of selfless service are welcome 
reminders of the need for this House to 
eschew the dysfunction of rigid ideologies and 
selfish partisanship. The occasion is also a 
timely reminder of the broader importance of 
the values which this year’s award winners 
embody. 

Founded in 1913, the Anti-Defamation 
League’s stated mission was ‘‘to stop the defamation 
of the Jewish people and to secure 
justice and fair treatment to all.’’ From that admirable 
spirit its members have fashioned a 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1411 

legacy of confronting all forms of bigotry, educating 
our youth in order to guard against ignorance, 
and defending the ideals and civil 
rights that are necessary for people to live in 
a peaceful, just, and democratic society. 

Recent and troubling world events now pose 
a unique and humbling challenge to this 
cause. We’ve witnessed a rise in anti-Semitic 
passions abroad, as in areas throughout Europe, 
but also sadly at home. Even this House 
has demonstrated in recent debates that honest 
and heart-felt differences of opinion can 
escalate into divisive arguments marked by 
coded language and insinuations that teach us 
to fear and dehumanize one another. We are 
better than that. If we engage one another respectfully, 
no disagreement need devolve into 
questioning our shared devotion to our allies. 
We can come to different decisions while still 
uniting in our support for Israel and against efforts 
to impugn the loyalty of fellow citizens 
with whom we may occasionally disagree. 

I therefore urge this House to accept responsibility 
for leading by example. Let us reject 
the temptation to reinforce our divisions. 
Instead, let us bind ourselves together with 
appreciation for our differences and a commitment 
to defend the dignity and worth of every 
human being. I urge this House to undertake 
the work of protecting and expanding the civil, 
religious, and human rights that are the best 
evidence that America remains the home of 
the brave and land of the free. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO ED LITTLER, JR. 

HON. DAVID YOUNG 

OF IOWA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. YOUNG of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor Mr. Ed Littler, Jr. of Adair, 
Iowa. Ed has been awarded the very first Ed 
Littler Achievement Award from Adair-Casey 
Schools. The school has established the 
award to be presented to anyone who has 
contributed to the A-C Bomber family with 
large amounts of their personal time and hard 
work. 

Ed has covered the local sports scene for 
the Adair News since 1948 and rarely missed 
a home or away football game until his retirement 
this year. He was cited for his contributions 
to all Adair-Casey sports and to the community. 
Ed played football as a quarterback for 
the Adair High School Rockets and graduated 
from Adair High School in 1947. 

Mr. Speaker, I applaud and congratulate Ed 
for receiving this award and for dedicating his 
time and efforts in supporting the Adair-Casey 
Schools. I am proud to represent him and his 
family in the United States Congress. I know 
that my colleagues in the United States House 
of Representatives will join me in congratulating 
Ed on this outstanding achievement. 

f 

CPB’S AMERICAN GRADUATE 
INITIATIVE 

HON. EARL BLUMENAUER 

OF OREGON 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, our public 
media stations are a force for positive change 
in communities all across this country. 

The best example of this is the American 
Graduate initiative. 

This initiative, made possible by the Corporation 
for Public Broadcasting which 
leverages public media to address America’s 
high school dropout crisis; 

And set an ambitious goal of seeing a 90 
percent high school graduation rate by 2020. 

This Saturday, October 3rd marks the fourth 
annual American Graduate Day, a live public 
media event broadcast on public media stations 
across the country. 

And make no mistake—it is a crisis. 

Each year, over one million students drop 
out of our high schools. 

In turning the tide, the American Graduate 
initiative has been, and continues to be, a 
proven force for change. 

Local stations extend the reach of this national 
broadcast content and have produced 
almost 1,000 hours of locally-focused programming. 


Find a moment to tune in and see for yourself 
the incredible work happening in your 
community thanks to public media. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. GREGORY W. MEEKS 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, yesterday, on 
September 30, 2015, due to unforeseen circumstances, 
I was unable to vote for Roll Call 
votes 525 through 528. I would have voted in 
the following way: 

Roll Call Number 525 on providing for consideration 
of H. Con. Res. 79, directing the 
Clerk of the House of Representatives to 
make corrections in the enrollment of H.R. 
719; and providing for consideration of the 
Senate amendment to the House amendment 
to the Senate amendment to H.R. 719, TSA 
Office of Inspection Accountability Act of 2015, 
nay; 

On Roll Call Number 526 on the motion to 
suspend the rules and pass S. 2082 to amend 
title 38, United States Code, to extend certain 
expiring provisions of law administered by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
purposes, yea; 

On Roll Call Number 527 on agreeing to the 
resolution, H. Con. Res. 79, directing the Clerk 
of the House of Representatives to make corrections 
in the enrollment of H.R. 719, nay; 

And on Roll Call Number 528 on concurring 
in the Senate Amendment to the House 
Amendment to the Senate Amendment for 

H.R. 719, the TSA Office of Inspection Accountability 
Act of 2015, yea. 
f 

HONORING MR. TERRANCE KELLY 

HON. BARBARA LEE 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor 
Mr. Terrance Kelly for his extraordinary contributions 
to the music industry and to the faith 
community. Mr. Kelly is currently the Artistic 
Director of the Oakland Interfaith Gospel 
Choir, where he leads over 100 rehearsals 
and 50 performances annually. 

Mr. Kelly graduated from the Texas Southern 
University with a Bachelor of Arts in Business 
Management. He went on to study at 
Holy Names University with a focus on Vocal 
Performance. Mr. Kelly began his career working 
with Jazz Camp West as Choir Director 
and Voice Teacher. 

During his time with Jazz Camp West, Mr. 
Kelly led the popular All Camp Gospel Choir, 
helping select the songs, instruct the band, 
and lead performances. His dedication to 
music also led Mr. Kelly to begin working with 
Imani Community Church, where he is currently 
Minister of Magnification. Mr. Kelly coordinates 
all musical presentations for the 
church, as well as leading many different 
choirs. He also facilitates the Imani Ya 
Watume liturgical dancers. 

Additionally, Mr. Kelly serves as Artistic Director 
of the Oakland Interfaith Gospel Choir. 
He has composed and arranged music for the 
Oakland Interfaith Gospel Choir, the Oakland 
Interfaith Youth Choir, and the Oakland Interfaith 
Community Choir. The incredible works 
of music he has worked on have inspired and 
moved audiences throughout the Bay Area, 
California, and the world. 

In his long career in music and faith, Mr. 
Kelly received many honors. Most recently, 
Mr. Kelly taught workshops about gospel 
music at the International Gospel Music Academy 
of Denmark. His musical talent has been 
recognized by many influential people, such 
as Tramaine Hawkins, MC Hammer, John Lee 
Hooker, and Former President Jimmy Carter. 
He has received an Emmy Award for his choral 
arrangement of PSA for KGO-TV, as well 
as 2 Gospel Academy Awards for Outstanding 
Director of the Year and Excellence in Choral 
Music. The San Francisco Opera had the opportunity 
to work with Mr. Kelly in their rendition 
of Moby Dick in 2012. 

Mr. Kelly has also mentored students of 
music, many of whom have gone on to attend 
schools such as the Berklee School of Music, 
Howard University, and Walt Disney’s California 
Institute of the Arts. Throughout his prolific 
career, Mr. Kelly has impacted the lives of 
musicians and fans alike, throughout the Bay 
Area and the world. 

On behalf of the residents of California’s 
13th Congressional District, Mr. Terrance 
Kelly, I salute you. I thank you for a lifetime of 
service and congratulate you on your many 
achievements. I wish you success as you continue 
to serve the residents of the East Bay. 

f 

IN HONOR OF COMMISSIONER 

JACKSON ‘‘JACK’’ ANDERSON 

STONE, SR. 

HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR. 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, it is 
with a heavy heart and solemn remembrance 
that I rise today to pay tribute to an outstanding 
public servant and civic leader of 
Georgia, Commissioner Jackson ‘‘Jack’’ Anderson 
Stone, Sr., longtime County Commissioner 
of District 6 in Dougherty County, Georgia. 
Sadly, Commissioner Stone passed away 
on Thursday, September 24, 2015. A funeral 
service was held on Saturday, September 26, 
2015 at 11:00 am at Sunnyside Baptist 
Church in Albany, Georgia. 


E1412 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks October 1, 2015 

A Georgia man through and through, Jackson 
Stone was born in Meigs, Georgia in 1941 
to the late Grady and Neda West Stone. He 
proudly served our nation in the United States 
Army, serving one tour in Okinawa, Japan. 
When Jack returned to the United States, he 
built a career in the auto sales business and 
became Co-Owner and General Manager at 
Albany Lincoln Mercury. He subsequently 
founded his own businesses: Quick Auto 
Sales, Creekside Auto Sales and Creekside 
RV and Mobile Home Park. 

For Jack Stone, family and community took 
the utmost priority in his life. With this in mind, 
he sought to improve his community and 
serve his fellow citizens as District 6 County 
Commissioner in Dougherty County, Georgia. 
His leadership and work ethic were widely respected, 
resulting in his serving as County 
Commissioner for twenty-eight years. His long 
tenure makes it clear that Commissioner 
Stone was admired and loved by his constituents 
and countless others in Southwest Georgia. 


In addition to his civic duties, Commissioner 
Stone also served as a member of the Albany 
Chamber of Commerce and several other public 
service organizations in Albany and Dougherty 
County. 

In his spare time, Commissioner Stone and 
his family enjoyed RV camping. He also took 
great pleasure in managing his farm, tending 
his cows and riding around with his dog, B.J. 

Commissioner Stone has achieved much in 
his life but none of this would have been possible 
without the love and support of his wife 
of 52 years, Charlotte; his children, Jack, Blair, 
and Karen; his grandchildren, Ande, Lexie, 
Reverend Matthew, Taylor, Mark, Hannah, 
McKenzie, Shannon, and Josh; four great-
grandchildren, Savanna, Lucus, Carson, and 
Brock; and a host of other family members 
and friends. 

Mr. Speaker, my wife Vivian and I, along 
with the more than 730,000 residents of the 
Second Congressional District of Georgia, salute 
Commissioner Stone for his exceptional 
public service and everlasting commitment to 
his community. I ask my colleagues in the 
House of Representatives to join us in extending 
our deepest condolences to Commissioner 
Stone’s family and friends during this difficult 
time. We pray that they will be consoled and 
comforted by an abiding faith and the Holy 
Spirit in the days, weeks and months ahead. 

f 

CODE OF ETHICS FOR THE 
AMVETS NATIONAL SERVICE 
FOUNDATION’S ATTORNEYS IN 
FACT 

HON. GUS M. BILIRAKIS 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I submit the 
following code of ethics for AMVET’s Attor-
neys-in-Fact. AMVET is one of America’s 
leading veterans’ service organizations with 
over 250,000 members with a proud history of 
assisting veterans. 

An attorney in fact is a person who is authorized 
to perform business-related transactions 
on behalf of someone else (the client), 
but not necessarily authorized to practice law. 
In order to become someone’s attorney in fact, 

a person must have the client sign a power of 
attorney document (VA Form 21–22). 

RULES OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 

Rule 1: All AMVETS attorneys in fact will be 
honest when dealing with veterans and surviving 
family members. They will do the same 
when dealing with Department of Veterans’ Affairs 
(VA) employees and other officials. 

Rule: 2 AMVETS attorneys in fact will submit 
quality claim packages for issues that may 
be granted; not sheer quantity to swell report 
numbers. 

Rule 3: The attorney in fact claimant relationship 
is confidential by law and VA regulation. 
It will be protected at all times. The mandate 
to protect privileged information continues 
forever and applies equally to any clerical staff 
assigned to the office. 

Rule 4: The attorney in fact will pursue a 
course of continuing education. They must 
stay current with new laws, regulations, VA’s 
policies and procedures as well as all 
AMVETS policies and procedures promulgated 
by the AMVETS national service director. 

Rule 5: The attorney in fact will determine 
all issues that occurred in-service. This is 
done through discussions with the client and a 
review of their supporting documents and 
records. 

Rule 6: The attorney in fact will not sign off 
on any rating decisions that do not fully address, 
or defer for additional development, all 
issues contained in the claim. 

Rule 7: Hardship claims will be expedited 
and closely monitored by the AMVETS attorney 
in fact to ensure a rapid decision and release 
of compensation and other benefits 
needed by the client. 

Rule 8: AMVETS’ attorney in fact will participate 
in all VA staff/veteran service organization 
(VSO) meetings called by the VA if available. 
Additionally, they will request staff meetings 
if problems arise due to VA’s internal policy 
and procedures that need to be addressed. 

Rule 9: AMVETS’ attorney in fact will ensure 
VA examinations are complete, accurate and 
meet the current guidelines necessary for accurate 
rating decisions. Anything less than a 
complete examination may result in the client 
being denied benefits that are deserved under 
the current law. 

Rule 10: It is not ethical for an attorney in 
fact to ask veterans to change their power of 
attorney (POA) from one VSO to another. Veterans 
represented by another organization 
should be referred to the organization that currently 
holds the power of attorney. However, if 
a veteran has a valid claim and insists on 
AMVETS’ representation, then the POA may 
be accepted. 

Rule 11: It is highly unprofessional to make 
any derogatory comments about another VSO. 

Rule 12: AMVETS attorney in fact will establish 
rapport to educate and advise the client 
in the basics of VA law, policies procedures 
so they understand what documentation 
is required for their claim. 

Rule 13: AMVETS will file an appeal only if 
the reason to appeal is based in fact (evidence 
contained in the client’s record) or law 
(VA’s failure to grant the benefit requested violates 
provisions contained in 38 Code of Federal 
Regulations). If a client wishes to file an 
appeal that the VA may never grant under the 
current law, then the AMVETS attorney in fact 
will not represent the claim since it has no 
merit. 

Rule 14: Appeals should only be used as 
the last resort since they are a three to five 

year process. Other avenues such as a request 
for reconsideration based on overlooked 
evidence of record or new and material evidence 
should be used first. 

Rule 15: An AMVETS attorney in fact will 
not tell a client that they may not file an appeal. 
However, they will explain to a client, 
based on current law, what they must do in 
order to win an appeal. If the client is unable 
to provide the necessary records then 
AMVETS will not represent that claim as an 
appeal. 

Rule 16: Under no circumstances will an 
AMVETS’ attorney in fact solicit or accept any 
monetary gifts, goods or products in appreciation 
or compensation for their professional 
services. 

Rule 17: AMVETS attorney in fact will never 
present a membership application to a veteran 
during the initial claim process. Doing so is 
akin to extortion. However, if a client requests 
a membership application, then they will be 
provided with one after they explain that membership 
is not required for their services. 

f 

60-YEAR CLASS REUNION OF THE 

1955 CLASS OF PAUL LAURENCE 

DUNBAR HIGH SCHOOL 

HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON 

OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
ask the House of Representatives to join me 
in celebrating the class of 1955 of Paul Laurence 
Dunbar Senior High School in the District 
of Columbia as it celebrates its 60-year 
class reunion Saturday, October 3, 2015, its 
reunion committee and particularly Donald R. 
Wines for his phenomenal leadership with the 
Dunbar Alumni Federation, and Dunbar High 
School itself in history and today. I am fortunate 
to be an alumna of Dunbar High School 
and a member of this distinguished class. 

Dunbar High School, which started in a 
church basement, was the first public high 
school for African Americans in the United 
States and remained segregated until 1954, 
when the District of Columbia was one of the 
six Brown v. Board of Education jurisdictions 
that successfully challenged segregated 
schools in the United States. Dunbar was instrumental 
in making the District of Columbia 
a bulwark of education for almost a century, 
attracting students from across the District, 
who were drawn by the school’s excellent reputation. 
That same reputation was reinforced 
by Dunbar’s remarkable record of graduating 
more distinguished African Americans than 
any high school in the country. Among them 
were Edward Brooke, the first Black popularly 
elected United States Senator; Robert C. 
Weaver, the first Black Cabinet member; Benjamin 
O. Davis Sr., the first Black general in 
the U.S. Army; Wesley Brown, the first Black 
graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy; Charles 

R. Drew, the discoverer of blood plasma; and 
Mary Jane Patterson, the first African American 
to achieve a college degree. Dunbar also 
drew teachers with advanced degrees who 
would have been college professors but for 
segregation in higher education that persisted 
at the time. 

October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1413 

The 60-year Dunbar High School class reunion 
is another occasion for pride in Dunbar 
High School today and in the class of 1955. 
Dunbar has been recently rebuilt into a state-
of-the-art facility and became a neighborhood 
school following the Brown decision. Its storied 
history continues to inspire generations of students. 


The class of 1955 graduated the year following 
the historic Brown decision and has 
come together at important intervals to celebrate 
its class, the education received at Dunbar, 
and the school today. Keeping the class 
together did not take place spontaneously. 
This work has been a commendable team effort, 
but that team recognizes that the leadership 
of Donald R. Wines has been indispensable 
to its success. Donald has discouraged 
all acknowledgment of his extraordinary leadership 
on behalf of Dunbar and the class of 
1955. However, the House of Representatives 
is free to commend and thank Donald for focusing 
his many talents, his organizational expertise, 
and the skills he honed as a Dunbar 
student to the class of 1955 Dunbar High 
School and the historic Dunbar tradition. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask the House of Representatives 
to join me in celebrating the 60-year 
class reunion of the 1955 class of Paul Laurence 
Dunbar High School and the Dunbar 
High School Reunion Committee and Dunbar 
High School itself. I ask the House to particularly 
commend the leadership of Donald R. 
Wines, whose indefatigable energy and wise 
guidance have been the essential ingredients 
to the consistency of efforts that have enabled 
the Dunbar class of 1955 to celebrate 60 
years of continuing friendship. 

f 

HONORING THE LIFE OF EDNA 
AND JOHN W. MOSLEY 

HON. MAXINE WATERS 

OF CALIFORNIA 
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. Mr. 
Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy 
of Edna and John W. Mosley, on the occasion 
of the grand opening of the school 
named in their honor in Aurora, Colorado. 

Both Edna and John Mosley were trailblazers 
and public servants. 

Lieutenant Colonel John Mosley graduated 
from Colorado State A&M College, where he 
participated in the Civilian Pilot Training Program 
during his senior year. In 1943, he completed 
the program, but was still denied the 
right to serve his country as a pilot due to his 
race. But John was not discouraged. 

John and his family wrote letters to Congress 
and even the White House to petition for 
placement in the Tuskegee Airmen Pilot program, 
and due to his persistence and determination, 
he was finally accepted as a 
Tuskegee Airman. His accomplished military 
career spanned World War II, the Korean War, 
and the Vietnam War. 

After retiring from the Air Force, John 
served our country at the Department of 
Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) in 
Washington, D.C., where one of his most important 
responsibilities was overseeing the 
newly formed Head Start Program in 1970. 

John received numerous awards, among 
them, the Congressional Medal of Honor in 
2007 for his service as a Tuskegee Airman. 

Edna Mosley was a lifetime member of the 
NAACP, and worked to establish the organization’s 
chapter in Denver. She served 12 years 
on the Aurora city council, becoming the first 
African American elected to the council in 
1991. On the council, she championed important 
and pressing issues—civil rights, gender 
equality, veteran’s interests, affordable housing, 
and educational opportunity. 

Mr. Speaker, Edna and John Mosley embody 
what truly makes our country and communities 
great—a selfless commitment to our 
neighbors, and fighting for the common good. 
I extend my best wishes for the academic success 
of the future graduates of the school, and 
their commitment to carrying forward the 
amazing legacy of Edna and John Mosley. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO THE HONORABLE 
JOHN M. MCHUGH 

HON. JOHN R. CARTER 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on behalf 
of myself, Congressman RUPPERSBERGER, 
and the House Army Caucus, I rise today to 
pay tribute to the Honorable John M. McHugh, 
former Member of the House, colleague, and 
friend, on the eve of his departure as one of 
the longest serving Secretaries of the Army in 

U.S. history. 
After over 42 years of public service, Secretary 
McHugh leaves our Army and our Nation 
safer and more secure. His tireless advocacy 
and bold leadership for our Soldiers, Civilians, 
and their Family Members is legendary. 
From improvements in family and 
mental health programs to unprecedented 
strides to combat sexual assault and suicide, 
John has truly earned the reputation as ‘‘The 
Soldier’s Secretary.’’ 

Having served as the House Armed Services 
Committee Ranking Member, Congressman 
McHugh’s thoughtful, determined, and visionary 
leadership ensured the security of our 
Nation. As a Representative from New York’s 
24th and later the 23rd Districts, John ensured 
that cutting-edge facilities, upgrades, and programs 
directly supported our Warfighters. Fort 
Drum is but one example; it is truly the 
‘‘House that McHugh Built.’’ He ensured the 
10th Mountain Division had all the tools required 
to be at the tip of the spear for our Nation’s 
defense. 

John made unprecedented strides as the 
Co-Chair of the Army Caucus for over 15 
years and served as a critical member of the 
West Point Board of Visitors. He was a dynamic 
leader in this House, a trusted Representative 
of his constituents, and an amazing 
advocate for our Soldiers and our country’s 
national security. 

During his tenure as the second-longest 
serving Secretary in history, John was at the 
forefront of national and international strategy, 
military policy, and Soldier programs. His expert 
leadership, bold initiatives, and pragmatic 
management ensured that our Army remained 
the finest fighting force the world has ever 
known. 

John presided over some of the toughest 
missions the Army has ever faced. He 
oversaw the largest retrograde in military history 
as our troops departed Iraq, held the 
Army together as it was hit by sequestration, 
and worked tirelessly to reorganize, revamp, 
and restructure our force. Secretary McHugh 
led these efforts with distinction as our Soldiers 
conducted simultaneous combat operations 
around the world. 

Secretary McHugh’s determination, devotion, 
and love of our Service Members also 
ensured that our most sacred and hallowed 
ground, Arlington National Cemetery, overcame 
years of neglect to become the epitome 
of a well-run and well-led resting place for our 
Nation’s heroes. In fact, it is now the gold 
standard for cemetery administration because 
of his personal and unwavering commitment 
and leadership. 

Mr. Speaker, our Nation is safe and secure 
because of the drive, determination, and leadership 
of Secretary John M. McHugh. Today, 
we join with all Americans in our profound admiration 
and deep respect for this true Patriot. 
We thank Secretary McHugh for his dedication 
and sacrifice and wish him the fullest measure 
of peace and happiness as he enters the next 
phase of his life. 


Thursday, October 1, 2015 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 
See Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S7055–S7107. 

Measures Introduced: Fourteen bills and four resolutions 
were introduced, as follows: S. 2114–2127, 
and S. Res. 273–276. Pages S7102–03 

Measures Reported: 

S. 750, to achieve border security on certain Federal 
lands along the Southern border, with an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept. 
No. 114–150) 
S. 991, to establish the Commission on Evidence-
Based Policymaking, with an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 114–151) 
S. 481, to amend the Controlled Substances Act 
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with 
respect to drug scheduling recommendations by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, and with 
respect to registration of manufacturers and distributors 
seeking to conduct clinical testing, with an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute. 
S. 799, to combat the rise of prenatal opioid abuse 
and neonatal abstinence syndrome, with an amendment 
in the nature of a substitute. 
S. 1893, to reauthorize and improve programs related 
to mental health and substance use disorders, 
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute. 
Page S7101 

Measures Passed: 

Border Jobs for Veterans Act: Senate passed H.R. 
2835, to actively recruit members of the Armed 
Forces who are separating from military service to 
serve as Customs and Border Protection officers. 

Pages S7065–67 

Protecting Affordable Coverage for Employees 
Act: Senate passed H.R. 1624, to amend title I of 
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and 
title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act to revise 
the definition of small employer. Page S7084 

National Character Counts Week: Senate agreed 
to S. Res. 276, designating the week beginning October 
18, 2015, as ‘‘National Character Counts 
Week’’. Page S7107 

Measures Considered: 
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act: Senate continued 
consideration of the motion to proceed to 
consideration of H.R. 2029, making appropriations 
for military construction, the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2016. Pages S7062–65, S7067–75 

During consideration of this measure today, Senate 
also took the following action: 

By 50 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. 273), three-fifths 
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having 
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion 
to close further debate on the motion to proceed to 
consideration of the bill. Page S7074 

Conference Reports: 
National Defense Authorization Act—Cloture: 

Senate began consideration of the conference report 
to accompany H.R. 1735, to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2016 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for 
such fiscal year. Pages S7075–84, S7084–90 

A motion was entered to close further debate on 
the conference report to accompany the bill, and, in 
accordance with the provisions of rule XXII of the 
Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on cloture will 
occur on Tuesday, October 6, 2015. Page S7075 

Messages from the President: Senate received the 
following messages from the President of the United 
States: 

Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to 
the designation of funding for Overseas Contingency 
Operations/Global War on Terrorism, received during 
adjournment of the Senate on September 30, 

D1042 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1043 

2015; which was referred to the Committee on the 
Budget. (PM–26) Page S7098 

Transmitting, pursuant to law, the notification of 
the President’s designation of an emergency requirement 
in emergency funding for urgent wildland fire 
suppression activities, received during adjournment 
of the Senate on September 30, 2015; which was referred 
to the Committee on the Budget. (PM–27) 

Page S7098 

Drozd Nomination—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent-time agreement was reached providing that 
at 5 p.m., on Monday, October 5, 2015, Senate 
begin consideration of the nomination of Dale A. 
Drozd, to be United States District Judge for the 
Eastern District of California; that there be 30 minutes 
for debate on the nomination, equally divided 
in the usual form; and that upon the use or yielding 
back of time, Senate vote, without intervening action 
or debate, on confirmation of the nomination. 

Page S7107 
Messages from the House: Page S7099 
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S7099 
Executive Communications: Pages S7099–7101 

Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S7101–02 

Additional Cosponsors: Page S7103 

Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions: 

Pages S7103–06 

Additional Statements: Pages S7096–98 

Authorities for Committees to Meet: 

Pages S7106–07 

Privileges of the Floor: Page S7107 

Record Votes: One record vote was taken today. 
(Total—273) Page S7074 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and 
adjourned at 5:54 p.m., until 4 p.m. on Monday, 
October 5, 2015. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks 
of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on 
page S7107.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

GERALD R. FORD-CLASS AIRCRAFT 
CARRIER PROGRAM 

Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a 
hearing to examine the procurement, acquisition, 
testing, and oversight of the Navy’s Gerald R. Ford-
class aircraft carrier program, after receiving testimony 
from Sean J. Stackley, Assistant Secretary, Research, 
Development & Acquisition, Rear Admiral 
Donald E. Gaddis, USN, Program Executive Officer, 

Tactical Aircraft, and Rear Admiral Thomas J. 
Moore, USN, Program Executive Officer, Aircraft 
Carriers, all of the Department of the Navy, Katrina 

G. McFarland, Assistant Secretary for Acquisition, 
Rear Admiral Michael C. Manazir, USN, Director, 
Air Warfare (OPNAV), and J. Michael Gilmore, Director 
of Operational Test and Evaluation, all of the 
Department of Defense; and Paul L. Francis, Managing 
Director of Acquisition and Sourcing Management, 
Government Accountability Office. 
BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: 

Committee ordered favorably reported an original 
bill entitled, ‘‘American Crude Oil Export Equality 
Act’’. 

NATURAL RESOURCES LEGISLATION 

Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Subcommittee 
on Public Lands, Forests, and Mining 
concluded a hearing to examine S. 2031, to reduce 
temporarily the royalty required to be paid for sodium 
produced on Federal lands, after receiving testimony 
from Amanda Leiter, Deputy Assistant Secretary 
of the Interior, Land and Minerals Management; 
Christopher B. Douville, American Natural 
Soda Ash Corporation, Westport, Connecticut; Rick 
Finn, Port of Portland, Portland, Oregon; and Fred 
von Ahrens, Tronox Alkali, Green River, Wyoming. 

IMPROPER PAYMENTS IN FEDERAL 
PROGRAMS 

Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing 
to examine improper payments in Federal programs, 
after receiving testimony from Gene L. Dodaro, 
Comptroller General of the United States, Government 
Accountability Office. 

BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee ordered favorably 
reported the nominations of Scott Allen, of 
Maryland, to be United States Director of the European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
Ann Calvaresi Barr, of Maryland, to be Inspector 
General, United States Agency for International Development, 
and Barbara Lee, of California, and Christopher 
H. Smith, of New Jersey, both to be a Representative 
of the United States of America to the 
Seventieth Session of the General Assembly of the 
United Nations, Carolyn Patricia Alsup, of Florida, 
to be Ambassador to the Republic of The Gambia, 
John L. Estrada, of Florida, to be Ambassador to the 
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, David R. 
Gilmour, of Texas, to be Ambassador to the Togolese 
Republic, Jeffrey J. Hawkins, Jr., of California, 
to be Ambassador to the Central African Republic, 
Edwin Richard Nolan, Jr., of Massachusetts, to be 


D1044 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST October 1, 2015 

Ambassador to the Republic of Suriname, David 
Malcolm Robinson, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant 
Secretary of State (Conflict and Stabilization Operations), 
and to be Coordinator for Reconstruction 
and Stabilization, Daniel H. Rubinstein, of Virginia, 
to be Ambassador to the Republic of Tunisia, Lucy 
Tamlyn, of New York, to be Ambassador to the Republic 
of Benin, Susan Coppedge Amato, of Georgia, 
to be Director of the Office to Monitor and Combat 
Trafficking, with the rank of Ambassador at Large, 
and lists in the Foreign Service, all of the Department 
of State. 

CIVIL NUCLEAR AGREEMENT WITH SOUTH 
KOREA 

Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded 
a hearing to examine the civil nuclear agreement 
with the Republic of South Korea, after receiving 
testimony from Thomas M. Countryman, Assistant 
Secretary of State. 

NOMINATIONS 

Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded 
a hearing to examine the nominations of Robert Porter 
Jackson, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to the 
Republic of Ghana, Harry K. Thomas, Jr., of New 
York, to be Ambassador to the Republic of 
Zimbabwe, Julie Furuta-Toy, of Wyoming, to be 
Ambassador to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, 
and Dennis B. Hankins, of Minnesota, to be Ambassador 
to the Republic of Guinea, all of the Department 
of State, and Linda I. Etim, of Wisconsin, to 
be an Assistant Administrator of the United States 
Agency for International Development, after the 
nominees testified and answered questions in their 
own behalf. 

HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 

Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: 

Committee concluded a hearing to examine achieving 
the promise of health information technology, 
after receiving testimony from Karen B. DeSalvo, 
National Coordinator, Office of the National Coordinator 
for Health Information Technology, and Pat


rick Conway, Acting Principal Deputy Administrator, 
Deputy Administrator for Innovation and 
Quality, and Chief Medical Officer, Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services, both of the Department 
of Health and Human Services. 

REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT PROGRAM 
OVERSIGHT 

Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Immigration 
and the National Interest concluded an oversight 
hearing to examine the Administration’s Fiscal 
Year 2016 refugee resettlement program, including 
fiscal and security implications, after receiving testimony 
from Lawrence Bartlett, Director, Office of 
Refugee Admissions, Bureau of Population, Refugees, 
and Migration, Department of State; Barbara L. 
Strack, Chief, Refugee Affairs Division, Refugee, 
Asylum, and International Operations Directorate, 
and Matthew D. Emrich, Acting Associate Director, 
Fraud Detection and National Security Directorate, 
both of Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department 
of Homeland Security; and Robert Carey, 
Director, Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration 
for Children and Families, Department of 
Health and Human Services. 

GOLD KING MINE WASTE WATER SPILL 

Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Committee 
concluded a hearing to examine the significant 
costs and related burdens for small businesses 
resulting from the Gold King Mine waste water spill 
near Silverton, Colorado, after receiving testimony 
from Representative Tipton; Bradford P. Blake, La 
Plata County Commissioner, and Andrew Corra, 
4Corners Riversports, both of Durango, Colorado; 
and DeAnne Gallegos, Chamber of Commerce, 
Silverton, Colorado. 

INTELLIGENCE 

Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed 
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony 
from officials of the intelligence community. 

Committee recessed subject to the call. 

h 

House of Representatives 

Additional Cosponsors: Pages H6789–90

Chamber Action 

Reports Filed:

Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 21 pub-

Reports were filed today as follows:

lic bills, H.R. 3660–3680; 10 resolutions, H. Con. 

Supplemental Report on H.R. 702, to adapt to

Res. 81–84; and H. Res. 454–459, were introduced. 

changing crude oil market conditions (H. Rept.

Pages H6787–88 

114–267, Part 2); 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1045 

H.R. 538, to facilitate the development of energy 
on Indian lands by reducing Federal regulations that 
impede tribal development of Indian lands, and for 
other purposes (H. Rept. 114–276); 
H.R. 1644, to amend the Surface Mining Control 
and Reclamation Act of 1977 to ensure transparency 
in the development of environmental regulations, 
and for other purposes, with an amendment (H. 
Rept. 114–277); and 
H.R. 3192, to provide for a temporary safe harbor 
from the enforcement of integrated disclosure requirements 
for mortgage loan transactions under the 
Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 and 
the Truth in Lending Act, and for other purposes 
(H. Rept. 114–278). Pages H6786–87 
Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act: 

The House passed H.R. 3457, to prohibit the lifting 
of sanctions on Iran until the Government of Iran 
pays the judgments against it for acts of terrorism, 
by a yea-and-nay vote of 251 yeas to 173 nays, Roll 
No. 533. Pages H6761–68, H6778–79 

Pursuant to the Rule, the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute printed in H. Rept. 114–273 
shall be considered as adopted. Page H6761 

H. Res. 449, the rule providing for consideration of 
the bill (H.R. 3457) and providing for consideration of 
the conference report to accompany the bill (H.R. 1735), 
was agreed to by a recorded vote of 241 ayes to 181 noes, 
Roll No. 530, after the previous question was ordered by 
a yea-and-nay vote of 237 yeas to 180 nays, Roll No. 
529. Pages H6752–61 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016: The House agreed to the conference report 
to accompany the bill (H.R. 1735) to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2016 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, and to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, by a yea-and-nay vote 
of 270 yeas to 156 nays, Roll No. 532. 

Pages H6768–78 

Rejected the Smith (WA) motion to recommit, 
with instructions, the conference report to the committee 
of conference, by a yea-and-nay vote of 186 
yeas to 241 nays, Roll No. 531. Pages H6777–78 

H. Res. 449, the rule providing for consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 3457) and providing for consideration 
of the conference report to accompany the bill 
(H.R. 1735), was agreed to by a recorded vote of 
241 ayes to 181 noes, Roll No. 530, after the previous 
question was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of 
237 yeas to 180 nays, Roll No. 529. Pages H6752–61 
Providing for corrections to the enrollment of 

H.R. 1735: The House agreed by unanimous consent 
to H. Con. Res. 81, providing for corrections to the 
enrollment of the bill H.R. 1735. Page H6779 
Amending the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 
to postpone a scheduled increase in the minimum 
wage applicable to American Samoa: The 
House agreed to take from the Speaker’s table and 
concur in the Senate amendments to H.R. 2617, to 
amend the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 to 
postpone a scheduled increase in the minimum wage 
applicable to American Samoa. Pages H6779–80 

Supplemental Report: Agreed that the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce be authorized to file a 
supplemental report on H.R. 702, to adapt to 
changing crude oil market conditions. Page H6780 

STEM Education Act of 2015: The House agreed 
to take from the Speaker’s table and concur in the 
Senate amendment to H.R. 1020, to define STEM 
education to include computer science, and to support 
existing STEM education programs at the National 
Science Foundation. Page H6780 

Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that 
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet 
at 1 p.m. tomorrow, October 2nd and further, when 
the House adjourns on that day, it adjourn to meet 
at 12 noon on Tuesday, October 6th for Morning 
Hour debate. Page H6781 

Presidential Messages: Read a message from the 
President wherein he designated funding for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism—’’
referred to the Committee on Appropriations 
and ordered to be printed (H. Doc. 114–62). 

Page H6785 

Read a message from the President wherein he 
designated emergency funding for urgent wildland 
fire suppression activities—’’referred to the Committee 
on Appropriations and ordered to be printed 
(H. Doc. 114–63). Page H6785 

Senate Messages: Messages received from the Senate 
today appear on pages H6761, H6784, H6785. 

Senate Referral: S. 2078 was held at the desk. 

Page H6761 

Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes and 
one recorded vote developed during the proceedings 
of today and appear on pages H6759–60, 
H6760–61, H6777–78, H6778, and H6778–79. 
There were no quorum calls. 

Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and adjourned 
at 2:32 p.m. 


D1046 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST October 1, 2015 

Committee Meetings 

IMPROVING PUBLIC SHIPYARDS TO MORE 
EFFECTIVELY MEET NAVY OPERATIONAL 
REQUIREMENTS 

Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readiness 
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Improving Public Shipyards 
to More Effectively Meet Navy Operational 
Requirements’’. Testimony was heard from Rear Admiral 
Mark R. Whitney, U.S. Navy, Deputy Commander, 
Logistics, Maintenance and Industrial Operations, 
Naval Sea Systems Command. 

EXAMINING POTENTIAL WAYS TO 
IMPROVE THE MEDICARE PROGRAM 

Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on 
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Potential 
Ways to Improve the Medicare Program’’. Testimony 
was heard from public witnesses. 

TRANSPORTING NUCLEAR MATERIALS: 
DESIGN, LOGISTICS, AND SHIPMENT 

Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on 
Environment and the Economy held a hearing enti


tled ‘‘Transporting Nuclear Materials: Design, Logistics, 
and Shipment’’. Testimony was heard from 
Franklin Rusco, Director, Natural Resources and Environment, 
Government Accountability Office; and 
public witnesses. 

Joint Meetings 

No joint committee meetings were held. 

f 

COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY, 
OCTOBER 2, 2015 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

No meetings/hearings scheduled. 

House 

No hearings are scheduled. 


October 1, 2015 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1047 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED FOURTEENTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 6 through September 30, 2015 

Senate House Total 
Days in session .................................... 129 119 . . 
Time in session ................................... 823 hrs, 19' 596 hrs, 49' .. 
Congressional Record: 
Pages of proceedings ................... 7,053 6,750 . . 
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 1,400 . . 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 11 40 51 
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . . 
Bills in conference ............................... 2 2 . . 
Measures passed, total ......................... 309 389 698 
Senate bills .................................. 68 21 . . 
House bills .................................. 49 247 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 1 . . 
House joint resolutions ............... 1 3 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 8 5 . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... 17 20 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 165 92 . . 
Measures reported, total ...................... *215 *268 483 
Senate bills .................................. 167 5 . . 
House bills .................................. 22 208 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . . 
House joint resolutions ............... . . 1 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 1 . . . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 3 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 25 51 . . 
Special reports ..................................... 17 5 . . 
Conference reports ............................... 1 2 . . 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 155 53 . . 
Measures introduced, total .................. 2,418 4,260 6,678 
Bills ............................................. 2,104 3,659 . . 
Joint resolutions .......................... 22 68 . . 
Concurrent resolutions ................ 20 80 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 272 453 . . 
Quorum calls ....................................... 6 1 . . 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 272 207 . . 
Recorded votes .................................... . . 320 . . 
Bills vetoed ......................................... 2 . . . . 
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . . 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 149 written reports have been filed in the Senate, 
275 reports have been filed in the House. 
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 6 through September 30, 2015 
Civilian nominations, totaling 316, disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 94 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 215 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 7 

Other Civilian nominations, totaling 3,033, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,000 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 711 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 322 

Air Force nominations, totaling 5,332, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 3,628 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 1,703 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1 

Army nominations, totaling 3,325, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 3,302 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 23 

Navy nominations, totaling 3,873, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 3,867 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 6 

Marine Corps nominations, totaling 1,067, disposed of as follows: 

Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,064 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 3 

Summary 

Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 0 
Total nominations received this Session ................................................ 16,946 
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 13,955 
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 2,661 
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 330 
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0 


D1048 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST October 1, 2015 

Next Meeting of the SENATE 

4 p.m., Monday, October 5 

Senate Chamber 

Program for Monday: After the transaction of any 
morning business (not to extend beyond one hour), Senate 
will begin consideration of the nomination of Dale A. 
Drozd, of California, to be United States District Judge 
for the Eastern District of California, with a vote on confirmation 
thereon, at approximately 5:30 p.m. 

Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
1 p.m., Friday, October 2 

House Chamber 
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma session 
at 1 p.m. 

HOUSE 

Barletta, Lou, Pa., E1402 
Bilirakis, Gus M., Fla., E1412 
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga., E1411 
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E1411 
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E1407, E1408 
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E1403 
Carter, John R., Tex., E1413 
Courtney, Joe, Conn., E1407 
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E1410 
Donovan, Daniel M., Jr, N.Y., E1406 
Emmer, Tom, Minn., E1409, E1410 
Esty, Elizabeth H., Conn., E1410 
Fudge, Marcia L., Ohio, E1402 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

Garrett, Scott, N.J., E1403 Meeks, Gregory W., N.Y., E1411 
Green, Gene, Tex., E1408 Miller, Jeff, Fla., E1405 
Hartzler, Vicky, Mo., E1409 Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia, 

Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E1401, E1409 

E1407, E1412 
Hensarling, Jeb, Tex., E1404 

Pascrell, Bill, Jr., N.J., E1409

Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1401 

Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E1402, E1403, E1404, E1404,

Kildee, Daniel T., Mich., E1406 

E1405, E1406, E1406, E1407, E1408, E1408

Kind, Ron, Wisc., E1405 

Poe, Ted, Tex., E1410

Lance, Leonard, N.J., E1406 

Rice, Kathleen M., N.Y., E1403

Lee, Barbara, Calif., E1411 

Scott, David, Ga., E1403, E1410

Long, Billy, Mo., E1405 
Loudermilk, Barry, Ga., E1404 

Shimkus, John, Ill., E1404 
Lujan Grisham, Michelle, N.M., E1407 Waters, Maxine, Calif., E1413 
Marchant, Kenny, Tex., E1408 Wilson, Joe, S.C., E1409 
McCollum, Betty, Minn., E1407 Young, David, Iowa, E1411 

UNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
Congressional Record 
The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage 
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House 
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are 
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United 

States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when 
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through 
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.fdsys.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the 
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. 
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S. 
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO 
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made 
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following 
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents 
in individual parts or by sets. ¶With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from 
the Congressional Record. 
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received. 


