UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 
(Document certified by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov>) Signed by Superintendent of Documents <pkisupport@gpo.gov> Time: 2019.04.14 10:07:54 -04'00' Reason: GPO attests that this document has not been altered since it was disseminated by GPO Location: US GPO, Washington, DC 20401


United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 114th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 162 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016 No. 172 

House of Representatives 

The House met at 10 a.m. and was 
called to order by the Speaker pro tempore 
(Mr. BOST). 

f 

DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO 
TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Speaker: 

WASHINGTON, DC, 

December 1, 2016. 

I hereby appoint the Honorable MIKE BOST 
to act as Speaker pro tempore on this day. 
PAUL D. RYAN, 

Speaker of the House of Representatives. 

f 

MORNING-HOUR DEBATE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the order of the House of January 
5, 2016, the Chair will now recognize 
Members from lists submitted by 
the majority and minority leaders for 
morning-hour debate. 

The Chair will alternate recognition 
between the parties, with each party 
limited to 1 hour and each Member 
other than the majority and minority 
leaders and the minority whip limited 
to 5 minutes, but in no event shall debate 
continue beyond 11:50 a.m. 

f 

DISCOVERY, DEVELOPMENT, AND 
DELIVERY OF NEW CURES 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5 
minutes. 

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, the House 
passed the 21st Century Cures Act with 
a vote of 392–26. I was proud to support 
the Cures Act that expedites the discovery, 
the development, and the delivery 
of new cures for illnesses and disabling 
conditions where none exist 
today. This legislation also included 
long overdue reforms to our Nation’s 
mental health system. 

Mr. Speaker, the text of the Cures 
Act additionally contains my Special 
Needs Trust Fairness Act language. 
This corrects a civil rights oversight or 
issue for persons living with any disability 
to be allowed to establish their 
own special needs trust. Without this 
legislation, the way the law exists 
today, a person, any person living with 
a label of a disability, is deemed incompetent 
to be able to set up and 
manage their own special needs trust. 
Their parents can do it, their grandparents, 
a court-appointed guardian, 
but they are deemed incompetent. 

I want to thank my colleagues for 
their support, and encourage the Senate 
to take swift action on the Cures 
Act that contains all this language. 

RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF DR. DAVID WRIGHT 

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 
the life of Dr. David Wright, a dedicated 
public servant and community 
leader from Clarion County, Pennsylvania, 
in Pennsylvania’s Fifth Congressional 
District. He was a beloved professor 
and department head at Clarion 
University, where he passionately 
taught for nearly 30 years. 

Dr. Wright also served in the Pennsylvania 
House of Representatives from 
1976 to 1996. His 20-year tenure is the 
longest served in the State house by 
any Representative from Clarion County. 


As a house member, Dr. Wright 
served as chairman on several committees 
and took on various leadership 
roles. He continually advocated for 
rural Pennsylvanians and authored 
language that created the Center for 
Rural Pennsylvania. He also played a 
major role in establishing the State 
System for Higher Education, which 
unified Pennsylvania’s 14 State colleges 
into a comprehensive system. 

Dr. Wright passed away on November 
18, at the age of 80, leaving behind a 
legacy that will continue to benefit 
Pennsylvanians for generations to 

come. My thoughts and prayers are 
with the Wright family. 

RECOGNIZING 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF AMERICAN 
TREE FARM SYSTEM 

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition 
of the 75th anniversary of the 
American Tree Farm System, the largest 
and oldest woodland certification 
system in the Nation. 

The American Tree Farm System 
was founded in 1941 to protect landowners 
across the country and help 
meet the growing demand for forest 
products. In 1954, the Principles of the 
American Tree Farm System created a 
system for tree farm certification, establishing 
a clear outline for proper 
forest management and conservation. 

Today, the American Tree Farm System 
is comprised of more than 70,000 
individuals and families that manage 
more than 20.5 million acres of forest. 
These tree farmers benefit our Nation’s 
forests and our economy, while providing 
timber, homes for wildlife, recreational 
space, and clean water. 

In honor of its legacy, last June I introduced 
H. Con. Res. 144, bipartisan 
legislation celebrating the American 
Tree Farm System and recognizing the 
75th anniversary. 

I congratulate the members of the 
American Tree Farm System on this 
remarkable milestone and applaud 
their work with landowners and foresters 
across the United States. 

f 

TRUMP ADMINISTRATION AND U.S. 
FOREIGN POLICY TOWARD ISRAEL 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Oregon (Mr. BLUMENAUER) for 5 minutes. 


Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, 
day by day we are learning more about 
the future Trump administration, and 
as the picture becomes clearer, usually 
the news is troubling. 

One of the most unsettling indications 
about the Trump administration 

b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 

. 
H7061 


H7062 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

and the Republican Party is the abandonment 
of a half century of bipartisan 
foreign policy regarding Israel and our 
commitment to a two-state solution. 

Israel has no greater friend in the 
world than the United States, but one 
of the ways to demonstrate friendship 
is to be clear when your friends are 
making mistakes. Settlement activity 
by Israel on the West Bank and the renewed 
destruction of Palestinian 
homes and confiscation of property are 
mistakes. The overwhelming majority 
of Israelis still favor a two-state solution, 
they just despair of it being possible. 
The steps the Netanyahu government 
is taking on that path make it 
more remote. 

Donald Trump and the Republican 
Party he dominated at the Republican 
Convention abandoned the two-state 
solution. For the first time in a half 
century, the bipartisan commitment to 
a two-state solution has been stripped 
from the Republican Party platform. 

This matters. 

Donald Trump has empowered two of 
the most extreme voices, who have 
emboldened and defended settlement 
activity and undercut the necessary 
two-state solution, to manage his policy 
advice on Israel. This should be disturbing 
for everyone concerned about 
Middle East peace. 

The world is a complicated and dangerous 
place. There are hints that Donald 
Trump is starting to learn about 
this complexity in fits and starts. Witness 
his statements after visiting with 
President Obama and his walking back 
some of his most extreme and definitive 
campaign promises. 

It is important that the reality in 
the Middle East catches up sooner 
rather than later. A prime example is 
the Iranian nuclear agreement, one of 
the few things that China, Russia, 
Great Britain, France, Germany, and 
the United States all agreed upon. It is 
not perfect, and there are certainly Iranian 
leaders who are dangerous people, 
but this agreement was the best alternative 
and the only thing that all these 
parties could agree upon. 

Now, it is easy to talk on the campaign 
trail about blowing it up; it is 
harder to do in reality when it is actually 
working as it was supposed to and, 
in fact, is supported even by an overwhelming 
majority of American Jewish 
voters. 

We all have responsibility for a 
thoughtful foreign policy, and Democrats 
must stand firm to reject some of 
the reckless proposals from the Trump 
administration; but our Republican 
friends in Congress should not allow a 
half century of bipartisan foreign policy 
to become a casualty of some of the 
most extreme voices of American and 
Israeli politics. 

The time to speak out is now. Everyone 
must find their voice. Failure to 
support a two-state solution and reject 
the misguided settlement efforts which 
would make that solution impossible is 
a prescription for more pain, unrest, 
and violence between Israelis and Pal


estinians. Middle East peace should not 
be a casualty of the American election. 

f 

HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE 

OF FORMER CONGRESSMAN TOM 

LANTOS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Florida (Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN) for 5 minutes. 


Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, 
Congressman Tom Lantos was a giant 
of a man, an inspiration to all of us 
who knew him, and greatly admired by 
his peers. Tom was a patriot, a recipient 
of the Presidential Medal of Freedom 
who championed justice, human 
rights, and human dignity across the 
globe. 

Tom Lantos was a Holocaust survivor, 
the only Holocaust survivor ever 
elected to serve in this esteemed institution. 
Coming to America as a penniless 
immigrant, Tom’s life story is one 
of perseverance and fortitude, yet, a 
kinder, more loving man you would not 
ever find. 

Tom was the embodiment of the 
American Dream, building a wonderful 
life for himself, for his wife, Annette, 
and their two daughters. He made it 
his life’s work to see to it that the horrors 
that he had seen, the horrors that 
he had lived through, would never be 
brought upon others ever again. 

His background as a survivor and a 
Member of Congress gave him a unique 
opportunity to forge an ever stronger 
relationship between the United States 
and our ally, the democratic Jewish 
State of Israel and to guarantee that 
the Jewish people will always have a 
homeland. 

Now Tom’s legacy and his memory 
are being honored on December 19 in 
Netanya, Israel, where a statue will be 
dedicated in his honor. I extend my 
most sincere and heartfelt words of admiration 
to Tom’s family. I congratulate 
them all on this auspicious occasion. 


Tom Lantos was an honorable gentleman, 
Mr. Speaker, and few are more 
deserving of such a great honor. 

HONORING BROTHER KEVIN HANDIBODE, PRESI


DENT OF CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS HIGH 

SCHOOL 

Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to recognize Brother Kevin, 
president of Christopher Columbus 
High School, for his 45 years of service 
to this wonderful institution and for 
his 60th anniversary as a Marist Brother 
this upcoming year. 

Since arriving at Christopher Columbus 
High School in 1966, Brother Kevin 
has been an all-around champion for 
CCHS and its students while serving in 
many capacities, including teacher, 
dean of discipline, athletic director, 
varsity coach for over 18 years, developmental 
director, and principal. 

His legendary reputation has carried 
him through many recognitions and accolades, 
including the respect and admiration 
of his peers, his coworkers, 
and our loving community. In 2008, for 

his distinguished service to the church 
and devotion to the Catholic education 
system, Brother Kevin was bestowed 
the Cross, the highest medal that can 
be awarded by the Pope. 

So, again, Brother Kevin, congratulations 
on this magnificent milestone. As 
the heart and soul of Columbus High 
School, you have been a leader, you 
have been a role model, but, more importantly, 
you have given countless 
students the ability to pursue their 
dreams and reach their full potential. 

Go Explorers. Go Brother Kevin. 

CELEBRATING THE 40TH ANNIVERSARY OF 
HIGHPOINT ACADEMY 

Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, it 
gives me great joy to recognize 
Highpoint Academy, a well-respected 
bilingual private school located in my 
community, on its 40th anniversary. 

Since its founding in 1976, Highpoint 
Academy has provided generations of 
students with an excellent education in 
a positive and nurturing academic environment. 
This prestigious institution 
is a model of academic excellence, 
imagination, innovation, and creative 
thinking. I am proud that, over the 
last 40 years, the gifted educators at 
Highpoint Academy have helped develop 
successful students who have 
gone on to become leaders in our south 
Florida community and, indeed, 
throughout our Nation. 

To Principal Alicia Casanova and the 
whole Highpoint Academy family, congratulations 
on this very special anniversary, 
and thank you for decades of 
outstanding educational contributions 
to our south Florida community. 

WORLD AIDS DAY 

Ms. ROS-LEHTINEN. Mr. Speaker, 
today is a milestone in the history of 
the fight against AIDS because we are 
celebrating the 28th World AIDS Day. 
For sure, we must continue to build 
upon a bipartisan commitment to ending 
AIDS by the year 2030, both here in 
the U.S. and around the world. 

I will remain deeply involved as the 
Republican co-chair of the Congressional 
HIV/AIDS Caucus because south 
Florida, my community, is ground zero 
for the next phase of the battle against 
HIV/AIDS. 

Sadly, Florida is number one in the 
Nation for new HIV cases, and south 
Florida accounts for more than half of 
all new HIV cases in our State. Florida’s 
growing struggle with HIV/AIDS 
mirrors a larger dynamic taking place 
across the South for which the region, 
as a whole, is not well-prepared. South 
Florida’s issues, in particular, are exacerbated 
by the demographics of HIV, 
our magnetism as a tourist destination, 
and the international character of 
both our community and the AIDS epidemic. 


Next year is a big year for the fight 
against HIV/AIDS. The AIDS community 
and the Congressional HIV/AIDS 
Caucus will remain committed to putting 
an end to AIDS by the year 2030. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7063 

b 1015 

PRESIDENT OBAMA’S LEGACY 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Illinois (Mr. QUIGLEY) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, 8 years 
ago, our Nation was in the midst of the 
Great Recession. It was the worst economic 
downturn since the Great Depression, 
unprecedented in both severity 
and duration. It was an economic 
tailspin that blindsided many, devastated 
millions, and robbed good people 
of their savings, their security, and 
their way of life. It was a disastrous 
combination of irresponsible lending, 
overly complex derivatives, and inadequate 
regulatory oversight that led to 
a near collapse of our financial system. 
Over the course of this economic catastrophe, 
more than 5 million Americans 
lost the roof over their head, and 
another 9 million lost the paycheck 
they relied on to support themselves 
and their families. People were terrified 
for their futures, and for the first 
time in generations, it looked as if 
moms and dads might have it better off 
than their sons and daughters. 
This chaos and despair extended far 
beyond economics. At the end of 2008, 
almost 16 percent of the population was 
uninsured. This meant that over 50 
million Americans were crossing their 
fingers, holding their breath, and hoping 
to avoid any unpredictable, unanticipated, 
and uncontrollable health 
concerns that would turn their lives 
upside down. Simply being a woman or 
having asthma was enough for insurance 
companies to deny you quality 
care, and basic preventive and primary 
care services were hard to come by. 
Thousands of brave men and women 
in uniform had been killed, and scores 
more were wounded in a long and polarizing 
war in Iraq. LGBT Americans 
had to keep their true identities hidden. 
Gay men and women who served 
their Nation in uniform and risked 
their lives in defense of our freedom 
had to stay quiet about whom they 
loved, and those who were open about 
their sexual orientation were not allowed 
to join their partner in marriage 
if they lived in one of the 48 States 
that prohibited same-sex marriage. 
This was the state of our Nation. 
This is the America that President 
Obama inherited on January 20, 2009. 
Things look a little different today, 
and I know that I speak for millions of 
Americans who are grateful for the 
past 8 years fueled by real change that 
made our economy stronger and our society 
much more just. 
When President Obama took his oath 
of office, the economy was bleeding 
800,000 jobs a month. Today, we have 
seen record private sector job growth 
marked by over 15 million new jobs 
over the past 80 months. 
At the height of the recession in 2009, 
unemployment hit an alarming 10 percent; 
but, today, the unemployment 
rate is below 5 percent. Today, thanks 
to the Dodd-Frank Act, systemic risk 

in our financial system has been significantly 
reduced, and our largest 
banking institutions are more transparent 
and accountable than they have 
been in decades. 

Today, marriage equality is now the 
law of the land in all 50 States. Today, 
nearly 18 million previously uninsured 
Americans have gained coverage under 
the Affordable Care Act, resulting in 
the lowest uninsured rate in history. 
Today, men and women are charged the 
same price for health care. Americans 
can access preventive care services at 
no cost. Preexisting conditions don’t 
bar individuals from treatment, and 
young people can stay on their parents’ 
plan until they are 26. 

Today, because of the Lilly Ledbetter 
Fair Pay Act, which was the first piece 
of legislation signed by President 
Obama, women can more effectively 
challenge unequal pay practices. 

Today, previously fraught relationships 
with many allied countries have 
been restored. Today, the combat mission 
in Iraq is over and tens of thousands 
of troops are back home with 
their families after years of war. 
Today, justice has been served, and 
Osama bin Laden is dead. 

Today, our Nation has championed 
some of the most profound climate 
change initiatives in the world, like 
the Clean Power Plan and the Paris Accords, 
which will help protect our precious 
natural resources and defend our 
environment for generations to come. 

It is up to us to decide if we want to 
move forward or back. Nearly a decade 
of progress is on the chopping block. 

There is no doubt that everyone is 
still reeling from the long and divisive 
campaign season that culminated in an 
election that left millions of Americans 
scared once again. 

The economic recovery and social 
victories we have seen during the 
Obama presidency have been substantial, 
but much more work remains to 
ensure that Americans have an equal 
opportunity to succeed; because even 
though today looks better than it did 8 
years ago, what will tomorrow look 
like? 

As for now, and as for me, I am proud 
to have served in the people’s House 
under this President. 

f 

PAYING FOR INFRASTRUCTURE 

WITHOUT SOAKING THE TAX


PAYER 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. MCCLINTOCK) for 5 minutes. 


Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, 
President-elect Trump has many difficult 
tasks ahead—one of which is to 
promote long overdue infrastructure 
construction at a time when the national 
debt exceeds our entire economy 
and interest costs alone are eating us 
alive. Now, some have said that a rebounding 
economy resulting from tax 
reform can pay for it. Well, that may 
be, but it is not guaranteed, it cannot 

be accurately forecasted, and we will 
need any new revenues to beef up our 
defenses and reduce our deficit—two 
other critical objectives of the new administration. 


Others have proposed tax credits to 
leverage private capital for infrastructure 
improvements. But tax credits reduce 
revenue and widen the deficit. 
Worse, such public-private partnerships 
have proven a fertile breeding ground 
for corruption, crony capitalism, 
waste, and fraud; and as we learned 
during the Obama stimulus fiasco, 
massive government spending might 
stimulate government, but it does little 
to stimulate the economy when it is 
squandered for boondoggles like subsidizing 
Solyndra and paying cash for 
clunkers. 

So how do we avoid mistakes of the 
past, control the deficit, protect taxpayers, 
and yet add $1 trillion of new 
infrastructure in a way that helps the 
economy and not just lines the pockets 
of politically well-connected interests? 

First, get government out of the way. 
Stop obstructing major infrastructure 
projects like the Keystone Pipeline. 
Keystone and many other projects like 
it across the country already have private 
capital ready to finance them. 
Keystone by itself would unleash an estimated 
$8 billion of privately financed 
infrastructure construction, and when 
complete, would mean a half million 
barrels a day of Canadian crude oil entering 
U.S. markets. 

In my district alone, one abusive official 
at the Sacramento office of the 
Army Corps of Engineers single-
handedly blocked tens of millions of 
dollars of critical infrastructure construction 
desperately sought by local 
governments in the region. Multiply 
that across the country, and you can 
see how many infrastructure projects 
already are financed but cannot move 
forward because of Federal obstructionism. 


Second, streamline radical regulations 
that have made many infrastructure 
projects cost-prohibitive. In my 
district, the little town of Foresthill 
gets its water from the Sugar Pine Reservoir, 
formed by a dam that has an 18-
foot spillway, but no spillway gate. The 
town is trying to increase the reservoir’s 
capacity by adding the missing 
gate. The gate will cost $2 million, but 
environmental studies, environmental 
litigation, and U.S. Forest Service fees 
have inflated that cost to $11 million. 
So this project has stalled. Multibillion 
dollar expansion of Shasta Dam is 
stalled for similar reasons. Once again, 
multiply this across the rest of the 
country. 

Third, use revenue bonds to finance 
capital-intensive projects like dams 
and bridges. California built its iconic 
Golden Gate and Bay Bridges with 
loans from private investors—repaid by 
tolls that were charged only to the 
users of the bridges. The taxpayers 
were never on the hook for a dime, and 
the loans were paid back ahead of 
schedule. 


H7064 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

The famous California State Water 
Project constructed 21 dams and more 
than 700 miles of canals. The revenue 
bonds and self-liquidating general obligation 
bonds that financed it were paid 
back not by general taxpayers, but by 
the users of the water and power. 

Fourth, restore the integrity of our 
highway trust fund. We built the modern 
interstate system with the Federal 
excise tax paid by highway users at the 
gas pump. The more you drove, the 
more you paid for the roads you were 
using. But over the decades, more and 
more of these funds were bled away to 
subsidize mass transit and other purposes 
unrelated to highway construction. 
Restoring highway taxes for highways 
would go a long way toward addressing 
the maintenance and construction 
backlog. 

Fifth, repeal the outdated Davis-
Bacon Act that requires Federal 
projects to pay grossly inflated wages. 
Think tanks like The Heritage Foundation 
and the Competitive Enterprise 
Institute estimate that Davis-Bacon 
alone inflates total construction costs 
by roughly 10 percent. That means that 
just repealing this single act would add 
one new project for every 10 existing 
ones at no additional cost. 

These are just a few of the ways that 
massive infrastructure projects can be 
financed at zero cost to general taxpayers; 
and because these reforms are 
actually directed at projects for which 
there is a demonstrated economic need, 
political favoritism and corruption inherent 
in government-directed programs 
can be greatly reduced. 

Mr. Speaker, freedom works; and it is 
time that we put it and America back 
to work. 

f 

RECOGNIZING LESLIE MCGOWAN, 
HEROINE OF THE MONTH 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
California (Mr. COSTA) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to recognize Leslie McGowan as November’s 
Heroine of the Month. 

The Hero or the Heroine of the 
Month is an individual in the community 
in the San Joaquin Valley in California 
who goes the extra mile to make 
a positive difference for the people 
whom I serve. 

Leslie is the CEO of Livingston Community 
Health, a medical and dental 
provider with community health center 
locations throughout Merced County. 

Leslie has been a part of the team at 
the Livingston health center for over 
10 years, and she has been instrumental 
in the development of the success of 
the health center, which enables residents 
in Merced County to receive 
health services that would not be otherwise 
available. 

One hundred percent of Merced County 
is a Health Professional Shortage 
Area—not enough health care. In other 
words, the county has a major shortage 
of primary care physicians. 

The Livingston health center has an 
important role in working to fill that 

gap so that no one goes untreated. 
Most recently, Leslie led the efforts for 
the opening of the Wolves Wellness 
Center at Livingston High School. It is 
the only school-based health center in 
Merced County. It provides medical 
care, counseling, and dental services to 
students, their families, and local residents 
at no or very low cost. 

Additionally, Leslie has implemented 
programs like the Back to School Fair, 
Homeless Health Day, and an annual 
scholarship fundraiser to help ensure 
that people know that they have access 
to quality and affordable health services. 
This was all made available as a 
result of the Affordable Care Act. 

Livingston Community Health and 
its doctors, nurses, and staff work to 
ensure that individuals who live in 
rural communities—many rural communities 
throughout this country, 
many that I represent—and throughout 
Merced County have access to quality, 
affordable health services. 

As a strong supporter of community 
health centers, it is a pleasure to recognize 
and give a big thank-you to Leslie 
McGowan and her staff of doctors 
and nurses at Livingston Community 
Health. 

WATER AND CALIFORNIA’S DROUGHT 

Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to speak about water and California’s 
ongoing drought. This week, the California 
Department of Water Resources 
announced that the 2017 initial allocation 
for the State Water Project is 20 
percent—not good. 

I join with drought-stricken communities 
like those in the San Joaquin 
Valley and California farmers, farm 
workers, and farm communities who 
are all praying that the initial water 
allocation of 20 percent improves when 
the Department of Water Resources 
issues a final allocation not just for the 
State water projects, but for the Federal 
water projects as well. 

However, with the current operations 
of California’s water system, it would 
take storms of Biblical proportions for 
these agencies that are served by the 
State and Federal Water Project to be 
able to increase those allocations to 100 
percent. 

That is why Congress must act now 
to pass a California water bill that will 
improve operations to fix our broken 
water system. We need legislation to 
provide funding to improve our water 
infrastructure and to move more water 
when larger storms make it available, 
as in last weekend. 

California may soon face a sixth consecutive 
dry year. Therefore, as a result 
of the drought and the inadequate 
and broken water system, hundreds of 
thousands of acre-feet of water have 
been lost, and 600,000 acres of productive 
farmland has, unfortunately, been 
left unplanted. 

Some families in my district do not 
have reliable water to drink, to cook, 
or to bathe in. The drought, together 
with the current water policies, are 
devastating to the San Joaquin Valley. 

So, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues 
to work together in these last 

few days as we try to assist the people 
in Flint, Michigan, and to bring together 
a package of legislation that 
will end the impasse that we have had 
and provide water if, in fact, the good 
Lord sees to bringing rain and snow to 
the mountains this winter in California. 


f 

b 1030 

5A STATE CHAMPIONS: ELK RIVER 
ELKS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Minnesota (Mr. EMMER) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. EMMER of Minnesota. Mr. 
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate 
the Elk River High School football 
team on their Class 5A State Championship 
victory. Entering the State 
title game undefeated, the Elks scored 
an impressive 42 points and rushed for 
a total of 446 yards over Spring Lake 
Park at U.S. Bank Stadium last Saturday. 


The Elks had an incredible season, 
averaging 45 points and 449 rushing 
yards per game. Every Elk deserves 
mention, but two in particular played a 
special role in their success—Nick Rice 
and Sam Gibas. 

Rice finished the season with 2,154 
rushing yards and a total of 25 touchdowns, 
and Gibas finished with 1,330 
rushing yards and 23 touchdowns. 

The Elk River football team worked 
hard this season under the guidance of 
Coach Steve Hamilton, and their efforts 
paid off. 

Congratulations for being the 2016 
Minnesota State high school football 
champions. 

REMEMBERING A TRUE PUBLIC SERVANT 

Mr. EMMER of Minnesota. Mr. 
Speaker, I rise today to remember the 
life of St. Francis Police Chief Jake 
Rehling, who lost his battle with a rare 
form of cancer last month. What a life 
he lived. Jake Rehling spent his life 
working tirelessly to better the St. 
Francis community and the lives of 
those around him. 

A native Minnesotan, Jake grew up 
in Onamia and attended Bethel University, 
where he studied criminal justice. 
Upon graduation, Jake joined the St. 
Francis Police Department where he 
served for 17 years. His passion for his 
work and the compassion he displayed 
to others ultimately led to his promotion 
to St. Francis police chief earlier 
this year. 

Jake was committed to his family 
and his community. His life is the definition 
of public service. He will be 
missed. 

I would like to express my sincere 
condolences to Jake’s wife, Brooke, 
and son, Aiden. Please know the impact 
Jake had on this world will always 
be remembered. 

REMEMBERING DR. WARREN WARWICK 

Mr. EMMER of Minnesota. Mr. 
Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to 
the life and work of Dr. Warren Warwick. 



December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7065 

As a professor of pediatrics at the 
University of Minnesota, Dr. Warwick 
was a pioneer in the advancement of 
care for cystic fibrosis patients. 

Early in his career, Dr. Warwick 
founded the University of Minnesota 
Cystic Fibrosis Clinic, where he served 
as director for nearly 40 years. Dr. Warwick 
was known for his compassion, 
kindness, ingenuity, and tireless commitment 
to the improvement of patient 
care. 

Because of his work, the Cystic Fibrosis 
Foundation patient registry was 
created. Before the creation of the cystic 
fibrosis registry, cystic fibrosis patients 
typically lived into their early 
childhood. Today, many live well beyond 
their 50s, thanks largely to the 
advancements and treatment only possible 
through the patient registry and 
Dr. Warwick’s unwavering commitment 
to research and excellence in patient 
care. 

In addition to serving his patients, 
Dr. Warwick honorably served his 
country for over 30 years in the United 
States Army Reserve Medical Corps, 
retiring as a colonel. 

His legacy—one of a passionate pursuit 
of excellence and dedicating his 
life to helping others—will live on. 

f 

DAKOTA ACCESS PIPELINE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from 
Hawaii (Ms. GABBARD) for 5 minutes. 
Ms. GABBARD. Mr. Speaker, growing 
up in Hawaii, I learned the value of 
caring for our home, caring for our 
planet, and the basic principle that we 
are all connected in this great chain of 
cause and effect. 
The Dakota Access Pipeline is a 
threat to this great balance of life. Despite 
strong opposition from the Standing 
Rock Sioux and serious concerns 
raised by the EPA, the Department of 
the Interior, the Advisory Council on 
Historic Preservation, and other Federal 
agencies, the Army Corps of Engineers 
approved permits to construct 
the Dakota Access Pipeline without 
adequately consulting the tribes and 
without fully evaluating the potential 
impacts to the neighboring tribal 
lands, sacred sites, and their water supply. 
Just one spill near the tribe’s reservation 
could release thousands of 
barrels of crude oil, contaminating the 
tribe’s drinking water. 
The impact of the Dakota Access 
Pipeline is clear. Energy Transfer Partners, 
the company that is constructing 
the Dakota pipeline, has a history of 
serious pipeline explosions, which have 
caused injury, death, and significant 
property damage in the past decade. 
The future operator of the planned 
pipeline, Sunoco Logistics Partners, 
has had over 200 environmentally damaging 
oil spills in the last 6 years 
alone, more than any of its competitors. 
Protecting our water is not a partisan 
political issue; it is an issue that 
is important to all people and all living 

beings everywhere. Water is life. We 
cannot survive without it. Once we 
allow an aquifer to be polluted, there is 
very little that can be done about it. 
This is why it is essential that we prevent 
our water resources from being 
polluted in the first place. 

Our Founding Fathers took great inspiration 
from Native American forms 
of governance and the democratic principles 
that they were founded on. Their 
unique form of governance was built on 
an agreement called the Great Law of 
Peace, which states that before beginning 
their deliberations, the council 
shall be obliged ‘‘to express their gratitude 
to their cousins and greet them, 
and they shall make an address and 
offer thanks to the Earth where men 
dwell, to the streams of water, the 
pools, the springs and the lakes, to the 
maize and the fruits, to the medicinal 
herbs and trees, to the forest trees for 
their usefulness . . . and to the Great 
Creator who dwells in the heavens 
above, who gives all the things useful 
to men, and who is the source and the 
ruler of health and life.’’ 

This recognition of our debt to the 
Creator and our responsibility to be responsible 
members of this great web of 
life was there from the beginning of 
western democracy. 

Freedom is not a buzzword. The freedom 
of our Founding Fathers was not 
the freedom to bulldoze wherever you 
like. 

Our freedom is a freedom of mind, a 
freedom of heart, a freedom to worship 
as we see fit, freedom from tyranny, 
and freedom from terror. That is the 
freedom this country was founded on— 
the freedom cultivated by America’s 
native people and the freedom that the 
Standing Rock Sioux are now exercising. 


This weekend, I am joining thousands 
of veterans from all across the 
country at Standing Rock to stand in 
solidarity with our Native American 
brothers and sisters. Together, we call 
on President Obama to immediately 
halt the construction of this pipeline, 
respect the sacred lands of the Standing 
Rock Sioux, and respect their right 
to clean water. The truth is whether it 
is the threat to essential water sources 
in this region, the lead contaminated 
water in Flint, Michigan, or the threat 
posed to a major Hawaii aquifer by the 
Red Hill fuel leak, each example underscores 
the vital importance of protecting 
our water resources. 

We cannot undo history, but we must 
learn lessons from the past and carry 
them forward, to encourage cooperation 
among free people, to protect the 
sacred, and to care for the Earth, for 
our children and our children’s children. 
What is at stake is our shared 
heritage of freedom and democracy and 
our shared future on this great Turtle 
Island, our United States of America. 

f 

RECOGNIZING CAPTAIN WILLIAM 

B.J. FORE 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 

North Carolina (Mr. MEADOWS) for 5 
minutes. 

Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize the service of a 
great public servant on his retirement—
Captain William B.J. Fore. 

B.J., as I call him, a great friend 
from Caldwell County, North Carolina, 
has served in the Caldwell County 
Sheriff’s Office for a number of years. 
Today, Mr. Speaker, I could rise and go 
through a litany of different positions 
on how he has served that great county, 
but it would miss the point, it 
would miss the point of who B.J. Fore 
really is. 

He is a gentleman that not only do I 
call a friend, but he is someone who 
has served Caldwell County over and 
over again, consistently answering the 
call with the word ‘‘yes.’’ 

B.J. Fore has not only served the 
Caldwell County area in public service 
as a law enforcement officer, but he 
has consistently been someone who is 
always there to serve those that are in 
need. I remember specifically just a 
few years back where he and I were 
working together on trying to serve 
some of those that were in most need 
during an event at Halloween time. 
Some would come in, and there he was 
making sure that not only children and 
families were recognized for what they 
had or didn’t have, but some of them, 
perhaps even that day, showed up to 
get the meal that only they could have 
provided at that particular event. 
It is a heart of a big man, a big man 
of courage, that I recognize today on 
his retirement. I wish him the very 
heartfelt congratulations on a life that 
has served Caldwell County so well, 
and I wish him the very best in his future 
endeavors. 

f 

COMMERCE LEXINGTON 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. BARR) for 5 minutes. 
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to honor Commerce Lexington, the 
chamber of commerce for my hometown 
of Lexington, Kentucky, which 
has been named the 2016 Chamber of 
the Year by the Association of Chamber 
of Commerce Executives. 
Commerce Lexington won the large 
chamber category over the great cities 
of Brooklyn, New York; Jacksonville, 
Florida; and Tacoma, Washington. This 
award is recognition of Commerce 
Lexington’s work to promote economic 
development, job creation, and overall 
business growth in Lexington and 
neighboring communities through its 
many programs and services. 
As a member-driven organization, 
the award is also a reflection of Commerce 
Lexington’s 1,700 members, as 
well as their volunteers and staff, ably 
led by CEO and President Bob Quick. 
In addition to the Chamber of the 
Year award, Commerce Lexington also 
received a Grand Award in Communications 
for their ‘‘Here’s Our Proof’’ marketing 
campaign during the 2015 Breeders’ 
Cup World Thoroughbred Championships, 
which showcased central 


H7066 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

Kentucky and the Bluegrass region as 
a great place to do business, as well as 
an ideal location for conventions and 
tourism. It helped, of course, that 
American Pharoah did what no other 
thoroughbred had done in history—win 
not only the Triple Crown, but also the 
Grand Slam of thoroughbred racing 
going wire to wire in the Breeders’ Cup 
Classic at Keeneland Racecourse— 
Keeneland, of course, a key member of 
Commerce Lexington. 

Mr. Speaker, I hope that all of my 
colleagues will join me in congratulating 
Commerce Lexington on achieving 
this national honor, and for their 
hard work to encourage jobs and economic 
growth in central Kentucky and 
to share how special our city and our 
region are with the world—of course, 
Lexington, the world’s horse capital of 
the world. 

f 

RECOGNIZING MASTER 
FIREFIGHTER MICHAEL CURRY 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
Georgia (Mr. CARTER) for 5 minutes. 

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise today in recognition of Master 
Firefighter Michael Curry, who passed 
away in the line of duty on Saturday, 
November 19, in Savannah, Georgia. 

Mr. Curry’s work as a firefighter allowed 
him to do what he loved most— 
help people. On his last alarm as a firefighter, 
he rescued seven people from 
the Savannah River after a ferry boarding 
platform collapsed. His 13 years of 
dedication to the Savannah community 
and the fire department shows in his 
numerous volunteer activities. 

He worked as an emergency medical 
responder, disaster search and rescue 
technician, swift water rescue technician, 
advanced rescue diver, and was 
involved in groups, including the Alee 
Temple, the Georgia Critical Incident 
Stress Foundation, and was the cub 
master for pack number 4102. 

Mr. Michael Curry is a true hero, who 
died in service to our community running 
toward an emergency while others 
sought out safety. 

I am heartbroken by this loss. Our 
community is heartbroken by this loss. 
I encourage everyone to keep the Curry 
family and first responders everywhere 
in your thoughts and prayers. 

RECOGNIZING DON LOGANA 

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise today in recognition of Don 
Logana, a longtime reporter in the Savannah 
community, who passed away 
on Sunday, November 20. 

Mr. Logana joined the local Savannah 
news station, WTOC, in 2004, and 
quickly became an integral part of the 
Savannah news scene and a familiar 
face in our homes. 

b 1045 
His career began in Syracuse, New 
York, as an intern, but his talent for 
finding a story and bringing a unique 
point of view allowed him to quickly 
rise up the ranks. 

When he moved to Savannah, he became 
the weekday morning anchor for 
WTOC’s ‘‘The News at Daybreak’’ and 
an investigative reporter who exposed 
consumer issues. A testament to his 
talent, Mr. Logana received multiple 
awards and was honored throughout his 
career, with the most recent being for 
the Best Local TV News Anchor 2016 by 
Connect Savannah. 

In addition to his news accomplishments, 
Mr. Logana had a heart of gold 
and was constantly involved in the 
community. In 2011, he competed in 
‘‘Dancing with Savannah Stars,’’ raising 
the most money for abused and neglected 
children. 

Mr. Logana’s colleagues describe him 
as a trusted friend to all and someone 
whose bright, loving personality will be 
deeply missed. 

Mr. Logana’s loss is felt by the whole 
Savannah community. I encourage everyone 
to keep the Logana family and 
WTOC Savannah in their thoughts and 
prayers. 

3RD INFANTRY DIVISION’S 99 YEARS OF SERVICE 

Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise to recognize the U.S. Army’s 
3rd Infantry Division and its 99 years of 
service to the United States Armed 
Forces. The 3rd ID has been located in 
coastal Georgia for the past 20 years; 
yet its amazing history dates back to 
1917. 

During World War I, the 3rd Infantry 
Division earned the name ‘‘Rock of the 
Marne’’ by pushing the Germans back 
across the Marne River and stopping 
their march to occupy the important 
allied city of Paris. The 3rd ID continued 
to fight the Germans at the Marne 
even as other units retreated. 

In 1943, during World War II, the 3rd 
ID was one of the few divisions to fight 
the Axis Powers on all European 
fronts. They fought in north Africa, 
Italy, France, Germany, and Austria. 
The 3rd ID even liberated half of 
French Morocco from the Nazi influence. 


Since the World Wars, the 3rd ID has 
continued to support America’s safety 
and freedom by fighting bravely in the 
Vietnam war, the Korean war, Operation 
Desert Storm, and the global war 
on terrorism. 

Thank you to the 3rd ID for your 
courage, your sacrifice, and your commitment 
to our national security. 

f 

THE DEATH OF FIDEL CASTRO 

BRINGS AN OPPORTUNITY OF 

HOPE FOR CUBA 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
South Carolina (Mr. WILSON) for 5 minutes. 


Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. 
Speaker, last Friday began a new era 
for the people of Cuba. For too long, 
the murderous dictatorship of Fidel 
Castro has reduced one of Latin America’s 
wealthiest countries to mass poverty 
in order to benefit the Communist 
elite and the military. 

A recent editorial in The Charleston 
Post and Courier stated: ‘‘Fidel, 

though he thrived on opposing the 
U.S., he was long subservient to another 
superpower, the Soviet Union, 
until its welcome demise in 1991. He 
also was an enthusiastic proponent of 
the Soviets’ reckless decision to put 
weapons of mass destruction aimed at 
the U.S. in his country.’’ 

President-elect Trump has correctly 
reviewed: ‘‘It is my hope that today 
marks a move away from the horrors 
endured for too long, and toward a future 
in which the wonderful Cuban people 
finally live in the freedom they so 
richly deserve.’’ 

I have been inspired by the late Louis 
and Nena Gonda, who fled Cuba with 
their three daughters as all of their 
property was stolen. They told me 
about their daughters. They were told 
to pack for a 2-week visit to visit a 
sick aunt in New York. They went to a 
department store there in Cuba, and 
they bought suitcases. When they arrived 
home, the secret police were already 
at the house. They asked them: 
What are you buying suitcases for? It 
was explained that they were buying 
suitcases to go visit a sick aunt in New 
York and that they would be returning 
in 2 weeks. 

They just didn’t have the heart to 
tell their children—their three young 
girls—that they would never return to 
their home, that they would never see 
their personal property. Their cars, the 
ones that now appear to be unique, are 
all stolen cars when you see the classic 
cars in Cuba. Everything that the family 
owned was stolen by the Communist 
government. 

They fled to West Columbia, South 
Carolina, where they worked hard to 
achieve the American Dream of extraordinary 
economic success as neighbors 
in my home County of Lexington, 
South Carolina. 

In conclusion, God bless our troops; 
and may the President, by his actions, 
never forget September the 11th in the 
global war on terrorism. 

f 

RECESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair 
declares the House in recess until noon 
today. 

Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 49 
minutes a.m.), the House stood in recess. 


f 

b 1200 

AFTER RECESS 

The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker at 
noon. 

f 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick 

J. Conroy, offered the following prayer: 
Loving and gracious God, we give 
You thanks for giving us another day. 
Help us this day to draw closer to 
You so that, with Your Spirit and 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7067 

aware of Your presence among us, we 
may all face the tasks of this day. 

Bless the Members of the people’s 
House. Help them to think clearly, 
speak confidently, and act courageously 
in the belief that all noble 
service is based upon patience, truth, 
and love. 

You know well the pressing issues 
facing our Nation. Grant our leaders, 
especially, the wisdom and magnanimity 
to do what is best; and may we 
all join in a common will for the benefit 
of all constituencies, even though 
this will take some sacrifice. 

May all that is done this day be for 
Your greater honor and glory. 

Amen. 

f 

THE JOURNAL 

The SPEAKER. The Chair has examined 
the Journal of the last day’s proceedings 
and announces to the House 
his approval thereof. 

Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Journal 
stands approved. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman 
from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS) come forward 
and lead the House in the Pledge 
of Allegiance. 

Mr. BILIRAKIS led the Pledge of Allegiance 
as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 

The SPEAKER. The Chair will entertain 
up to 15 requests for 1-minute 
speeches on each side of the aisle. 

f 

RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF 

KIM HOLMES OF DAYTON, OHIO 

(Mr. TURNER asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. TURNER. Mr. Speaker, I am here 
today to recognize the service of Kim 
Holmes as she retires from over 32 
years of combined constituent services 
to the citizens of Ohio. 

Kim Holmes joined my Dayton office 
in July of 2007 as a caseworker. She 
began working for me after the retirement 
of her former boss, Congressman 
Mike Oxley. Since 2007, Kim has helped 
thousands of people on my constituent 
services team. Those numbers increase 
exponentially when you factor in 23 
years of service in Congressman Oxley’s 
office. 

Kim’s direct, persistent, and dedicated 
work has helped make a difference 
in the lives of Ohioans in several 
of the counties in Ohio: Montgomery, 
Greene, Fayette, Allen, 
Auglaize, Champaign, Hancock, Hardin, 
Logan, Marion, Morrow, Richland, 
Shelby, and part of Wyandot. 

Kim expeditiously resolved problems 
across multiple issues from veterans, 

Social Security, Medicare, and immigration 
by developing a strong and 
long-lasting relationship with fellow 
agencies. 

I made the point to stop by her office 
every day I saw her and thanked her 
for being there. In the words of her 
constituents, it is probably best reported 
as to her impact. They have 
said: 

‘‘I don’t know what I would have 

done without you.’’ 

‘‘I will never forget your kindness.’’ 

‘‘We deeply appreciate your attention 
to our claim.’’ 

‘‘We cannot express our gratitude to 
you enough.’’ 

‘‘I appreciate your help more than 
words can express.’’ 

‘‘There are still good people in this 
world who still care and want to help. 
You are one of those.’’ 

On behalf of your coworkers and the 
countless constituents you have assisted, 
your knowledge, compassion, 
and efficiency will be sorely missed. 
Thank you for representing my office 
in the highest standards. I hope that 
you enjoy your retirement with your 
grown children, Jason and Tori, as well 
as your grandson, Luke. 

I wish you all the best. 

f 

OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY ATTACK 
(Mrs. BEATTY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to salute the Ohio State University 
Buckeye community for its 
strength and resilience in response to 
the tragic incident when an Ohio State 
University student rammed his car 
into a crowd of students on the campus 
and then stabbed several of them in an 
attack that ended when a police officer 
shot and killed him. 
I applaud the university president, 
Michael Drake, university leadership, 
and its incredible student alert system, 
along with multiagency police officials 
for working together to enhance the 
safety and security of the university. 
These first responders acted quickly 
and selflessly, including an Ohio State 
University police officer who, within 
seconds, responded to the violence, 
containing injuries and diffusing the 
situation. 
I thank the medical team and staff at 
the Wexner Medical Center and surrounding 
hospitals for treating 11 patients 
to ensure full recovery. 
As the former senior vice president of 
outreach and engagement at the university, 
I was never prouder of how we 
came together quickly in the face of 
terror. I thank all at the university for 
continuing to exemplify the Buckeye 
spirit and remaining united, even in 
the face of adversity. 
Go Bucks. 

f 

CONGRATULATING COACH BROOKE 

GOOD AND THE MESSIAH COL


LEGE FIELD HOCKEY TEAM 

(Mr. PERRY asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 

minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to congratulate Coach Brooke 
Good and the Messiah College field 
hockey team of Pennsylvania’s Fourth 
District on their NCAA Division III national 
championship. 

Messiah College played through 
freezing temperatures, wind, and snow 
against Tufts University in the NCAA 
Division III national championship on 
November 20, and they came away with 
a 1–0 decision in penalty strokes that 
will go down as one of the best games 
in Division III field hockey history. 

The Falcons are a great team with a 
great leader who inspired them to be 
their best—not only as athletes, but as 
women of character, determination, 
pride, and loyalty to each other and to 
their school. 

We are all incredibly proud of you. 

f 

THE PUBLIC GOOD 
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, 
first, I want to acknowledge that this 
is World AIDS Day, and much of the 
success has come because of public 
funding. That is why I rise today, to 
talk about the public good and the responsibility 
of the President and his 
Cabinet members to do the public good. 
I remember when President Clinton 
was in and generated a major surplus 
in our budget, 22 million jobs, pursuant 
to the 1997 budget. We also recognized 
that the next administration generated 
enormous tax cuts, low job creation, 
and a seismic debt that was created because 
of those tax cuts to the 1 percent. 
Now, today, we have the toxicity of 
two billionaires who head the Treasury 
Department: the ‘‘King of Foreclosures,’’ 
forced foreclosures, and the 
other who will head the no-job-creating 
Commerce Department by this individual. 
Rather than supporting full employment 
or creating jobs, everything will 
be for the big pockets of the big corporations, 
not the pockets of the working 
families, like my constituents. 
So I raise the question to Mr. Trump: 
Where are the appointees that are 
going to work for the public good? 
Where are the individuals that are 
going to have the sufficient wisdom to 
provide the funding that will support 
continued work on stifling out and 
snuffing out HIV/AIDS? Where are 
those that are going to listen to the 
people? 
This toxic brand has to stop. 

f 

HONORING NAVAL SUPPORT 
ACTIVITY CRANE 

(Mr. BUCSHON asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BUCSHON. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
honor of a premier U.S. military base 


H7068 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

in my district, Naval Support Activity 
Crane. 

Seventy-five years ago today, December 
1, 1941, Crane Naval Installation officially 
opened. One week later, Pearl 
Harbor was bombed, and the need for 
an ordnance facility safe from attack 
on the coasts became obvious. 

Today, at 100 square miles, Naval 
Support Activity Crane is the U.S. 
Navy’s third largest installation in the 
world. The base is home to two vital 
tenant commands: Naval Surface Warfare 
Center, a center of excellence in 
strategic systems, electronic warfare, 
and expeditionary systems; and Crane 
Army Ammunition Activity, through 
which 25 percent of the Department of 
Defense conventional munitions passes 
every year. 

Crane is also a regional economic 
powerhouse, supporting 5,000 civilian 
employees and contributing $2 million 
a day to Indiana’s economy. This critical 
military asset is a national treasure 
for research and development and 
an outstanding Hoosier neighbor. I 
proudly salute the men and women who 
call it home. 

f 

BUFFALO’S CENTRAL TERMINAL 
(Mr. HIGGINS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Mr. HIGGINS. Mr. Speaker, Buffalo 
will select a new site for a train station 
in the next several months and will 
build a new passenger train terminal in 
the next 2 years. This offers an opportunity 
to remake Buffalo’s storied Central 
Terminal. 
Selection of the Central Terminal 
will be a catalyst for the redevelopment 
of the city’s Broadway-Fillmore 
neighborhood, improve destination 
choice, and will represent the next exciting 
iteration of what is possible in 
the new Buffalo. 
This is not simply about building a 
new train station. Selection of the Central 
Terminal is a bold statement of 
confidence and commitment by a city 
of limitless potential and possibility. 

f 

SARAH HUGHES’ MIRACLE CURE 

(Mr. OLSON asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I want the 
American people to know why I proudly 
voted for the 21st Century Cures Act 
last night—six words: Sarah Hughes 
and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 


Sarah found out she had this autoimmune 
disorder when she was 11 
months old. For over 20 years, she 
fought intense pain, fevers of 107 degrees, 
and getting fed through a tube 
for over a decade. 

Her mom, Fiona, was told by her doctors 
that she would watch her daughter 
die before she turned 20 years old. 
Sarah proved those doctors wrong by 
getting stem cell therapy from Celltex 

Therapeutics from my own town of 
Sugar Land, Texas. 

Within 2 hours of her first infusion, 
Sarah felt a change. Here she is today. 
Her mom, Fiona, summed up Sarah’s 
amazing miracle. She said: ‘‘She’s her, 
and I’m me. We’re enjoying life together, 
the way it should be.’’ 

f 

REMEMBERING THE SERVICE AND 

SACRIFICE OF OFFICER COLLIN 

ROSE 

(Mr. KILDEE asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to 
pay respects and remember Officer 
Collin Rose, who was killed in the line 
of duty last week in Detroit while on 
patrol near Wayne State University. 

To the Rose family, including Collin’s 
fiancee, Nikki, I am terribly sorry 
for your loss. At just 29 years old, 
Collin was taken from your family and 
this world far too soon. Our community, 
our State, and our country are all 
standing with you during this difficult 
time. 

His fellow officers described Collin as 
always being kindhearted and hardworking. 
One officer said that Collin 
always had an engaging smile and generous 
spirit. Another officer said that 
he was the hardest working person he 
had ever met. 

His grandfather, Clifford Rose, told a 
local news outlet that at the age of 8, 
Collin knew he wanted to be a police 
officer. As an officer at Wayne State, 
Collin was most passionate, though, 
about canines and training Clyde, his 
rottweiler, and Wolverine, a German 
shorthaired pointer. ‘‘His passion was 
training those dogs,’’ said one of his 
fellow officers. 

This is a terrible loss, and I ask all of 
my fellow Members of the House of 
Representatives present to join me in 
observing and honoring the memory of 
Collin Rose, his service, and his sacrifice. 


f 

HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE 

OF TUSKEGEE AIRMAN WILLIE 

ROGERS 

(Mr. BILIRAKIS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor the life and service of 
an American hero from St. Petersburg, 
Florida, Tuskegee Airman Willie Rogers. 


Willie was the oldest remaining 
Tuskegee Airman from the original 
legendary 100th Fighter Squadron, the 
first African American military aviators 
in the history of the U.S. Armed 
Forces. He was a part of history, and I 
am saddened to hear he passed away recently 
at the incredible age of 101. 

Willie truly represented the Greatest 
Generation: humble, hardworking, and 
dedicated to his country and his family. 
He fought the Axis powers and pro


tected our freedom and our way of life, 
despite the disgraceful way the 
Tuskegee Airmen were treated. 

We would not be the Nation we are 
today without those who served, Mr. 
Speaker, and I would like to sincerely 
thank Willie and his family again for 
Willie’s honorable service and his unwavering 
love of country. 

f 

b 1215 

STOP GUN VIOLENCE 

(Ms. KELLY of Illinois asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute.) 

Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I 
have spoken on this floor many times 
about gun violence. This summer, 
many of us took to the House floor and 
shut this Chamber down for 26 hours, 
demanding that Congress do something 
to stop gun deaths. We almost lost a 
colleague, Gabby Giffords, to this violence. 
We stand not too far from the 
Gabe Zimmerman Room memorializing 
the brave staffer who lost his life in 
that Tucson shooting. 

I often question if the loss of one of 
our own family members would be 
enough for us to act. Just 2 weeks ago, 
we learned that our esteemed colleague 
DANNY DAVIS’ grandson, Javon Wilson, 
was shot and killed in Chicago. He was 
only 15. Javon joins the list of over 700 
Chicagoans killed by guns this year. 

To those Members that have offered 
their condolences to Congressman 
DAVIS, I say this: True concern and 
compassion requires some action. We 
can start with the bipartisan background 
check legislation. We have to 
start somewhere. Do something so no 
parent or grandparent has to feel this 
pain—Congressman DAVIS’ pain—ever 
again. 

f 

POLL: MEDIA BIAS THREATENS 
DEMOCRACY 

(Mr. SMITH of Texas asked and was 
given permission to address the House 
for 1 minute and to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 

Mr. SMITH of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
media bias is a direct threat to our democracy. 


When the media doesn’t report the 
facts or reports them in a biased manner, 
Americans can’t make good decisions. 
If Americans can’t make good 
decisions, our democracy is at risk. 

Americans understand this. A recent 
USA Today/Suffolk University poll 
found that a majority of Americans believe 
the media poses a threat to our 
democracy. Due to its bias, particularly 
over the last few months, the national 
media has lost much of its credibility. 
In fact, the same poll found that 
less than 8 percent of voters trust the 
Big Three networks to provide fair and 
balanced coverage of the news. 

Americans agree, the liberal national 
media is neither objective nor trustworthy. 



December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7069 

HONORING DR. DEBRA SAUNDERS-

WHITE 

(Ms. ADAMS asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute.) 

Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor the life of the late Dr. 
Debra Saunders-White, a dedicated 
public servant and chancellor of North 
Carolina Central University. A cherished 
friend and confidant, I have never 
met anyone who worked harder and 
who gave more. 

We often worked together on legislation 
related to HBCUs. I could always 
count on her to bring pertinent issues 
to my attention. She remained involved, 
even during her illness with 
cancer. 

Prior to joining the Eagle family, Dr. 
Saunders-White served as acting Assistant 
Secretary for the Office of Postsecondary 
Education in the U.S. Department 
of Education and in university 
administrations of UNC Wilmington 
and Hampton University. 

As chancellor of North Carolina Central 
University, Dr. Saunders-White expanded 
NCCU’s course curriculum, 
helped secure critical investments for 
the university, and increased graduation 
rates. During her first week on 
campus, a campus food bank was 
opened to serve the needs of students, 
faculty, and staff. 

Dr. Debra Saunders-White, educator-
chancellor par excellence, will be sorely 
missed, but her legacy will live forever. 


My thoughts and prayers continue to 
be with the Saunders-White family, 
friends, and the NCC University campus. 


f 

ADVANCES IN HEALTH 

(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given 
permission to address the House for 1 
minute and to revise and extend his remarks.) 


Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, yesterday, 
the House overwhelmingly passed 

H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act, a 
bill that offers help to millions of 
Americans whose needs have been 
pushed aside for far too long and marks 
the first step in helping improve our 
healthcare system, notably in mental 
health. 
I commend my Pennsylvania colleague, 
Congressman TIM MURPHY, for 
his dedication and years of hard work 
on this issue. Back in my district in 
northern California, these failures have 
reached crisis levels of this system. In 
some areas, there are no psychiatric in-
patient beds, leaving patients who are 
suffering to wait days, even weeks, to 
be seen. That could mean having to 
travel hundreds of miles for people who 
need care immediately. In other areas, 
there is virtually no access to psychiatric 
care, due to severe physician 
shortages. 

Law enforcement struggle while responding 
to crisis calls due to lack of 
training, which has, unfortunately, re


sulted in tragic outcomes that we see 
way too many times; as well as the 
opioid struggles, which is a big challenge 
for law enforcement and our 
prosecutors. Heroin really has had a 
great grip in rural areas like mine in 
northern California. Indeed, 1,100 
overdoses in 8 years. 

This bill marks a significant historic, 
bipartisan effort to right what is wrong 
with our mental health system. It not 
only offers solutions, but it offers hope. 

I ask my colleagues in the Senate to 
please take quick action. 

f 

WORLD AIDS DAY 
(Ms. LEE asked and was given permission 
to address the House for 1 
minute.) 
Ms. LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
commemorate World AIDS Day. The 
theme this year is ‘‘Leadership, Commitment, 
Impact.’’ 
First, I would like to thank Leader 
PELOSI for her steadfast commitment 
to fighting HIV and AIDS, and for 
guaranteeing strong United States 
leadership in this area. Also, to the 
Congressional Black Caucus for its 
leadership in the establishment of 
PEPFAR, which was a bipartisan effort 
that President Bush signed into law. 
As the cofounder and co-chair of the 
bipartisan Congressional HIV/AIDS 
Caucus, with Congresswoman ILEANA 
ROS-LEHTINEN and Congressman 
MCDERMOTT, we have seen significant 
progress that we have made in the 
global fight against AIDS. From 
PEPFAR and the Global Fund to fight 
AIDS, TB, and malaria, to the Ryan 
White Care Act and the Minority AIDS 
Initiative led by Congresswoman MAXINE 
WATERS, year after year we have 
committed critical resources to end 
this disease. 
Partly due to our efforts, 18.2 million 
people around the world are now living 
on antiretroviral drugs, and 37 million 
lives have been saved. But much work 
remains, which must continue to be bipartisan. 
Still, stigma and discrimination prevents 
too many people from seeking 
testing and treatment. Around the 
world, countries criminalize LGBT people 
and prevent them from accessing 
critical HIV care. Here in the United 
States, we preserve stigma through 
outdated, unscientific laws that criminalize 
HIV in over 30 States. 
We must end these laws and repeal 
the discrimination laws against people. 

f 

COMMUNICATION FROM THE 
CLERK OF THE HOUSE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
FORTENBERRY) laid before the House 
the following communication from the 
Clerk of the House of Representatives: 

OFFICE OF THE CLERK, 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, December 1, 2016. 

Hon. PAUL D. RYAN, 

The Speaker, House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: Pursuant to the permission 
granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II of 

the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
the Clerk received the following message 
from the Secretary of the Senate on December 
1, 2016, at 11:49 a.m.: 

That the Senate has made a technical correction 
to the engrossment of the Senate 
amendments to the House Concurrent Resolution 
of September 29, 2016 and hereby returns 
to the House the papers to accompany 
the resolution H. Con. Res. 122. 

That the Senate concur in House Amendment 
S. 1550. 
With best wishes, I am, 
Sincerely, 
KAREN L. HAAS. 

f 

COMMUNICATION FROM THE 
CLERK OF THE HOUSE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives: 

OFFICE OF THE CLERK, 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, December 1, 2016. 

Hon. PAUL D. RYAN, 

The Speaker, House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: Pursuant to the permission 
granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II of 
the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
the Clerk received the following message 
from the Secretary of the Senate on December 
1, 2016, at 9:12 a.m.: 

That the Senate passed S. 2971. 

That the Senate passed S. 3183. 

That the Senate passed S. 3386. 

That the Senate passed without amendment 
H.R. 5509. 
That the Senate passed without amendment 
H.R. 5995. 
With best wishes, I am, 
Sincerely, 
KAREN L. HAAS. 

f 

PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. 
2943, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION 
ACT FOR FISCAL 
YEAR 2017 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, by direction 
of the Committee on Rules, I call 
up House Resolution 937 and ask for its 
immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows: 
H. RES. 937 
Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution 
it shall be in order to consider the 
conference report to accompany the bill (S. 
2943) to authorize appropriations for fiscal 
year 2017 for military activities of the Department 
of Defense, for military construction, 
and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes. All points of order against 
the conference report and against its consideration 
are waived. The conference report 
shall be considered as read. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on 
the conference report to its adoption without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate; and (2) one motion to recommit if applicable. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Alabama is recognized for 
1 hour. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, for the 
purpose of debate only, I yield the customary 
30 minutes to the gentleman 


H7070 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

from Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN), 
pending which I yield myself such time 
as I may consume. During consideration 
of this resolution, all time yielded 
is for the purpose of debate only. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise 
and extend their remarks. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Alabama? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 
937 provides for consideration 
of the conference report for the National 
Defense Authorization Act for 
fiscal year 2017. This marks the 55th 
consecutive year that the House and 
Senate are coming together to pass a 
bill to authorize spending and set policy 
for our Nation’s military. 

Just as important, as is the case with 
most of our work on the Armed Services 
Committee that I have the privilege 
to serve on, this was a bipartisan 
process that allowed for numerous 
members to have input into the final 
bill. That is a testament to the great 
work and leadership of Chairman MAC 
THORNBERRY, Ranking Member ADAM 
SMITH, our subcommittee chairmen and 
the entire committee staff. This is 
truly a professional team that puts in 
long hours to make this bill possible, 
and they deserve a lot of credit for 
their efforts. 

Mr. Speaker, I have said on this floor 
many times before that our military 
faces a serious readiness crisis. Budget 
cuts have really thinned out our military 
and hurt our ability to train and 
prepare for conflict. 

One of the most startling examples of 
this readiness crisis is the fact that 
some of our marines have been forced 
to get parts for their F–18s off of planes 
in a museum. That is simply absurd 
and it is deeply troubling. 

Just as bad, less than one-third of 
Army forces are at acceptable readiness 
levels for ground combat and our 
pilots are getting less training than 
many of our adversaries. 

Thankfully, this NDAA stops the 
drawdown of the military and authorizes 
critical funding for the operation 
and maintenance of our military. The 
bill authorizes important funding for 
training, helps rebuild outdated infrastructure, 
and ensures our military 
men and women have the munitions 
they need for ongoing operations. 

The bill also provides for a 2.1 percent 
pay increase for our military. This 
is the largest pay raise for our troops 
in 6 years, and it is especially important 
for our military families. 

Additionally, the bill supports our 
Nation’s military operations around 
the globe. As we fight the Islamic 
State in Iraq and Syria and continue to 
have a presence in Afghanistan, it is 
vital that our military has the tools 
they need to carry out their mission 
and defeat radical Islamic terrorism. 

Just as important, this NDAA provides 
for a continued military presence 

in Europe to support our allies and 
deter Russian aggression, as well as resources 
to support U.S. operations in 
the ever-important Pacific. 

Finally, the NDAA includes some important 
reforms to make our military 
and the Pentagon more effective and 
more efficient. This includes updates 
to the Goldwater-Nichols Act to improve 
the overall organizational structure 
at the Pentagon and throughout 
our military. 

The bill builds upon recent reforms 
to the Pentagon’s acquisition programs 
to cut down on red tape and spur innovation 
and research. 

It also updates the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice to promote accountability 
within our military. 

b 1230 
Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill, but it 
alone will not be enough to fully turn 
the tide back in favor of the fully 
trained, fully capable, and fully 
equipped military that we need. 
Congress and the incoming President 
must act early next year on a funding 
bill to fully fund our military, and we 
need to go above even what is included 
in this bill. As Chairman THORNBERRY 
has indicated, we need to push for a defense 
supplemental that includes important 
military programs that were, 
unfortunately, left out of this final 
bill. 
I look forward to working with 
Chairman THORNBERRY, Ranking Member 
SMITH, the Appropriations Committee, 
and the incoming administration 
to get this funding bill taken care 
of as soon as possible next year because, 
without supplemental funding, 
we will leave the job half done. 
While this is just one step in ensuring 
our military is ready for the fight, 
it is an important one nonetheless; so I 
urge my colleagues to join me in supporting 
this truly bipartisan legislation. 
For the 55th consecutive year, 
let’s send a message to our service-
members that supporting the United 
States military isn’t a Republican goal 
or a Democrat goal—it is an American 
goal. I urge my colleagues to support 
House Resolution 937 and the underlying 
bill. 
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 
(Mr. MCGOVERN asked and was 
given permission to revise and extend 
his remarks.) 
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the gentleman from Alabama 
(Mr. BYRNE) for yielding me the customary 
30 minutes. 
Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of 
the House Armed Services Committee, 
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. THORNBERRY), 
and the honorable ranking 
member, the gentleman from Washington 
(Mr. SMITH), for their service 
and for concluding work on this conference 
report, which authorizes resources 
for our uniformed men and 
women, civilian defense workforce, our 
veterans and their families. 

The defense bill is one of the most 
complex bills that comes each year before 
Congress for consideration and action, 
and I know the hours’—and the 
weeks’—and the months’—worth of 
work that goes into these negotiations 
by staff and Members. It is also, in general, 
a bill that receives broad bipartisan 
support, which is a reflection of 
the leadership, character, and abilities 
of the chairman, of the ranking member, 
and of their staffs. 

Mr. Speaker, there is a great deal to 
support in this conference report and 
some provisions that continue to raise 
concern. Some items that were of grave 
concern have been dropped from the 
final conference report, like the fiscal 
cliff, language that would have authorized 
discrimination by Federal contractors, 
and some anti-environment riders. 


I am very upset, however, that, for 
the second year in a row, the House 
caved to unreasonable Senate demands 
to drop the House-passed provision to 
honor our Atomic Veterans with a simple 
service medal. These uniformed 
men and women literally gave their 
lives in service to our country. In 
many cases, totally unprotected, they 
were exposed to extreme levels of radiation 
during the post-World War II era 
and the subsequent cold war period. Because 
they signed secrecy oaths, they 
could not even inform their doctors 
that their many illnesses might be related 
to radiation exposure. 

They never complained, and they did 
their duty. Their heroism and their 
service have been publicly recognized 
by Presidents George H. W. Bush and 
Bill Clinton. All we are seeking is for 
them to receive a simple service medal. 
More than three out of every four of 
these veterans have already passed 
away unrecognized for their service; 
yet the Senate—and Senate Armed 
Services Committee Chairman JOHN 
MCCAIN and a handful of Pentagon bureaucrats 
in particular—seems to think 
it is a major scandal to provide them 
with a service medal. My meetings 
with some at the Pentagon have been 
particularly troubling because of what 
I have perceived to be their total lack 
of sensitivity and their total lack of 
appreciation for the service that these 
veterans have provided to our country. 

These men and women deserve better 
from their government. I hope, next 
year, when the House, once again, includes 
this bipartisan measure in the 
defense bill, that it won’t be so weak-
kneed as to cave for a third time before 
such unreasonable intransigence. 

This conference report, like its most 
recent predecessors, continues to authorize 
billions of dollars for our wars 
against the Islamic State in Syria, 
Iraq, and elsewhere without any debate 
on an Authorization for Use of Military 
Force in those countries and elsewhere. 

I hope that one of Speaker RYAN’s 
priorities during the first week of January 
will be to meet with President-
elect Trump and work out a timeline 
for when Mr. Trump will send an 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7071 

AUMF to Congress on these wars and 
when the House will finally fulfill its 
constitutional duty to debate and vote 
on this matter. For over 21/2 years, this 
House has failed, time and time again, 
to take up this serious debate even 
after President Obama sent an AUMF 
to Capitol Hill for action. 

Enough is enough. With a Republican 
in the White House, I hope the Republican-
controlled Congress will finally 
do its duty. The cowardice of the 113th 
and 114th Congresses must not be allowed 
to extend into and infect the 
115th Congress. 

Mr. Speaker, I want to say one more 
thing about the NDAA conference report. 


This conference report includes a 
very important title that incorporates 
the Global Magnitsky Human Rights 
Accountability Act. As many of my 
colleagues know, this is a bipartisan 
measure, championed and introduced 
in the House by my friend and colleague, 
Congressman CHRIS SMITH; me; 
and by BEN CARDIN in the United 
States Senate. 

The Global Magnitsky Act builds on 
the seminal Sergei Magnitsky Rule of 
Law Accountability Act, which is legislation 
that I authored that focused on 
Russia, which was approved by Congress 
and signed into law in 2012. That 
law targets individual Russian officials 
who are accountable for the death of 
Russian lawyer Sergei Magnitsky, as 
well as other Russian officials engaged 
in corruption, human rights abuses, or 
who seek to undermine the rule of law. 
It denies them visas to the United 
States and freezes their assets in the 
United States. 

The Global Magnitsky Act will extend 
the use of those same targeted 
sanctions to all countries, not just to 
Russia. It will ensure that visiting the 
United States and having access to our 
financial system, including to U.S. dollars, 
are privileges that should not be 
granted to those officials who violate 
basic human rights and the rule of law. 

Mr. Speaker, as we enter the uncharted 
territory of a Trump administration, 
it is critical that Congress 
maintain its bipartisan leadership and 
support for human rights. It is critical 
that Congress continue to hold accountable 
the Russian Government and 
government officials around the world 
who engage in corruption, human 
rights abuses, and who flout the rule of 
law. 

During the long campaign, two words 
I never heard Mr. Trump utter were 
‘‘human rights.’’ Quite frankly, I was 
disturbed by his public admiration of 
Russian strongman Vladimir Putin, 
whose government has jailed and even 
killed human rights defenders and political 
opponents. 

Mr. Speaker, in past years, I have 
often voted against the final passage of 
the NDAA conference report. In general, 
I can’t vote for a bill that provides 
tens of billions of dollars for wars 
that Congress refuses to debate and authorize. 
I can’t vote for a bill that ties 

the hands of a President—any President—
to shut down the prison at the 

U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay. I 
can’t support a bloated budget that 
fails to make hard choices, that provides 
the Pentagon with even more 
money than it asks for, and that continues 
to increase in size—without 
end—for the foreseeable future. 
However, because of the inclusion of 
the Global Magnitsky Human Rights 
Accountability Act, this year, I will 
vote in support of the FY 2017 NDAA 
conference report. The Global 
Magnitsky Act will give Congress a 
tool with which to hold accountable 
human rights abusers even if our new 
President ends up turning a blind eye. 
This language in this authorization bill 
is important because it sends a signal— 
no matter what our next President believes 
on the issue of human rights— 
that, in this Congress, in a bipartisan 
way, we believe that, if the United 
States of America stands for anything, 
it needs to stand out loud and foursquare 
for human rights. 

I urge all of my colleagues to support 
the conference report notwithstanding 
the many reservations we may have. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 
minutes to the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. COLE), a distinguished member 
of the Rules Committee and a distinguished 
member of the Appropriations 
Committee. 

Mr. COLE. I thank the gentleman 
from Alabama for yielding. Frankly, I 
thank him for the wonderful work he 
provided as a member of the Armed 
Services Committee to bring this legislation 
to the floor today. 

Mr. Speaker, I also want to quickly 
associate myself with my friend from 
Massachusetts’ remarks about the authorization. 
I think he is absolutely 
right on that issue—we have worked 
together on that—and it is something 
that ought to happen. It is an institutional 
question of whether or not we 
retain our war-making authority, and 
he has done admirable work in that 
area. 

The bill, itself, which I support—and, 
of course, the rule and the underlying 
legislation—is a very important piece 
of legislation. 

I commend our friends on the Armed 
Services Committee for working in a 
bipartisan fashion, first, to make sure 
they stop the erosion of the end 
strength of the military. It is an absolutely 
critical thing to do. It could not 
have happened had they not worked together 
and made some tough decisions. 

Second, I want to point out all of the 
reforms in this legislation—procurement 
reforms, in particular. They have 
gone well beyond simply appropriating 
money for the military as they have 
done some important work to put important 
tools in our hands that, I think 
in going forward, will save billions of 
dollars. 

I also commend them for fully funding 
a pay raise for the men and women 

in uniform. That is an important thing. 
The amount of money—a 2.1 percent increase—
is relatively modest but appropriate. 
The more important thing is 
the signal it sends to the men and 
women who put themselves between us 
and harm’s way, and I thank the gentleman 
for his role in that. 

Finally, I want to pick up on one of 
the points that my friend from Alabama 
made that I couldn’t agree with 
more. As important and as good as this 
legislation is, if we do not marry it 
with the money that it takes to actually 
implement it, we are making the 
mistake of a lifetime. In my opinion, 
we could do that, literally, this year if 
we were to do an omnibus; but if we 
fail to do that and if we do a CR, my 
friend is exactly right in that we 
should act as rapidly as possible in 
January to make sure that we actually 
put the money together with the excellent 
authorization work that is done 
here. Otherwise, we simply undercut 
all of the good work of the Armed Services 
Committee. 

This is something that we need to 
focus on. The authorization is important, 
but if we don’t appropriate the 
money, a lot of the hard work that was 
done on the Armed Services Committee 
will be for naught, and it will be for 
naught until we actually make that decision. 
We shouldn’t wait until the end 
of April or the end of May. We ought to 
get it done as quickly as we can. I 
would like to get it done before we go 
home, but if we can’t do that, we certainly 
ought to get it done as quickly 
as we can when we get back. 

With all of that aside, again, I congratulate 
both sides of the aisle. This 
is a model of bipartisanship. My friend 
from Massachusetts mentioned some 
other measures in here with regard to 
Russia that, I think, are absolutely 
also appropriate, and I applaud their 
inclusion. 

I urge every Member to support the 
rule and, certainly, to vote for the underlying 
legislation. 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
3 minutes to the gentleman from New 
York (Mr. ENGEL), the distinguished 
ranking member of the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs. 

Mr. ENGEL. I thank the gentleman 
for yielding to me. 

Mr. Speaker, I support the defense 
authorization bill. Our men and women 
in uniform are the greatest fighting 
force in the world, and they deserve 
our unwavering support. I thank Chairman 
THORNBERRY and Ranking Member 
SMITH for their hard work on this 
year’s effort, but I oppose the rule because 
this bill could be made better not 
by expanding it, but by taking out 
parts that don’t belong there in the 
first place. 

Year after year, Congress has placed 
more and more diplomatic prerogatives 
under the military’s purview. There are 
80 provisions from the House and Senate 
bills in the conference report that 


H7072 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

cross into the jurisdiction of the Foreign 
Affairs Committee. As that committee’s 
ranking member, I am grateful 
to my friend, Mr. SMITH of Washington, 
as we have worked together to 
improve these parts of the bill; but different 
agencies have different responsibilities 
and capabilities. That is why 
different committees oversee these 
issues. 

We would never ask a group of Foreign 
Service Officers to carry out a targeted 
strike on an enemy. That is not 
their job. So why would we assign diplomatic 
functions to those who are already 
handling the tall order of protecting 
and defending us? 

Take the Asia Maritime Security Initiative—
a program seeking greater collaboration 
among our Asian partners 
to solve maritime disputes peacefully. 
This is the sort of effort that our diplomats 
are trained to deal with. It 
takes time and precision and patience 
to develop interest among governments 
and to ramp up capacity; but the Pentagon 
moved ahead without the State 
Department, and the DOD’s approach 
was like performing surgery with a 
hacksaw. 

The Philippines and Vietnam were 
slow to come on board. That is where, 
I believe, careful diplomacy would have 
paid off. Instead, the DOD threw money 
at the problem. The Philippines didn’t 
want the money, and they weren’t 
ready to absorb it; so the effort fell 
apart. Now, in a difficult time in American-
Philippines relations, we have a 
gaping hole in our maritime security 
strategy. This should be a lesson 
learned, but, instead, this bill will put 
even more diplomatic responsibility in 
military hands. 

For instance, the bill diverts Defense 
Department dollars to the Global Engagement 
Center, the GEC. It is a 
State Department program that is focused 
on countering violent extremist 
propaganda overseas. The goal of this 
provision is worthwhile, but the way it 
is written ignores overwhelming advice 
from experts in the field and from our 
public diplomacy officials who are already 
hard at work in Foggy Bottom. 
Instead of building on what we already 
know from years of countering propaganda, 
it says that the DOD should decide 
how much money to give a State 
Department program. Mr. Speaker, 
that is just bad policy, and that example 
just scratches the surface. 

b 1245 
So I support the underlying bill because 
it is good for our military, but I 
don’t support this rule. I did not sign 
the conference report because I have 
deep concerns that the line between 
our military and diplomatic efforts is 
blurring. We will be back here in a 
year, and I hope at that time we will 
pass a defense authorization that deals 
just with defense. 
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared 
to close. 
I reserve the balance of my time. 
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself such time as I may consume. 

I am going to urge my colleagues to 
defeat the previous question. And if we 
defeat the previous question, I will 
offer an amendment to the rule to 
bring up legislation authored by the 
gentlewoman from California (Ms. 
ESHOO), who has been a leader on this 
issue, that would require Presidential 
nominees to disclose 3 years of their 
tax returns. 

Mr. Speaker, tax returns provide the 
public with vital information about our 
Presidential candidates. Have they 
paid taxes at all? Do they keep money 
offshore? Or have they taken advantage 
of tax loopholes? This is important 
information that voters have a 
right to know. The American people 
should expect candidates running for 
President to be open and transparent 
about their tax returns, and this legislation 
would ensure that transparency. 
It is hard for me to believe that giving 
the people the right to know about a 
Presidential candidate’s financial dealings 
is controversial. I hope that this 
isn’t. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent 
to insert the text of the amendment 
in the RECORD, along with extraneous 
material immediately prior to 
the vote on the previous question. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Massachusetts? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, to discuss 
our proposal, I yield 3 minutes to 
the distinguished gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. ESHOO). 

Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to urge all House Members to defeat 
the previous question so that this bipartisan, 
bicameral legislation, the 
Presidential Tax Transparency Act, 
can be made in order for immediate 
floor debate and a vote. 

Now, the legislation is really very 
simple. It requires Presidential nominees 
of major political parties to file 3 
previous years of their Federal tax returns 
with the Federal Election Commission. 
Now, tax returns contain vital 
information. We all know that. But it 
is also vital for the public, for voters, 
to consider. They should be able to 
know whether a candidate has paid 
taxes, if they have paid any taxes, how 
much they have paid, whether they 
have made charitable contributions 
and to whom, and whether they took 
advantage of tax loopholes or offshore 
tax shelters. 

This election year, we experienced a 
bipartisan problem in this area. For 
the first time since 1976, Mr. Trump, 
who is now the President-elect, would 
not release any tax returns to the public 
whatsoever. And on the Democratic 
side, Senator SANDERS only disclosed a 
summary of 1 year of his tax returns. I 
think that these are areas that demonstrate 
themselves to fall far short of 
what the American people deserve in 
terms of transparency. So this legislation 
ensures that the custom of disclosing—
and it has been a custom since 
1976—that they disclose multiple years 

of tax returns and that it be required 
by Federal law for future Presidential 
candidates to do so. 

Former Presidential candidate Mitt 
Romney stated earlier this year that: 
‘‘Tax returns provide the public with 
its sole confirmation of the veracity of 
a candidate’s representations regarding 
charities, priorities, wealth, tax conformance, 
and conflicts of interest.’’ 

One of the Republican cosponsors of 
my bill, Congressman MARK SANFORD, 
wrote in The New York Times in August: 
‘‘The Presidency is the most powerful 
political position on Earth, and 
the idea of enabling the voter the 
chance to see how a candidate has handled 
his or her finances is a central 
part of making sure the right person 
gets the job.’’ 

So I rise today because I believe Congress 
should write this important disclosure 
tradition into law. I urge my 
colleagues to reject the previous question 
so we can hold an immediate vote 
on the Presidential Tax Transparency 
Act. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. 

It is not unusual for me to come 
down here to handle pieces of legislation 
for the Rules Committee that pertain 
to our national defense and find 
myself in a debate about issues that 
have nothing to do with national defense. 
Whatever else you can say about 
the issue about the President or the 
President-elect providing tax returns, 
it has nothing to do with the defense of 
the United States of America. It has 
nothing to do with authorizing what 
the Army, the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force, and the Navy need to defend 
this country. 

So whatever may be the merits of the 
proposal we just heard from the gentlewoman 
from California, it is totally irrelevant 
to the piece of legislation and 
the resolution on the rules before this 
body. So I think that it is an interesting 
argument. Maybe there is another 
time to have it, but this is not 
that time. 

We need to stay focused on what 
needs to be authorized to defend the 
United States of America, and I would 
urge my colleagues to reject the notion 
that we just heard. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
myself the balance of my time. 

Mr. Speaker, let me disagree with my 
distinguished colleague that somehow 
this has nothing to do with national 
defense. I strongly disagree with him 
on that. I think where a Presidential 
candidate or a soon-to-be President has 
financial dealings is related directly to 
our national defense. Does he have investments 
in Russia? Does he have investments 
in countries that have been 
hostile to human rights or to U.S. interests 
in various parts of the world? 
That is very relevant. 

One of the reasons why we are utilizing 
this mechanism of defeating the 
previous question—by the way, if we 
defeat the previous question, we still 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7073 

get to bring up the defense authorization 
conference report. But one of the 
reasons that we do it is because—the 
way this House operates is that, if you 
are in the minority, you don’t get an 
opportunity to get any of your amendments 
made in order or your bills made 
in order, especially bills of any consequence. 
So that is why we are utilizing 
this. This is very relevant to our 
national defense. 

As I said, I normally vote against 
these authorization bills because I 
think they are overbloated. I think 
there are issues concerning the fact 
that we spend billions of dollars on 
wars that we never debate or we don’t 
properly authorize here in the Congress. 


But I am voting for this one because 
of the Global Magnitsky legislation because 
of the human rights provisions. 
Because I don’t know where the head of 
our next President is going to be when 
it comes to standing up to abuses by 
people like Vladimir Putin, against opposition 
leaders and journalists and 
anybody he disagrees with. 

This bill is named after a guy named 
Sergei Magnitsky who, by the way, was 
an accountant in Russia who uncovered 
the largest corruption scandal in Russia’s 
history. What was his reward for 
doing that? Putin had him put in jail. 
He was tortured, and he was beaten to 
death. You know, that is what happens 
in places that are run by strongmen 
like Vladimir Putin. 

So, yeah, I would like to know 
whether or not our next President has 
investments in Russia. I think that 
would be very relevant to know. Quite 
frankly, the reason why this 
Magnitsky legislation is so important 
is it gives us a tool to pressure the next 
administration on the issue of human 
rights, and it is a signal to people like 
Putin and other dictators and 
strongmen around the world that Congress 
is not going to be silent in the 
face of human rights abuses. So I think 
this is all very relevant. 

I would urge my colleagues to vote 
‘‘no’’ on the previous question so we 
can do what I would think most people 
in this country think is noncontroversial, 
which is to have people running 
for President release their tax returns 
so we know. This shouldn’t be a big 
deal. We should do it now, and we have 
an opportunity to do it now and still 
vote on this NDAA bill. I hope that we 
will do that. 

Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD 
a letter from 20 national organizations 
voicing concern about the $3.2 billion 
added to the overseas contingency operations 
account in funds not requested 
by the Pentagon. 

DEAR SENATOR/REPRESENTATIVE: The recently 
released conference report for the Fiscal 
Year 2017 National Defense Authorization 
Act (NDAA) would authorize an additional 
$3.2 billion unrequested by the Pentagon, effectively 
exceeding the spending limits set in 
place previously by Congress as part of the 
Budget Control Act of 2011 and Bipartisan 
Budget Act of 2015. As organizations representing 
Americans across the political 

spectrum, we are writing to voice our disagreement 
with this tactic. 

The very real challenges facing our military 
are not the result of a lack of funds. 
They are the result of years of failing to 
make necessary, tough choices our nation’s 
security requires. If Congress votes to simply 
throw additional billions of dollars at this 
problem by using a budgetary gimmick involving 
the Overseas Contingency Operations 
(OCO) account, you will do nothing to solve 
these problems. Rather, you will simply be 
guaranteeing another year of massive spending 
at the Pentagon. Refusing to make hard 
choices and trade-offs does not strengthen 
our security, it undermines it. 

Earlier this year, many of our organizations 
expressed our opposition to the House 
Armed Services Committee’s draft NDAA 
which included an $18 billion gimmick to 
fund the OCO account above previously 
agreed upon levels. What was a bad idea at 
$18 billion is still a bad idea at $3.2 billion. 
We strongly urge you to scrap any plans to 
fund the OCO account above the levels set in 
existing law and finally pursue a path of fiscal 
responsibility at the Pentagon. 

Sincerely, 

Campaign for Liberty, Center for International 
Policy, Council for a Livable World, 
Council for Citizens Against Government 
Waste, FreedomWorks, Friends Committee 
on National Legislation, Just Foreign Policy, 
National Priorities Project, National 
Taxpayers Union, Peace Action, Project on 
Government Oversight, Taxpayers for Common 
Sense, Taxpayers Protection Alliance, 
Taxpayers United of America, The Libertarian 
Institute, The London Center, United 
for Peace and Justice, Win Without War, 
Women’s Action for New Directions. 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, one of 
my many concerns about this bill—and 
if it wasn’t for the Global Magnitsky 
Human Rights Accountability Act, I 
would be voting against this bill because 
of things like that. 

Vote ‘‘no’’ on the previous question. 
Let the American people know what 
the financial dealings of their Presidential 
candidates and soon-to-be 
Presidents are, and then we get on to 
dealing with passing the National Defense 
Authorization Act. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself 
the balance of my time to close. 

The Presidential election is over. 
Maybe some people would like to relitigate 
the results, but certainly the National 
Defense Authorization Act is not 
the place to do that. So we need to get 
back to the focus of what we are here 
about today, and that is authorizing 
the defense of the United States of 
America. 

I appreciate the gentleman’s support 
for the rule. I appreciate his support, 
which he says is unusual for the underlying 
bill. I also agree with him, as I 
heard the gentleman from Oklahoma 
agree with him, about the need for us 
in the future to address an authorization 
for the use of military force in the 
Middle East. 

I don’t know what the authorization 
is under law for what we are undertaking 
today in Yemen, what we are 
undertaking today in Libya, or what 
we are undertaking today in other 
countries like Somalia. I hope the new 
administration will take a complete 

new look at that and come to us and 
tell us what they think a real strategy 
for success and victory is. Now, that is 
something we could all get together 
and authorize. This is not the piece of 
legislation to address it, and I appreciate 
the fact that my friend is willing 
to drop his concerns about that to support 
it. 

We are here to do one very important 
thing—and it is the most important 
thing that the Congress does—and that 
is to provide for the defense of the 
American people, pure and simple. This 
rule, the underlying legislation, does 
that. 

There is more work to be done at the 
beginning of next year, and I hope and 
am confident that there will be a real 
effort to come back and do that. At 
this point in time, it is important that 
we move forward with this National 
Defense Authorization Act for the 55th 
straight year. 

Mr. Speaker, I again urge my colleagues 
to support House Resolution 
937 and the underlying bill. 

The material previously referred to 
by Mr. MCGOVERN is as follows: 
AN AMENDMENT TO H. RES. 937 OFFERED BY 
MR. MCGOVERN 
At the end of the resolution, add the following 
new sections: 
SEC. 2. Immediately upon adoption of this 
resolution the Speaker shall, pursuant to 
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole 
House on the state of the Union for consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 5386) to amend the 
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to require 
candidates of major parties for the office 
of President to disclose recent tax return 
information. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to 
the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally 
divided among and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Ways and Means and the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee 
on House Administration. After general debate 
the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the five-minute rule. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of 
the bill for amendment the Committee shall 
rise and report the bill to the House with 
such amendments as may have been adopted. 
The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and amendments thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions. If the Committee of the 
Whole rises and reports that it has come to 
no resolution on the bill, then on the next 
legislative day the House shall, immediately 
after the third daily order of business under 
clause 1 of rule XIV, resolve into the Committee 
of the Whole for further consideration 
of the bill. 
SEC. 3. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not 
apply to the consideration of H.R. 5386. 

THE VOTE ON THE PREVIOUS QUESTION: WHAT 

IT REALLY MEANS 

This vote, the vote on whether to order the 
previous question on a special rule, is not 
merely a procedural vote. A vote against ordering 
the previous question is a vote 
against the Republican majority agenda and 
a vote to allow the Democratic minority to 
offer an alternative plan. It is a vote about 
what the House should be debating. 


H7074 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

Mr. Clarence Cannon’s Precedents of the 
House of Representatives (VI, 308–311), describes 
the vote on the previous question on 
the rule as ‘‘a motion to direct or control the 
consideration of the subject before the House 
being made by the Member in charge.’’ To 
defeat the previous question is to give the 
opposition a chance to decide the subject before 
the House. Cannon cites the Speaker’s 
ruling of January 13, 1920, to the effect that 
‘‘the refusal of the House to sustain the demand 
for the previous question passes the 
control of the resolution to the opposition’’ 
in order to offer an amendment. On March 
15, 1909, a member of the majority party offered 
a rule resolution. The House defeated 
the previous question and a member of the 
opposition rose to a parliamentary inquiry, 
asking who was entitled to recognition. 
Speaker Joseph G. Cannon (R-Illinois) said: 
‘‘The previous question having been refused, 
the gentleman from New York, Mr. Fitzgerald, 
who had asked the gentleman to 
yield to him for an amendment, is entitled to 
the first recognition.’’ 

The Republican majority may say ‘‘the 
vote on the previous question is simply a 
vote on whether to proceed to an immediate 
vote on adopting the resolution . . . [and] 
has no substantive legislative or policy implications 
whatsoever.’’ But that is not what 
they have always said. Listen to the Republican 
Leadership Manual on the Legislative 
Process in the United States House of Representatives, 
(6th edition, page 135). Here’s 
how the Republicans describe the previous 
question vote in their own manual: ‘‘Although 
it is generally not possible to amend 
the rule because the majority Member controlling 
the time will not yield for the purpose 
of offering an amendment, the same result 
may be achieved by voting down the previous 
question on the rule. . . . When the 
motion for the previous question is defeated, 
control of the time passes to the Member 
who led the opposition to ordering the previous 
question. That Member, because he 
then controls the time, may offer an amendment 
to the rule, or yield for the purpose of 
amendment.’’ 

In Deschler’s Procedure in the U.S. House 
of Representatives, the subchapter titled 
‘‘Amending Special Rules’’ states: ‘‘a refusal 
to order the previous question on such a rule 
[a special rule reported from the Committee 
on Rules] opens the resolution to amendment 
and further debate.’’ (Chapter 21, section 
21.2) Section 21.3 continues: ‘‘Upon rejection 
of the motion for the previous question 
on a resolution reported from the Committee 
on Rules, control shifts to the Member 
leading the opposition to the previous 
question, who may offer a proper amendment 
or motion and who controls the time for debate 
thereon.’’ 

Clearly, the vote on the previous question 
on a rule does have substantive policy implications. 
It is one of the only available tools 
for those who oppose the Republican majority’s 
agenda and allows those with alternative 
views the opportunity to offer an alternative 
plan. 

Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 
back the balance of my time, and I 
move the previous question on the resolution. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on ordering the previous 
question. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on 

that I demand the yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu


ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro


ceedings on this question will be postponed. 


f 

b 1300 

PERMISSION TO POSTPONE PROCEEDINGS 
ON MOTION TO RECOMMIT 
ON H.R. 6392, SYSTEMIC 
RISK DESIGNATION IMPROVEMENT 
ACT OF 2016 

Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, I 
ask unanimous consent that the question 
of adopting a motion to recommit 
on H.R. 6392 may be subject to postponement 
as though under clause 8 of 
rule XX. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

f 

SYSTEMIC RISK DESIGNATION 
IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2016 

Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, pursuant 
to House Resolution 934, I call up 
the bill (H.R. 6392) to amend the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act to specify when 
bank holding companies may be subject 
to certain enhanced supervision, 
and for other purposes, and ask for its 
immediate consideration. 

The Clerk read the title of the bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 934, the bill is 
considered read. 

The text of the bill is as follows: 
H.R. 6392 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Systemic 
Risk Designation Improvement Act of 2016’’. 

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

The table of contents for the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act (12 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 113 and 
inserting the following: 

‘‘Sec. 113. Authority to require enhanced supervision 
and regulation of certain 
nonbank financial companies 
and certain bank holding 
companies.’’. 

SEC. 3. REVISIONS TO COUNCIL AUTHORITY. 

(a) PURPOSES AND DUTIES.—Section 112 of 
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5322) is 
amended in subsection (a)(2)(I) by inserting 
before the semicolon ‘‘, which have been the 
subject of a final determination under section 
113’’. 
(b) BANK HOLDING COMPANY DESIGNATION.— 
Section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 
U.S.C. 5323) is amended— 
(1) by amending the heading for such section 
to read as follows: ‘‘AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE 
ENHANCED SUPERVISION AND REGULATION 
OF CERTAIN NONBANK FINANCIAL COMPANIES AND 
CERTAIN BANK HOLDING COMPANIES’’; 
(2) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), 
(f), (g), (h), and (i) as subsections (d), (e), (f), 
(g), (h), (i), and (j), respectively; 
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following: 
‘‘(c) BANK HOLDING COMPANIES SUBJECT TO 
ENHANCED SUPERVISION AND PRUDENTIAL 
STANDARDS UNDER SECTION 165.— 

‘‘(1) DETERMINATION.—The Council, on a 
nondelegable basis and by a vote of not fewer 
than 2/3 of the voting members then serving, 
including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson, 
may determine that a bank holding 
company shall be subject to enhanced supervision 
and prudential standards by the Board 
of Governors, in accordance with section 165, 
if the Council determines, based on the considerations 
in paragraph (2), that material financial 
distress at the bank holding company, 
or the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, 
interconnectedness, or mix of the 
activities of the bank holding company, 
could pose a threat to the financial stability 
of the United States. 

‘‘(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In making a determination 
under paragraph (1), the Council 
shall use the indicator-based measurement 
approach established by the Basel Committee 
on Banking Supervision to determine 
systemic importance, which considers— 

‘‘(A) the size of the bank holding company; 

‘‘(B) the interconnectedness of the bank 
holding company; 

‘‘(C) the extent of readily available substitutes 
or financial institution infrastructure 
for the services of the bank holding 
company; 

‘‘(D) the global cross-jurisdictional activity 
of the bank holding company; and 

‘‘(E) the complexity of the bank holding 
company. 

‘‘(3) GSIBS DESIGNATED BY OPERATION OF 
LAW.—Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this subsection, a bank holding company 
that is designated, as of the date of enactment 
of this subsection, as a Global Systemically 
Important Bank by the Financial Stability 
Board shall be deemed to have been 
the subject of a final determination under 
paragraph (1).’’; 

(4) in subsection (d), as so redesignated— 
(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘subsection 
(a)(2) or (b)(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection 
(a)(2), (b)(2), or (c)(2)’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘Subsections 
(d) through (h)’’ and inserting ‘‘Subsections 
(e) through (i)’’; 
(5) in subsections (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), and 
(j)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘subsections (a) and (b)’’ 
each place such term appears and inserting 
‘‘subsections (a), (b), and (c)’’; and 
(B) by striking ‘‘nonbank financial company’’ 
each place such term appears and inserting 
‘‘bank holding company for which 
there has been a determination under subsection 
(c) or nonbank financial company’’; 
(6) in subsection (g), as so redesignated, by 
striking ‘‘subsection (e)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection 
(f)’’; 
(7) in subsection (h), as so redesignated, by 
striking ‘‘subsection (a), (b), or (c)’’ and inserting 
‘‘subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d)’’; and 
(8) in subsection (i), as so redesignated, by 
striking ‘‘subsection (d)(2), (e)(3), or (f)(5)’’ 
and inserting ‘‘subsection (e)(2), (f)(3), or 
(g)(5)’’. 
(c) ENHANCED SUPERVISION.—Section 115 of 
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5325) is 
amended— 
(1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘large, 
interconnected bank holding companies’’ and 
inserting ‘‘bank holding companies which 
have been the subject of a final determination 
under section 113’’; 
(2) in subsection (a)(2)— 
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘; or’’ 
at the end and inserting a period; 
(B) by striking ‘‘the Council may’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘differentiate’’ and inserting 
‘‘the Council may differentiate’’; and 
(C) by striking subparagraph (B); and 
(3) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ‘‘subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 113’’ each place 

December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7075 

such term appears and inserting ‘‘subsections 
(a), (b), and (c) of section 113’’. 

(d) REPORTS.—Section 116(a) of the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5326(a)) is amended 
by striking ‘‘with total consolidated assets 
of $50,000,000,000 or greater’’ and inserting 
‘‘which has been the subject of a final determination 
under section 113’’. 
(e) MITIGATION.—Section 121 of the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5331) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘with 
total consolidated assets of $50,000,000,000 or 
more’’ and inserting ‘‘which has been the 
subject of a final determination under section 
113’’; and 
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘subsection 
(a) or (b) of section 113’’ and inserting 
‘‘subsection (a), (b), or (c) of section 113’’. 
(f) OFFICE OF FINANCIAL RESEARCH.—Section 
155 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 
5345) is amended in subsection (d) by striking 
‘‘with total consolidated assets of 
50,000,000,000 or greater’’ and inserting 
‘‘which have been the subject of a final determination 
under section 113’’. 
SEC. 4. REVISIONS TO BOARD AUTHORITY. 

(a) ACQUISITIONS.—Section 163 of the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5363) is amended by 
striking ‘‘with total consolidated assets 
equal to or greater than $50,000,000,000’’ each 
place such term appears and inserting 
‘‘which has been the subject of a final determination 
under section 113’’. 
(b) MANAGEMENT INTERLOCKS.—Section 164 
of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5364) is 
amended by striking ‘‘with total consolidated 
assets equal to or greater than 
$50,000,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘which has been 
the subject of a final determination under 
section 113’’. 
(c) ENHANCED SUPERVISION AND PRUDENTIAL 
STANDARDS.—Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act (12 U.S.C. 5365) is amended— 
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘with 
total consolidated assets equal to or greater 
than $50,000,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘which 
have been the subject of a final determination 
under section 113’’; 
(2) in subsection (a)(2)— 
(A) by striking ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—’’; and 
(B) by striking subparagraph (B); 
(3) by striking ‘‘subsections (a) and (b) of 
section 113’’ each place such term appears 
and inserting ‘‘subsections (a), (b), and (c) of 
section 113’’; and 
(4) in subsection (j), by striking ‘‘with 
total consolidated assets equal to or greater 
than $50,000,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘which 
has been the subject of a final determination 
under section 113’’. 
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The second 
subsection (s) (relating to ‘‘Assessments, 
Fees, and Other Charges for Certain Companies’’) 
of section 11 of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. 248) is amended— 
(1) by redesignating such subsection as 
subsection (t); and 
(2) in paragraph (2)— 
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘having 
total consolidated assets of $50,000,000,000 
or more;’’ and inserting ‘‘which have been 
the subject of a final determination under 
section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
Reform and Consumer Protection Act; and’’; 
(B) by striking subparagraph (B); and 
(C) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
subparagraph (B). 
SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE; RULE OF APPLICATION. 

(a) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The Financial Stability 
Oversight Council may begin proceedings 
with respect to a bank holding company 
under section 113(c)(1) of the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act, as added by this Act, on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, but may 
not make a final determination under such 
section 113(c)(1) with respect to a bank holding 
company before the end of the 1-year period 
beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act. 

(b) IMMEDIATE APPLICATION TO LARGE BANK 
HOLDING COMPANIES.—During the 1-year period 
described under subsection (a), a bank 
holding company with total consolidated assets 
equal to or greater than $50,000,000,000 
shall be deemed to have been the subject of 
a final determination under section 113(c)(1) 
of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act. 
SEC. 6. EXISTING ASSESSMENT TERMINATION 
SCHEDULE. 

(a) TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF EXISTING ASSESSMENT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each bank holding company 
with total consolidated assets equal to 
or greater than $50,000,000,000 and which has 
not been the subject of a final determination 
under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
(12 U.S.C. 5323) shall be subject to assessments 
by the Secretary of the Treasury to 
the same extent as a bank holding company 
that has been subject to such a final determination. 
(2) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT OF ASSESSMENTS.—
The aggregate amount collected 
pursuant to paragraph (1) from all bank 
holding companies assessed under such paragraph 
shall be $115,000,000. 
(3) EXPEDITED ASSESSMENTS.—If necessary, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall expedite 
assessments made pursuant to paragraph (1) 
to ensure that all $115,000,000 of assessments 
permitted by paragraph (2) is collected before 
fiscal year 2018. 
(4) PAYMENT PERIOD OPTIONS.—The Secretary 
of the Treasury shall offer the option 
of payments spread out before the end of fiscal 
year 2018, or shorter periods including 
the option of a one-time payment, at the discretion 
of each bank holding company paying 
assessments pursuant to paragraph (1). 
(5) ASSESSMENTS TO BE MADE IN ADDITION TO 
ANY OTHER ASSESSMENTS.—The assessments 
collected pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be 
in addition to, and not as a replacement of, 
any assessments required under any other 
law. 
(b) USE OF ASSESSMENTS.—Of the total 
amount collected pursuant to subsection 
(a)— 
(1) $60,000,000 shall be transferred to the Financial 
Stability Oversight Council to pay 
for any administrative costs resulting from 
this Act and the amendments made by this 
Act, of which the Financial Stability Oversight 
Council shall distribute $20,000,000 to 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, $20,000,000 to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, and $20,000,000 
to the general fund of the Treasury; and 
(2) $55,000,000 shall be transferred to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to 
pay for any resolution costs resulting from 
this Act and the amendments made by this 
Act. 
(c) TREATMENT UPON DETERMINATION.—A 
bank holding company assessed under this 
section shall no longer be subject to such assessments 
in the event it is subject to a final 
determination under section 113 of the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5323). Any prior 
payments made by such a banking holding 
company pursuant to an assessment under 
this section shall be nonrefundable. 
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—A bank holding 
company deemed to have been the subject 
of a final determination under section 
113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5323) 
under section 5(b) shall not be subject to assessments 
under subsection (a) solely by operation 
of section 5(b). 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill 
shall be debatable for 1 hour, equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Financial Services. 

After 1 hour of debate, it shall be in 
order to consider the amendment printed 
in part B of House Report 114–839, if 
offered by the Member designated in 
the report, which shall be considered 
read, shall be separately debatable for 
the time specified in the report equally 
divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for a division of 
the question. 

The gentleman from Texas (Mr. HENSARLING) 
and the gentlewoman from 
California (Ms. MAXINE WATERS) each 
will control 30 minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Texas. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, I 
ask unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days in 
which to revise and extend their remarks 
and submit extraneous materials 
on the bill under consideration. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 
6392, the Systemic Risk Designation 
Improvement Act, which is a very important 
bill cosponsored by a bipartisan 
group of Members of the House, 
the text of which was approved by our 
committee with a strong bipartisan 
support of 39–16. 

I thank Chairman LUETKEMEYER, 
chairman of our Subcommittee on 
Housing and Insurance, one of the key 
leaders on our Committee on Financial 
Services, for his leadership and for introducing 
this legislation. He has led 
these efforts valiantly to reform a 
flawed and arbitrary framework used 
by regulators to designate so-called 
systemically important financial institutions, 
also known as SIFIs. Designation, 
Mr. Speaker, anoints these institutions 
as too big to fail, meaning that 
today’s SIFI designations are tomorrow’s 
tax-funded bailouts. 

It is clear that this issue has found, 
again, a fair amount of consensus on 
both sides of the aisle, and this legislation 
represents a very good-faith effort 
by the gentleman from Missouri to 
forge a bipartisan piece of legislation 
that, at the very least, at the minimum, 
would get rid of a totally arbitrary 
and static threshold currently 
used to designate institutions as systemically 
important. 

Mr. Speaker, I speak for many on 
this floor when I say I do not believe in 
the SIFI architecture at all. I think it 


H7076 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

is harmful. I think it is dangerous, and 
clearly it should be replaced by high 
levels of loss-absorbing private capital. 
But that is not what we are debating 
today. 

Today in the 114th Congress, we continue 
to try to find a bipartisan consensus 
to support needed reforms; and, 
again, that is what this bill is: bipartisan. 
It recognizes that regulations 
should consider different components 
of risk and not simply a Washington 
one-size-fits-all definition. 

The current approach—and this is 
very important, Mr. Speaker, as the coauthor 
of the Dodd-Frank Act, himself, 
admits—is a mistake. It is a mistake 
because it fails to take into account 
differences in the various business 
models or systemic risk institutions 
pose to our financial system. In fact, it 
is indisputable that the asset threshold 
used in Dodd-Frank is not based on a 
logical formula, on research, or on any 
evidence at all. Instead, it is simply a 
random number picked out of thin air. 

Concerns with this arbitrary number 
have been recognized, as I just mentioned, 
by none other than former 
Committee on Financial Services 
Chairman Barney Frank, himself. As I 
recall, he is the Frank of Dodd-Frank. 
In testimony before our committee, 
Mr. Speaker, former Chairman Frank 
agreed that the threshold he wrote into 
law was ‘‘arbitrary.’’ He expressed support 
for adjusting it. Then just last 
week, he stated the asset threshold was 
a ‘‘mistake.’’ I hope all Members on the 
other side of the aisle take careful 
note. 

Federal Reserve Board member Dan 
Tarullo has also expressed skepticism, 
as has the Comptroller of the Currency 
Thomas Curry. Even the ranking member, 
the Democrat ranking member of 
the Senate Banking Committee, Senator 
SHERROD BROWN, has stated: ‘‘I do 
agree that some banks above $50 billion 
should not’’—not—‘‘be regulated like 
Wall Street megabanks.’’ 

So what we are trying to do here 
today with this bipartisan bill is trying 
to provide a solution to try to fix a 
generally recognized mistake in Dodd-
Frank, and what those who oppose the 
bill are trying to do is to preserve that 
mistake in the law. Perhaps again, Mr. 
Speaker, some of my colleagues need 
to be reminded that small banks on 
Main Street and even our regional 
banks did not cause the financial crisis, 
and arbitrarily painting big banks 
and small and midsized banks with exactly 
the same broad brush is wrong. It 
is bad policy, and it is bad for our economy. 


So the discussion today, Mr. Speaker, 
should instead focus on the appropriate 
measure of systemic importance and 
the regulatory burden imposed by the 
so-called enhanced prudential standards 
once an institution has been designated. 
By focusing exclusively on 
asset size, you ignore other factors 
that may be more relevant in determining 
whether a financial institution 
should be subject to, again, so-called 

enhanced prudential standards. Furthermore, 
an asset-based approach does 
not capture the types of risk that enhanced 
prudential standards are designed 
to mitigate in the first place. 

By determining risk using activity-
based standards, no matter how flawed 
these standards may be, our regulators 
would be better equipped to differentiate 
between stable activities and 
those that may pose a threat to financial 
stability. It would allow more precision 
in identifying systemic importance, 
while also providing flexibility 
for institutions engaging in more prudent 
lending activities. 

Mr. Speaker, it is just so important 
that we note the effect these regulations 
are having today on the U.S. 
economy. They are harming our economy. 
Instead of helping to capitalize 
small businesses, leading to more jobs 
and opportunity for people who still 
lack both, financial institutions are, 
instead, having to expend capital on 
compliance, compliance that even the 
coauthor of Dodd-Frank admits is a 
mistake. 

Mr. Speaker, regrettably, I need not 
remind us that we remain stuck in the 
slowest and weakest economic recovery 
since the end of World War II. The 
economy simply is not working for 
working Americans. They can’t get 
ahead, and they fear for the future of 
their families. Their paychecks have 
remained stagnant. Their savings have 
declined. The American people deserve 
better. 

I urge adoption of this measure. I 
thank Chairman LUETKEMEYER for his 
leadership in forging this bipartisan 
consensus solution. I urge us to correct 
this Dodd-Frank mistake. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS, 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, November 29, 2016. 

Hon. JEB HENSARLING, 

Chairman, Committee on Financial Services. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN HENSARLING: I am writing 
concerning H.R. 6392, the ‘‘Systemic Risk 
Designation Improvement Act of 2016.’’ This 
legislation contains provisions that fall 
within the Ways and Means Committee’s 
Rule X jurisdiction over revenue. 

I appreciate your willingness to work with 
me on the provisions in my Committee’s jurisdiction. 
In order to allow H.R. 6392 to 
move expeditiously to the House floor, I 
agree not to seek a sequential referral on 
this bill. The Committee on Ways and Means 
takes this action with our mutual understanding 
that by foregoing formal action on 

H.R. 6392, we do not waive any jurisdiction 
over subject matter contained in this or 
similar legislation, and that our Committee 
will be appropriately consulted and involved 
as this bill or similar legislation moves forward. 
Our Committee also reserves the right 
to seek appointment of an appropriate number 
of conferees to any House-Senate conference 
involving this or similar legislation, 
and asks that you support any such request. 
I would appreciate your response to this 
letter confirming this understanding, and 
would request that you include a copy of this 
letter and your response in the Congressional 
Record during the floor consideration 

of this bill. Thank you in advance for your 
cooperation. 
Sincerely, 
KEVIN BRADY, 

Chairman. 

COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES, 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, November 29, 2016. 

Hon. KEVIN BRADY, 

Chairman, Ways and Means Committee. 

DEAR CHAIRMAN BRADY: Thank you for 
your November 29th letter regarding H.R. 
6392, the ‘‘Systemic Risk Designation Improvement 
Act of 2016.’’ 

I am most appreciative of your decision to 
forego action on H.R. 6392 so that it may 
move expeditiously to the House floor. I acknowledge 
that although you are waiving action 
on the bill, the Ways and Means Committee 
is in no way waiving its jurisdictional 
interest in this or similar legislation. In addition, 
if a conference is necessary on this 
legislation, I will support any request that 
your committee be represented therein. 

Finally, I shall be pleased to include your 
letter and this letter on H.R. 6392 in the Congressional 
Record during floor consideration 
of the same. 

Sincerely, 

JEB HENSARLING, 

Chairman. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time 
as I may consume. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong 
opposition to H.R. 6392. This is the first 
step in the Trump agenda to deregulate 
Wall Street, despite candidate Trump’s 
pledges to hold elite bankers accountable. 
In fact, as we debate this bill 
today, Trump Tower’s revolving door is 
spinning with Wall Street insiders. 

Yes, in a skyscraper in midtown 
Manhattan, Trump and his transition 
team are plotting their agenda to 
weaken financial reform and bring us 
back to the precrisis Wild West days 
when banks could gamble with taxpayer 
money. Bank stocks are up on 
news of gifts to come, and newspaper 
headlines are already documenting Republicans’ 
aggressive plans. 

In fact, President-elect Trump just 
announced that he will nominate Steven 
Mnuchin, a former Goldman Sachs 
executive who now sits on the board of 
the megabank CIT, to be his Treasury 
Secretary. Mr. Mnuchin’s bank is just 
one of 27 banks that stands to benefit 
directly from this legislation. Though 
CIT crashed—that is the bank—and 
went bankrupt during the crisis because 
of high-risk commercial lending 
and subprime loans, somehow Mr. 
Mnuchin still managed to sign an employment 
deal, handing him $4.5 million 
a year in 2016. I suppose passing 
this legislation is just the Republican 
Congress’ way of giving him a signing 
bonus for coming into government. 

We enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act in response to the stunning 
greed and regulatory failures in our financial 
system; and yet, with this bill, 
the Republicans are displaying a staggering 
degree of historical amnesia. 

b 1315 
This bill is the epitome of that dangerous 
agenda, with H.R. 6392 gutting 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7077 

our banking regulators’ oversight of 
$4.5 trillion in banking assets, or approximately 
30 percent of the industry 
currently subject to enhanced rules. 

Make no mistake. This bill is not 
about helping the community banks 
because 99 percent of our country’s 
community banks and credit unions 
are already exempt from most rules in 
Dodd-Frank. So I don’t want anybody 
to come out here saying: we are helping 
the community banks. This has 
nothing to do with the community 
banks. This is about deregulating the 
big banks over $50 billion. 

It is also not about tailoring regulations 
for regional banks. Wall Street 
reform already required that, and the 
Federal Reserve is already taking steps 
to do so. No, this bill is about a wholesale 
regulatory exemption for just 27 of 
the biggest banks in America—banks 
with $100 billion, $200 billion, and even 
$400 billion in assets. 

Many of the types of banks that 
would benefit from this bill failed spectacularly 
during the financial crisis. In 
fact, large bank holding companies 
with more than $50 billion in assets received 
twice as much bailout money 
per dollar than banks with less than $50 
billion in assets. 

Contrary to the talking points from 
the other side of the aisle, these 
megaregional banks are not just big 
community banks. No, these regional 
banks are some of the worst players in 
predatory, subprime lending leading up 
to the financial crisis. They have 
preyed on minority and rural communities 
and have passed the buck onto 
taxpayers when their bets failed. 

Remember Countrywide, a $200 billion 
thrift? They were the number 
three subprime mortgage originator 
and number one issuer of mortgage 
bonds in 2006. They are a poster child of 
the crisis. 

Remember Washington Mutual, with 
$300 billion in assets, whose hometown 
paper, The Seattle Times, described as 
‘‘predatory’’? 

Remember Wachovia, with their exotic 
‘‘pick-a-payment’’ mortgage 
loans? Remember in October of 2008, 
when they posted a $24 billion quarterly 
loss and the FDIC had to facilitate 
a midnight acquisition by Wells 
Fargo? 

Remember New Century, 
AmeriQuest, or Option One? This bill 
would enable more blowups like these. 

H.R. 6392 would repeal Dodd-Frank’s 
$50 billion threshold above which banks 
are subject to closer regulatory scrutiny 
and prevent the Federal Reserve 
Board from regulating these banks. Instead, 
it would hand over that responsibility 
to what is known as FSOC, the 
Financial Stability Oversight Council. 
In order to regulate the banks, the 
FSOC would have to go through a Byzantine 
and litigious process of designation, 
which takes 2 to 4 years to complete. 
This would give them plenty of 
time to go back to the old ways that 
Dodd-Frank is trying to prevent. Even 
if a potential Treasury Secretary 

Mnuchin decided to regulate his former 
employer, by the time he got around to 
it, the damage would likely already be 
done. 

It is also significant to note that Republicans 
have repeatedly tried to dismantle 
the FSOC and its existing designation 
authority for large nonbanks. 
They have called the Council ‘‘unconstitutional,’’ 
introduced bills to make 
it harder for the FSOC to do its job, 
and helped companies like MetLife 
fight its designation in court. 

What is more, Chairman HENSARLING’s 
sweeping Wall Street deregulation 
bill, the ‘‘Wrong Choice Act,’’ 
would repeal this exact same designation 
authority altogether. 

Why is the majority even considering 
this bill today when the chairman’s 
Wall Street reform repeal package 
would render this bill moot? It is clear 
that this is just the first act in a long, 
dangerous play that will continue well 
into next year. I, therefore, urge my 
colleagues to join me in opposing this 
harmful bill. 

Mr. Speaker, as I said when I took 
the floor to debate this bill, this is the 
first act in Trump’s promise that he is 
going to deregulate, his promise that 
he is going to get rid of Dodd-Frank, 
his promise that he is going to get rid 
of the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau, and his promise that he is 
going to, in essence, turn all of this 
back over to Wall Street. 

Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time. 

Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself 5 seconds just to say, if 
the ranking member believes this is 
the first act in getting rid of Dodd-
Frank, she ain’t seen nothing yet. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. SESSIONS), 
the distinguished chairman of the 
House Rules Committee, and I thank 
him for his leadership in helping bring 
this bill to the floor. 

Mr. SESSIONS. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
my dear colleague from Dallas for not 
only yielding, but I want to commend 
him in working with his committee, including 
the gentleman from Missouri 
(Mr. LUETKEMEYER), on this awesome 
legislation. 

Mr. Speaker, the point is simple: 
Washington has once again gotten in 
the way of legitimate business and is 
harming the American people, the 
American economy, and job growth in 
this country by imposing unnecessary 
and burdensome compliance costs on 
medium-sized banks all across America. 


Asset thresholds, regardless of how 
high or low, are disincentives to 
growth. There will always be an institution 
that lies somewhere that is 
slightly above or below some threshold, 
but the bottom line is that arbitrary 
numbers tell us very little about the 
risk that is actually involved. It is the 
risk to institutions in America that we 
should be talking about. 

So, simply put, the SIFI designation 
is arbitrary. It simply subjects smaller 

banks to the same standards as trillion-
dollar, globally systematic organizations, 
which is something that would 
only make sense here in Washington. 

The bottom line is, it is an impediment 
to free economic growth, and it is 
an impediment that is burdening not 
only our banks but consumers also. 

I commend Congressman LUETKEMEYER 
for advancing this important, 
commonsense regulation. By the way, 
it has taken several years to get here. 

We now understand that the American 
economy can move in the right direction. 
The American economy, with 
good and proper leadership, not only in 
Washington but by the rules and regulations 
that are balanced, will help 
United States families, small businesses, 
and specifically smaller banks 
be more competitive to offer the services 
that are necessary. 

I commend the young chairman of 
the Financial Services Committee, Mr. 
HENSARLING, for allowing this bill to 
come here today. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Mr. Speaker, Democrats, small town 
America, Rust Belt America, you just 
heard what he said. Mr. HENSARLING 
just said: You ain’t seen nothing yet. 
You heard it coming out of his mouth 
as they stand here and defend deregulation 
of these big banks. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Texas (Mr. AL GREEN) 
a member of the Financial Services 
Committee. 

Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, 
I think it appropriate to reflect for 
just a moment on what the crisis was 
like in 2008. 

In 2008, when this crisis hit and it 
started to blossom, started to blow up, 
banks would not lend to each other. 
The crisis was so serious that banks 
would not bail each other out. 

We had a circumstance such that 
people were losing their homes. They 
were losing their homes because of 
these so-called exotic products that allowed 
them to buy homes that they 
could not afford, homes that would 
allow them to have a teaser rate that 
would coincide with a prepayment penalty 
such that they couldn’t get out of 
the rate that was to follow, which was 
going to be higher than they can afford. 


Mr. Speaker, this bill, H.R. 6392, 
should be appropriately named the 
‘‘Systemic Risk Creation Act,’’ because 
that is what it does. It creates the opportunity 
for systemic risk to exist, 
and it puts us back where we were before 
Dodd-Frank such that these various 
banks and lending institutions and 
other institutions of great amount of 
finance would be in a position to fail 
without our having the opportunity to 
immediately act upon them, as was the 
case with AIG. There was no system in 
place to deal with the AIGs of the 
world. 

Dodd-Frank allows us to do this in a 
systemic way, a systematic way, an orderly 
way. It allows us to, if we need 
to, wind down these huge institutions— 


H7078 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

wind them down such that they don’t 
create harm to the broader economy. 

I want you to know, Mr. Speaker, for 
those who think that these are all 
small banks, let me just give you some 
indication as to how small they are. I 
am looking now at the top five of the 
27 in question. The top five: 

Number five is $217 billion. 

Number four, $255 billion. 

Number three, $278 billion. 

Number two, $350 billion. 

Number one, $433 billion. 

Only in the Congress of the United 
States of America would this be considered 
small change. 

We must not allow this deregulation 
to take place such that we put the economic 
order at risk again. This bill, 
Dodd-Frank, when it passed, allowed us 
to look at the entire economic order 
and to determine whether or not there 
were institutions that were a systemic 
risk to the economic order. Prior to 
Dodd-Frank, they were all siloed. Prior 
to Dodd-Frank, we had long-term capital. 
Long-term capital was the first 
canary in the coal mine. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Mr. Speaker, I yield the gentleman an 
additional 30 seconds. 

Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Long-term 
capital had its demise in 1998. It was a 
canary in the coal mine. Bear Stearns 
followed, as well as IndyMac, Countrywide, 
and WaMu. They followed in 2008. 

We didn’t have a system that allowed 
us to recognize these canaries in the 
coal mine and take affirmative action. 
This is what Dodd-Frank does. This is 
what FSOC does. And it would be a severe 
mistake to vote for legislation to 
repeal these bills. We are going to live 
to regret this vote. Those who vote to 
repeal will live to regret it. 

Mr. HENSARLING. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield myself 10 seconds to say I appreciate 
the passion of my colleagues on 
the other side of the aisle and their 
concern for taxpayers and systemic 
risk. So I certainly look forward to 
their cosponsorship of our legislation 
to get rid of Dodd-Frank’s taxpayer-
funded bailout fund. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 31/2 minutes to 
the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. 
LUETKEMEYER), a real leader on our 
committee and the author of H.R. 6392, 
the Systemic Risk Designation Improvement 
Act. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, 
today, the House will consider H.R. 
6392, the Systemic Risk Designation 
Improvement Act of 2016, legislation to 
address an inefficient regulatory structure 
by accounting for actual risk, 
rather than asset size alone, in the designation 
of systemically important financial 
institutions, or SIFIs. 

Under the current regulatory framework 
for the designation of SIFIs, any 
bank holding company with more than 
$50 billion in assets is subject to enhanced 
regulatory supervision and special 
assessments. This approach fails to 
take into account differences in busi


ness models or risk imposed to the financial 
system. It has real-world implications, 
too, stunting economic 
growth and limiting access to credit. 

The risk of a traditional bank is not 
the same as an internationally active, 
complex firm. H.R. 6392 would remove 
the completely arbitrary approach and 
replace it with analysis of actual risk 
imposed to the financial system. 

b 1330 
More specifically, my legislation 
would require regulators to examine 
not just size, but also interconnectedness, 
the extent of readily available 
substitutes, global cross-jurisdictional 
activity, and complexity of each bank 
holding company. These are metrics 
that are presently being used by the 
Financial Stability Board and the Office 
of Financial Research to determine 
what a G-SIFI is, a Global Systemically 
Important Financial Institution. 
This bill number may be new, but the 
concept is not. With the exception of 
the offset language contained in section 
6 of this bill, H.R. 6392 is identical 
to H.R. 1309, which was the legislation 
I introduced last year that attracted 
broad bipartisan support and garnered 
135 cosponsors. 
Even Dodd-Frank’s author, the 
former chairman of the Financial Services 
Committee, Barney Frank, said 
this issue needs to be addressed. During 
a November 20 radio interview, Chairman 
Frank said: ‘‘We put in there that 
banks got the extra supervision if they 
were $50 billion in assets. That was a 
mistake.’’ 
Chairman Frank further went on to 
say: ‘‘When it comes to lending and job 
creation, the regional banks are obviously 
very, very important. I hope that 
if we get some regulatory changes, we 
give some regulatory relaxation to 
those banks.’’ 
Chairman Frank testified to that effect—
and this is a picture of him in 
front of our committee—and expressed 
support for our bill back in 2014. This 
week we have the opportunity to remedy 
this oversight. 
This legislation will not impact the 
authority of the regulatory agencies to 
oversee institutions. It will, however, 
encourage enhanced and more appropriate 
oversight of institutions that 
could actually have a greater impact 
on the overall economy, financial system, 
and, most importantly, consumers. 
Mr. Speaker, this is a bill to take a 
more pragmatic approach to financial 
regulation. Mr. Speaker, it is time to 
actually manage risk and limit threats 
to our financial system. 
I want to thank my colleagues for 
their work on this legislation, namely, 
Mr. MURPHY, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. SCOTT, 
Mr. WILLIAMS, Ms. SEWELL, Mr. HILL, 
and Ms. SINEMA, and ask my colleagues 
for their support today. And a special 
thanks to Chairman HENSARLING for 
his tireless support for efforts on this 
bill. 
Just one moment, if I could, to address 
a couple of comments that were 

made earlier. We are talking about systemically 
important financial institutions, 
and the definition of a SIFI is it 
has got to be something that is going 
to cause the economy to go down. A $50 
billion bank is going to be something 
that may be important to a local economy, 
but it is not going to be something 
important to the entire economy. 
This is what we are talking about. 

Big banks have big problems. Medium-
sized banks do not affect the systemic 
concern that we should have 
about the economy, and this is where 
this bill is directed. Somebody who 
doesn’t understand that, I think they 
are missing the point. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. HENSARLING. I yield the gentleman 
an additional 30 seconds. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. So I think 
even the ranking member made my 
point a while ago when she said 27 
banks, a total of $4.6 trillion. We have 
got a half dozen banks over $1 trillion, 
so we are talking about some small 
banks that are really going to have a 
small impact with regard to if they 
went down or not. 

That is what the purpose of this legislation, 
Dodd-Frank, was about: to 
stop the big guys from bringing the 
whole economy down. The ranking 
member, with all due respect, misses 
the entire point of what Dodd-Frank is 
supposed to be and what the intent of 
this bill is. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Mr. Speaker, while the other side 
fights for the big banks and we over 
here are fighting for the consumers, let 
me just say that Mr. Frank has not 
supported H.R. 6392, and you need to 
stop saying that. 

I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman 
from Washington (Mr. HECK), a member 
of the Financial Services Committee. 

Mr. HECK of Washington. Mr. Speaker, 
I have a little different take on this. 
I oppose this bill. In fact, I strongly oppose 
it, but I don’t exactly oppose the 
idea at all. Let me explain that. 

The Dodd-Frank legislation was written, 
as we all know, during a period of 
financial crisis, and legislators and 
regulators had to act quickly. Sometimes, 
when you have to act quickly, 
you take shortcuts to get the financial 
system stabilized. But today, the difference 
is we have the luxury of time 
to go back and replace those shortcuts 
with some more deliberative decision-
making. 

Now, Dodd-Frank said that every 
bank holding company over $50 billion 
gets heightened supervision. Well, 
frankly, back then, for stabilizing a financial 
crisis, that was a great way to 
move quickly and to get it done and to 
bring about the intended result. But 
again, for making policy over the long 
term, that doesn’t make sense because, 
in fact, it is an arbitrary-size threshold. 
So it was a shortcut that made 
sense at the time, and I join with you 
in supporting a reevaluation of that 
particular threshold level. That is the 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7079 

idea of this bill, and I support the bill— 
or support the idea. But, again, I don’t 
support this bill at all because, instead 
of taking the luxury of time to make 
good policy, frankly, it acts like we are 
still back in that crisis, and we are 
taking another shortcut. 

The bill says FSOC should determine 
which banks need heightened supervision, 
and that is a great idea. That is 
what they are there for. And then it 
says FSOC has to complete all of its 
work on all of the banks within 12 
months. That is a terrible idea. That is 
a terrible idea. 

The last determination that FSOC 
took lasted 16 months, and they were 
working on one company at the time— 
and it took 16 months. And even then, 
the judge said: You took 16 months, 
and you acted too rashly and should 
have deliberated more. But this bill 
says only 12 months are allowed. And it 
is not just one company they would be 
looking at. It could be up to 40 companies 
with over $50 billion in assets. 

So I would say to my friend from 
Missouri, I think you have a good idea. 
I wish you would have brought a bill 
reflecting that idea out here. 

Let’s remember that Bear Stearns 
was $400 billion; it contributed. Washington 
Mutual, $300 billion; it contributed. 
All of those banks are going to be 
in one pot that have 12 months to be 
looked at. We are, in fact, gutting 
Dodd-Frank; and, no, I do not agree 
with my friend from Texas, the chairman, 
that that is a good idea at all. 

The authors kind of recognized this, 
which is why they said banks get 
heightened supervision if FSOC says so 
or if the Financial Stability Board in 
Basel, Switzerland, says so. I don’t 
know why we would cede sovereignty. I 
have been working with the gentleman 
from Missouri on exactly that issue as 
it relates to insurance companies. Why 
are we ceding our sovereignty to some 
regulatory entity in another country? 

So I do take a different view of this 
bill. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
I yield an additional 30 seconds to the 
gentleman. 

Mr. HECK of Washington. I urge my 
colleagues to support the idea by rejecting 
this bill which will not achieve 
the intended result because it can’t 
work. But the idea can. Go back. Put 
in a reasonable timeframe. Drop that 
crazy FSB provision, and let the regulators 
get to work looking for the risks 
that devastated the economy a decade 
ago so we don’t have to relive that. If 
we pass this bill, we very well may. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
JODY B. HICE of Georgia). Without objection, 
the gentleman from Missouri 
(Mr. LUETKEMEYER) will control the remainder 
of the time of the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. HENSARLING). 

There was no objection. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Texas (Mr. NEUGEBAUER), the chair of 

the Financial Institutions and Consumer 
Credit Subcommittee, who is set 
to retire shortly, and whose expertise 
and hard work we are going to miss; 
but his guidance over these years has 
certainly given us a lesson on how to 
get things done. And we certainly hope 
that he will have a great retirement. 

Mr. NEUGEBAUER. I thank the gentleman 
for those kind words. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support 
of H.R. 6392, offered by my good friend 
from Missouri (Mr. LUETKEMEYER). 

H.R. 6392, known as the Systemic 
Risk Designation Improvement Act, is 
bipartisan legislation that ensures that 
the Federal Government takes a 
thoughtful and comprehensive approach 
when evaluating the financial 
stability concerns posed by U.S. bank 
holding companies. 
Under H.R. 6392, the bank holding 
companies will no longer be measured 
by their size alone when evaluated for 
the application of heightened prudential 
standards. Instead, the Financial 
Stability Oversight Council will use a 
metrics-based approach that takes into 
consideration the totality of the bank 
holding company’s operations. Using 
this framework, bank holding companies 
will be measured on size, complexity, 
their interconnectedness, 
cross-jurisdictional activity, and available 
substitutes. 

This approach is similar to the 
framework used by the international 
body known as the Financial Stability 
Board, which designates global systemically 
important banks. Further, it is 
the framework already being used by 
the Federal Reserve when it evaluates 
financial stability concerns stemming 
from bank mergers. 

Mounting evidence coming from regulators 
and academics have highlighted 
the flaws in using a size-only 
approach to measuring systemic risk. 
Further, several democratically appointed 
regulators have noted the flaws 
with Dodd-Frank’s threshold of $50 billion 
in assets. 

Put simply, many bank holding companies 
are being subjected to enhanced 
regulatory requirements for no sound 
policy reasons. That results in restricted 
lending, decreased services to 
customers, and inefficiencies in the 
marketplace. 

We must strive to ensure that the 
government policy is thoughtful and 
properly calibrated. H.R. 6392 is absolutely 
necessary to ensure that we 
meet those principles. 

I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ 
for H.R. 6392. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. FOSTER), 
a member of the Financial Services 
Committee. 

Mr. FOSTER. I thank Ranking Member 
WATERS for yielding. 
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to 

H.R. 6392, the Systemic Risk Designation 
Improvement Act of 2016. Although 
many aspects of this bill have 
sound arguments behind them, it contains 
fatal flaws which should preclude 
our support. 

The financial crisis taught us many 
things about our markets and overturned 
some fairly fundamental assumptions 
that were widely held prior 
to it. One of the things we learned was 
the extent to which systemic risk 
could build up in a regulatory paradigm 
that was focused entirely on entity 
risk. It was quickly evident that the 
failure of a large institution posed a 
greater threat than previously believed. 


At the same time the phrase ‘‘too big 
to fail’’ became public shorthand for 
some of these firms, economists and 
other experts talked about another important 
aspect, too interconnected to 
fail. 

Asset size is a quick and useful metric 
for determining whether a firm is 
potentially so large that a failure could 
have a massive impact on systemwide 
stability, and evaluating the risks that 
single institutions can pose to the system 
often require a more nuanced approach. 


The exposure of counterparties to a 
failing firm or exposures of other institutions 
to the same risks are systemic 
risk factors that should rightly be considered. 
Also, as the economy grows, 
many fixed thresholds, such as $50 billion, 
will shrink in importance. At the 
very least, the importance given to any 
asset size threshold needs to be periodically 
reconsidered in the scope of an 
economic indicator like GDP. Wherever 
the line is drawn, it should reflect 
the macroeconomic factors that the 
bank is nested in. 

Moreover, there is anecdotal evidence 
that firms will avoid growth— 
meaning, cutting back in lending—as 
they approach any fixed threshold. I 
see this as a market distortion that reflects 
risks of increasing concentration 
rather than prudent risk management. 
I see this concern with nearly any fixed 
threshold for being deemed a SIFI. 

However, I think that a nuanced, 
weighted process that gives deference 
to the expertise of regulatory agencies 
is appropriate. Drawing lines to determine 
which firms warrant additional 
scrutiny will always be a difficult process. 
To the extent that the bill we consider 
today looks to other factors that 
a strong Financial Stability Oversight 
Council with adequate resources and 
leadership should consider, I believe 
that this is a good start. 

I do think that there are improvements 
to be made in the designation 
threshold, but I think this bill has two 
core problems that prevent my support. 


First, legislation to change the 
threshold should give sufficient specific 
direction that it would not move 
with changes to the political leadership 
of the FSOC. The concentration of an 
effective veto power in the hands of a 
single political appointee basically aggravates 
that concern tremendously. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 


H7080 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
I yield the gentleman an additional 30 
seconds. 

Mr. FOSTER. Second, thorough analysis 
of the institutions presently categorized 
as SIFIs but not G-SIBs requires 
more than a year. The bill today 
rightly looks to characteristics that 
are important in assessing systemic 
risk, but it does not provide predictability 
or an adequate transition period. 


The most recent financial crisis saw 
the failure of institutions of a variety 
of sizes, but, for example, the savings 
and loan crisis was the simultaneous 
failure of many smaller firms. 

I support an approach that looks at 
many different factors and gives discretion 
to a strong, well-resourced 
FSOC to designate forms based on objective 
characteristics of the firm so 
we can prevent another crisis. However, 
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ 
on H.R. 6392 because it does not set up 
the thoughtful framework we need. 

b 1345 
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, 
may I inquire as to the amount of time 
remaining on both sides, please? 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Missouri has 15 minutes 
remaining. The gentlewoman from 
California has 103/4 minutes remaining. 
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. HUIZENGA), chairman of 
the Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee. 
He is obviously one of the 
greater, deeper thinkers on our committee 
from the standpoint of being 
able to handle that sort of subcommittee. 
It is certainly an honor to 
have him with us today. 
Mr. HUIZENGA of Michigan. Mr. 
Speaker, I appreciate my fellow subcommittee 
chairman who has written a 
great piece of legislation here. 
We all have been talking about Dodd-
Frank creating this Financial Stability 
Oversight Council, or FSOC, which was 
charged with monitoring systemic risk 
in the U.S. financial sector and coordinating 
regulatory responses by its 
member agencies—a good goal, but an 
idea gone bad, unfortunately. 
FSOC designates these banking companies 
with over $50 billion in assets, 
they are automatically considered systemically 
important financial institutions, 
and the act subjects those institutions 
to enhanced regulatory standards. 
Here is the issue, Mr. Speaker: this is 
not about Wall Street banks. This is 
really affecting and hitting Main 
Street banks. The SIFI designation 
really is arbitrary, and it subjects 
these companies with those assets. 
Which, don’t get me wrong, $50 billion 
is a lot of money. However, if you look 
at the totality of our financial institutions, 
it is actually quite small. It suddenly 
says that they are globally now 
systemically important that, if this 
particular bank or company went out 
of business, we could take down the 
whole economy. It is just ludicrous. 

The process that FSOC uses to designate 
these institutions is flawed in 
its current design and lacks the transparency 
and accountability that the 
American taxpayers deserve and, 
frankly, expect. 

In fact, the former Financial Services 
chairman, Barney Frank, under 
which Dodd-Frank is named, even 
agreed that the $50 billion SIFI threshold 
that he wrote into law and that the 
Senate wrote into law was ‘‘arbitrary.’’ 
Maybe 75 was too big and 25 was too 
small, so they settled on 50. There is no 
basis as to why that number was 
picked. I couldn’t agree more with that 
former chairman. 

This bill, H.R. 6392, the Systemic 
Risk Designation Improvement Act, is 
a bipartisan bill that passed out of our 
committee 39–16 with eight Democrats 
joining the majority, and it would require 
instead that FSOC use an indicator-
based measurement that has five 
different operational indicators. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield the gentleman an additional 30 
seconds. 

Mr. HUIZENGA of Michigan. Those 
five operational indicators are size, 
interconnectedness, complexity, cross-
jurisdictional activity, and available 
substitutes. Therefore, what is happening 
is we are seeing fewer products 
and services available to bank customers 
because these banks are having 
to pour more additional resources that 
could go towards servicing those customers 
into a regulation that isn’t 
doing anything to protect our economy. 


That ultimately needs to be our goal. 
Our goal here needs to make sure that 
we restore transparency by allowing 
regulators to review all of the circumstances 
surrounding that and not 
have a Washington, D.C.-driven one-
size-fits-all approach. 

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to 
support this important bill. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Mr. Speaker, it was just said that this 
is affecting Main Street. It is not. All 
that passion you see on the other side 
is about the big banks, not about community 
banks. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. SARBANES), 
who is a member of the Energy 
and Commerce Committee and a strong 
advocate for the protection of Wall 
Street reform. 

Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Speaker, I 
thank the gentlewoman for yielding. 

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose 
this legislation, but I also want to 
speak to the millions of Americans of 
all political stripes who want Washington 
to change, who want to reclaim 
their voice in their democracy, and 
who long, actually, for the interests of 
Main Street to be put ahead of the interests 
of Wall Street. 

Unfortunately, Washington hasn’t 
heard you, America. The system is still 
rigged and the swamp is only getting 

deeper. Special interest lobbyists are 
sharpening their knives in advance of 
the new Congress, and President-elect 
Trump’s administration is ready to 
carve up the Tax Code for their benefit 
and eliminate oversight of Wall Street. 

In fact, bank stocks are surging now 
with Wall Street giddy at the prospect 
of tossing out critical rules and regulations 
designed to prevent another financial 
collapse and taxpayer bailout. 

As one Wall Street analyst put it immediately 
after the election: ‘‘Everything 
is in play.’’ 

Or maybe we should just use Mr. 
HENSARLING’s words: ‘‘You ain’t seen 
nothing yet.’’ 

If you need further proof that special 
interests and the Wall Street elite will 
be empowered in the new Congress and 
administration, look no further than 
President-elect Trump’s nomination 
for the Treasury Department: Steve 
Mnuchin—a billionaire hedge fund 
manager, former Goldman Sachs executive 
and bank CEO. President-elect 
Trump, a supposed champion of the 
working class, now seeks to appoint a 
financier who, like Trump, personally 
profited on the financial ruin of hardworking 
Americans. 

What does this have to do with the 
bill we have before us, you may ask? 

Well, a lot. Today, before the new 
President is even seated and Steven 
Mnuchin is even confirmed, H.R. 6392 
will dramatically upend sensible oversight 
of some of the Nation’s largest 
banks, many of which were directly implicated 
in the financial collapse of 
2008. 

Taxpayers lose under this legislation, 
but guess who stands to benefit from 
it? 

Steve Mnuchin. He serves on the 
board of the bank CIT, receiving a salary 
of $4.5 million. CIT is one of only 27 
banks in the country that will benefit 
from this terrible legislation. What is 
more, under this legislation, Mnuchin, 
if confirmed, will be in charge of overseeing 
the replacement designation 
process for CIT and the other 26 large 
regional banks rewarded by this legislation. 


Mr. Speaker, this legislation and the 
nomination of Steve Mnuchin is a direct 
rebuke of President-elect Trump’s 
promise to ‘‘drain the swamp.’’ The 
only thing cleaner about the swamp is 
that the alligators will be wearing 
suits and ties. 

Millions of Americans of all political 
stripes are hurting. They want a more 
representative democracy. They want 
public policy designed for the public interest, 
not the special interests. They 
want a fair shake. Let’s show them we 
are still fighting for them. Let’s defeat 
this Wall Street giveaway. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 21/2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Wisconsin (Mr. DUFFY), who is the 
chairman of the Oversight and Investigations 
Subcommittee. He is one of 
our toughest guys on the committee. 
He has got one of the toughest committees 
to be able to go after some of the 
issues that we are working on. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7081 

Mr. DUFFY. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
Chairman LUETKEMEYER for all his 
hard work on what I think is an excellent 
bill. It is fascinating to sit in this 
Chamber and listen to the debate and 
the fear-mongering that takes place. 

Before I get into that, let’s just take 
a trip down memory lane. We have to 
look at the financial crisis and what 
the Democrats chose to do, the idea 
that you can’t let any good crisis go to 
waste. There is a financial crisis, so we 
go to our file cabinets, we open them 
up, and every progressive, liberal idea 
we take out and put them into Dodd-
Frank—a 2,300-page bill, a bill that was 
written before the Financial Crisis Inquiry 
Commission even came out with 
their report on the cause of the crisis. 

This is a very, very simple tweak. 
Right now we have designations for 
systemically risky banks at a set assets 
threshold of $50 billion. Let me tell 
you what, I have banks in Wisconsin. 
They are small, regional banks—not 
Wall Street banks—that are getting 
crushed by these new rules and regulations. 


So all we are saying to my friends 
across the aisle is: You love the regulators. 
You think that the regulators 
are awesome. 

We are trying to empower the regulators 
to look at the facts on the 
ground and to look at the interconnectedness 
and complexity to determine 
risk, not just have a one-size-fits-
all mentality. It is not one size fits all. 
We are more complex. Banks are as different 
as people. 

Let’s look at the complexity at every 
bank and make sure they can operate 
within their communities in a way 
that fits the risk to the financial system. 


This gets back to the American people. 
Why does this matter? Why is this 
not just about finance and complex 
rules? 

Because if banks can’t lend, or if 
they lend and you are driving up the 
cost of their lending, then that has a 
real impact on the small businesses in 
my community and the families in my 
community that can’t get a loan, or 
the loans they do get, the costs are 
going through the roof because of all 
the new compliance costs. 

The bottom line is why do we want to 
have increased regulatory burdens on 
banks that aren’t risky? 

Let’s have the regulators focus like a 
laser on the banks on Wall Street who 
do need the increased regulation, but 
not the ones that don’t. 

One size doesn’t fit all. Let’s work together. 
Let’s modify Dodd-Frank. This 
isn’t Holy Scripture. It didn’t come 
down from Heaven on high. It can be 
fixed. It is not perfect. Again—we are 
going to say this all day—Barney 
Frank even thinks the threshold is too 
low. It can be fixed. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. I yield the gentleman 
an additional 30 seconds. 

Mr. DUFFY. Mr. Speaker, I look forward 
to working with my good friend, 

the ranking member. Commonsense reform 
that looks to your good friends, 
the regulators, to take a sound look at 
risk profiles, and then decide what 
kind of regulatory regime is necessary 
for the risk that is presented by each of 
these banks. 

I thank the chairman for his work. I 
encourage everyone on both sides of 
the aisle to support this commonsense 
bill that supports small businesses and 
American families to make America 
great again. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from Wisconsin 
has the audacity to come to this 
floor and say that we are crushing 
these pitiful little banks with $50 billion 
or more. No. You are crushing the 
average person who gets up every 
morning, who goes to work, and who is 
trying to take care of their families 
and is getting ripped off by these financial 
institutions. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the 
gentlewoman from Hawaii (Ms. 
GABBARD), who is a member of the Foreign 
Affairs Committee. 

Ms. GABBARD. Mr. Speaker, I am 
rising today in strong opposition to 

H.R. 6392. It is a dangerous bill that 
puts the economic security of millions 
of Americans at risk. 
Let’s not forget that just 8 short 
years ago, the lives of Americans all 
across the country were shaken and 
devastated by the worst economic crisis 
since the Great Depression. The 
livelihoods of hardworking families 
were put at risk and millions of Americans 
lost their homes and saw their 
lifesavings wiped out all because of 
risky banking practices and the overgrown 
‘‘too big to fail’’ banks. At that 
time, Republicans and Democrats 
railed against the travesty that these 
banks exacted on the American people. 

This bill threatens to unravel the 
very protections that were put in place 
to prevent a repeat of this economic 
crisis. It would gut the higher capital 
requirements on 27 banks that together 
hold over $4 trillion in assets—nearly 
one-quarter of all banking system assets 
in the United States—and water 
down the independent authority of the 
Federal Reserve to regulate large bank 
risk. 

Eight years ago, the failure of large 
regional banks like Countrywide, 
Washington Mutual, and Wachovia— 
major subprime mortgage lenders leading 
up to the crisis—created shock 
waves throughout our financial system 
and hurt the American people. This bill 
would scale back the Federal Reserve’s 
ability to regulate these banks, placing 
greater risk and burden on the backs of 
the American people. 

I urge my colleagues to stand with 
the people and vote against this dangerous 
legislation. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Kentucky (Mr. BARR), who is one of our 
bright and shining stars on the Financial 
Services Committee. 

Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
strong support of H.R. 6392, the Sys


temic Risk Designation Improvement 
Act, and I applaud the gentleman’s excellent 
work on this bill. 

The ranking member, my friend, says 
that this is not about Main Street. Let 
me talk about what this bill is trying 
to fix, the problem we are trying to 
solve here. 

Dodd-Frank, the legislation that my 
friends on the other side of the aisle 
are defending, has produced this: small-
business lending from banks is at the 
lowest level it has been in 20 years, and 
more than 75 percent of corporate 
treasurers in this country say that 
Federal regulations are stifling access 
to financial services. As a result, new 
business formation in this country is 
at a 35-year low. 

This bill is about Main Street because 
Main Street cannot access financial 
services because of Dodd-Frank. 
This bill is about fixing an arbitrary 
provision in the Dodd-Frank law that 
harms consumers and does absolutely 
nothing to stabilize markets. 

Dodd-Frank directs the Financial 
Stability Oversight Council to designate 
banks as systemically important 
financial institutions, or SIFIs. 
These designated institutions are subject 
to surcharges, additional regulation, 
and an implicit taxpayer bailout. 
That’s right, their bill is what gives 
Wall Street a bailout. 

b 1400 
What we are saying is: let’s focus our 
attention on Wall Street, but let’s get 
regional banks some regulatory relief 
so that they can serve their customers 
on Main Street. 
The primary test for systemic importance 
is an arbitrary threshold of $50 
billion. Above that line, an institution 
is designated systemically important 
or too big to fail. Above that line, regardless 
of the institution’s risky activities, 
it is exempt. 
This bill that we are supporting does 
away with this blunt threshold and directs 
FSOC and its constituent agencies 
to consider the institution’s actual 
activities to determine if it actually is 
risky. If it is not, it deserves relief so 
that it can serve its customers better. 
Size is not the only issue. It is interconnectedness. 
It is risky activities. 
Many of these regional banks that 
serve my constituents in central and 
eastern Kentucky, not Wall Street— 
central and eastern Kentucky. Farmers, 
small business owners, and homeowners 
in Kentucky are being crushed 
and denied access to capital because of 
a one-size-fits-all regulation from 
Washington. 
Unlike Dodd-Frank’s arbitrary approach, 
this will better promote financial 
stability because it actually targets 
the enhanced regulation to where 
it belongs and not on Wall Street. 
The bottom line is, we are hearing 
from regional banks around this country, 
in central Kentucky and other 
places, that the expense of complying 
with these enhanced regulations and 
the SIFI surcharge means less capital 


H7082 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

for deployment in mortgages, in automobile 
loans, and in small business 
loans, it means higher credit card 
rates, and it means fewer customer rewards. 
It impacts these institutions’ 
ability to engage in philanthropy and 
community development activities. 

Treating these regional banks as 
complex Wall Street firms is simply illogical. 
These are not multinational 
Wall Street firms. These are traditional 
banks that serve Americans on 
Main Street. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of 
my time 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Mr. Speaker, I 
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. ROTHFUS), one of 
our most thoughtful members on the 
Financial Services Committee. 

Mr. ROTHFUS. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today in strong support of H.R. 6392. 

This bill, the Systemic Risk Designation 
Improvement Act, offers a commonsense 
approach to the process of 
designating systemically important financial 
institutions. In doing so, it addresses 
a problem that Republicans and 
Democrats have complained about for 
some time. 

Dodd-Frank’s $50 billion threshold 
for identifying SIFIs is a crude and arbitrary 
way to decide which firms pose 
a risk to the stability of the financial 
system. It is important to remember 
that SIFI designation isn’t trivial. 
When a financial institution is labeled 
as a SIFI, it faces enhanced regulation, 
supervision, and costs without regard 
to the nature of the bank or the bank’s 
business. 

Accordingly, SIFI designation impacts 
a firm’s lending ability, and, 
therefore, the firm’s customers, and 
their customer’s ability to thrive. 

If we really care about protecting financial 
stability and having a healthy 
financial system, we have a responsibility 
to pursue a fairer, more transparent, 
and more accurate process. The 
approach set forth under H.R. 6392 represents 
a more rational process for 
evaluating financial institutions, as 
opposed to the Washington tradition of 
one-size-fits-all. 

Under this bill, the Financial Stability 
Oversight Council will be required 
to look at not only the size of a 
financial institution but also its interconnectedness, 
complexity, cross-jurisdictional 
activity, and availability of 
substitutes. Keep in mind that banks 
designated as SIFIs today may still be 
designated as SIFIs under this new approach. 


This bill’s reforms will inject the 
FSOC’s SIFI designation process with 
greater clarity and fairness, and it will 
result in more appropriately targeted 
regulatory efforts. 

I commend Chairman LUETKEMEYER 
for his work on this important issue, 
and I am proud to be a cosponsor of 
this bill in its original form. 

I urge my colleagues to support this 
bill. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to 

the gentleman from Texas (Mr. AL 
GREEN). 

Mr. AL GREEN of Texas. Madam 
Speaker, let’s take a look at this size 
question because $50 billion was selected 
for a reason, and the reason is 
this: If you don’t have a threshold, we 
knew at the time, as we know now, 
that you won’t get any banks designated 
because the banks are going to 
sue, and they are going to tie you up in 
court. Well, maybe some will not, but 
you are going to have a real fight on 
your hands getting them to be designated, 
and it can take 2 to 4 years to 
get it done. 

Looking at the banks that are covered, 
only three of the banks covered 
are in the $50-billion range. The top 15 
are over $100 billion, and the top bank 
is about a half trillion dollars. Again, 
only in Washington, D.C., would this 
kind of money—a half trillion dollars 
for one bank—be considered small 
change. 

We cannot allow the banks to dominate 
the process. We put the process in 
the hands of the banks when the regulators 
have to take them on one at a 
time. 

Finally, what is wrong with telling a 
bank, ‘‘You have to tell us how to 
eliminate you if you become a systemic 
risk’’? That is what Dodd-Frank 
does. This bill eliminates the ability of 
FSOC to determine and tell banks that 
they must give up. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from Colorado (Mr. TIPTON), one of our 
hardest working members on the committee. 


Mr. TIPTON. Madam Speaker, I 
thank my colleague from Missouri (Mr. 
LUETKEMEYER) for offering this important 
piece of legislation under consideration 
today. 

The bipartisan Systemic Risk Designation 
Improvement Act replaces an 
arbitrary asset threshold with an indicator-
based approach, which will better 
assist the Financial Stability Oversight 
Council in determining the true 
systemic risk of a financial institution. 

It is a mistake for regulators to continue 
regulating a $50-billion bank in 
the same way they regulate trillion-
dollar global systemically important 
institutions. In fact, this view is shared 
among regulators and legislators. 
Comptroller Curry, Federal Reserve 
Board member Tarullo, Senator 
SHERROD BROWN, and even former 
Chairman Barney Frank have all made 
public comments agreeing that the $50-
billion SIFI threshold is not the best 
determination for imposing heightened 
prudential standards. 

This bill introduces a better, analysis-
driven approach, requiring the 
council to require metrics already established 
by the Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision when it identifies 
Global Systemically Important Banks. 

The Systemic Risk Designation Improvement 
Act will stop the current 
regulatory model of needlessly increasing 
compliance costs and forcing insti


tutions to decrease financial services. 
By ensuring that the SIFI designation 
process takes into account indicator 
factors, financial institutions that 
were not the cause of the financial crisis 
will once again be able to fully 
serve their communities. Not only will 
this legislation provide relief for stable 
financial institutions, but it will also 
allow regulators to focus their resources, 
working with institutions that 
pose an actual systemic risk to the financial 
system. 

It is important to note that this legislation 
does not strip the FSOC of designation 
powers. It is concerning that 
some groups oppose a bill that encourages 
the council to use accepted measuring 
standards to justify a SIFI designation. 


Systemic importance should be determined 
by appropriate criteria rather 
than by an arbitrary line that has no 
justifiable purpose. To advocate for the 
status quo, and against this legislation, 
shows a fundamental misunderstanding 
of the financial system and 
systemic risk. 

I am happy to lend my support to 
this bill and encourage my colleagues 
to support this commonsense measure. 
I, again, thank the gentleman from 
Missouri (Mr. LUETKEMEYER) for his 
leadership on this measure. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, I continue to reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
may I inquire as to how much time 
is remaining on both sides? 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. 
BLACK). The gentleman from Missouri 
has 21/2 minutes remaining. The gentlewoman 
from California has 5 minutes 
remaining. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from Utah (Mrs. LOVE). Again, we have 
a good crop of young folks on our committee, 
and she is one of those bright 
stars for us. 

Mrs. LOVE. Madam Speaker, we have 
before us a solution to regulation that 
causes real harm to an important financial 
institution, especially in my 
State, Zions Bancorporation, which 
supports the financial needs of many 
families and businesses throughout 
Utah and the Western States. 

Last year, Zions Bancorporation 
chairman and CEO, Harris Simmons, 
spoke about increased compliance 
costs his institution has to face as a result 
of the enhanced prudential standards 
requirements of the Dodd-Frank 
Act. Specifically, Zions has had to divert 
resources to add nearly 500 additional 
full-time staff to areas such as 
compliance, internal audits, credit administration, 
and enterprise risk management. 


Mr. Simmons also testified at the 
House Financial Services’ Financial Institutions 
and Consumer Credit Subcommittee 
that these increased compliance 
costs are offset by reductions 
in other areas of the organization. 
Many of them are consumer-facing 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7083 

functions. In other words, Zions Bank 
had to move resources away from lending 
to customers and consumer service 
because of these extra regulations. Yet, 
Zions is one of the smallest SIFIs, with 
a business model centered on very traditional 
banking activities, primarily 
commercial lending with a particular 
focus on lending to smaller businesses. 

I support H.R. 6392. It allows banks 
like Zions Bank to get back to what 
they do best. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, I continue to reserve 
the balance of my time. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentleman 
from Arkansas (Mr. HILL), who brings a 
wealth of financial services background 
to the committee. 

Mr. HILL. Madam Speaker, I thank 
the chairman and congratulate him on 
this constructive bill. 

This bill today is not about dangerous 
agendas, greed, signing bonuses, 
or wholesale exemptions of regulation 
for 27 big banks—not at all. This bill is 
about using common sense and taking 
off the autopilot that is in Dodd-Frank, 
which designates our SIFIs on size 
alone. In fact, it includes all the factors 
that should be considered for institutions 
that might present a systemic 
risk. 

This is a bipartisan bill that has support 
on both sides of the aisle. Former 
Chairman Frank’s comments have been 
read into the RECORD, but how about 
Governor Dan Tarullo: ‘‘Resolution 
planning and the quite elaborate requirements 
of our supervisory stress 
testing process do not seem to me to be 
necessary for banks between $50 billion 
and $100 billion in assets.’’ 

Tom Curry, our comptroller of the 
currency: ‘‘The better approach is to 
use an asset figure as a first screen and 
give discretion to the supervisors based 
on the risks in the business plan and 
operations.’’ 

And Senator SHERROD BROWN, certainly 
a supporter of Dodd-Frank: ‘‘I do 
agree that some banks above $50 billion 
should not be regulated like Wall 
Street megabanks.’’ 

I support this bill. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, I yield myself such 
time as I may consume. 

Here we are in the lameduck session 
of Congress, and we are signaling to 
special interests all the giveaways that 
are about to come with Republicans in 
control of Washington. And we do this 
just after the President-elect selected a 
man to head the Treasury Department 
whose bank has been accused of redlining 
and violating the Fair Housing 
Act, whose bank was responsible for 
about 40 percent of reverse mortgage 
foreclosures in 2009 to 2014, and whose 
bank was characterized by a New York 
judge as engaging in harsh, repugnant, 
shocking, and repulsive acts against 
debtors. 

Donald Trump ran a campaign on 
anti-Wall Street rhetoric, but appointing 
a former hedge fund manager, Gold


man Sachs, executive and bank CEO, as 
Treasury Secretary shows his true colors. 
Mr. Mnuchin is a Wall Street insider 
with ties to big banks that have a 
troubling past of putting profits ahead 
of consumers and taxpayers. Mnuchin, 
during his time at OneWest, during his 
time, foreclosed on homes of 36,000 families. 


Mr. Mnuchin now sits on the board of 
CIT, which bought his former bank. 
Mnuchin took a reported $10.9-million 
payout when the merger was completed. 
CIT’s regulatory filings indicate 
that the bank provides Mr. 
Mnuchin with annual compensation of 
$4.5 million for each of 2015, 2016, and 
2017, which gives a base salary of 
$800,000, short-term incentives of $1.4 
million, and long-term incentives of 
$2.3 million. That is 88 times the household 
income of the average American 
family. 

What is worse, CIT is a megabank, 
and, instead of paying back taxpayers, 
it went bankrupt, like many of Mr. 
Trump’s failed businesses. 

b 1415 
Mnuchin is a man who got rich off of 
the foreclosure crisis and taxpayer 
bailouts again—not unlike Mr. Trump 
himself—and he will now have oversight 
over significant swaps of our financial 
regulatory system. 

H.R. 6392, in particular, is President-
elect Trump’s and the congressional 
GOP’s first effort to deregulate Wall 
Street since the election. 
This bill stands to benefit just 27 
banks in the United States, and one of 
those banks is Mr. Mnuchin’s bank, 
CIT. In fact, CIT just recently completed 
a merger with OneWest, which 
made Mr. Mnuchin rich. That merger 
also pushed CIT over the $50-billion 
threshold that would make the bank 
subject to Dodd-Frank rules. Rather 
than submit to more stringent regulation, 
CIT is trying to grease the skids 
to get favorable treatment in Congress 
so that its megamerger won’t come 
with any strings attached. Specifically, 
this legislation would eliminate CIT 
from being subjected to more stringent 
Dodd-Frank rules related to capital, liquidity, 
risk management, living wills, 
stress testing, and other crucial requirements 
that prevent bailouts. 

What is more, the legislation would 
take authority to regulate banks away 
from our independent regulators and 
hand that power over to this man, who 
I am telling you all about, who has a 
history of proving to have not only 
foreclosed on a lot of innocent homeowners, 
but who is, maybe, I think, 
under investigation now by HUD. 

Again, this legislation would take 
the authority to regulate banks away 
from our independent regulators and 
would hand that power over to him. 
Mr. Mnuchin would now, per H.R. 6392, 
be in the driver’s seat to determine 
which banks get regulated and how. 
That means he could give special favors 
to his bank while ignoring similarly 
situated banks, not to mention 
our financial stability. 

My friends on the opposite side of the 
aisle will tell us: Oh, that is a bailout 
we had to do in order to keep this 
country from going into a depression. 

You force taxpayers to make that 
bailout—to pay for it. Now here we are 
today with a President-elect who pays 
no taxes. So why would he be worried 
about whether or not we have a bailout? 


I would say this is one of the worst 
bills that is going to come before us; 
but just like Mr. HENSARLING said: We 
ain’t seen nothing yet. 

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
I yield myself such time as I may 
consume. 

Just to recap, the Dodd-Frank came 
into being as a result of the crisis. One 
of the solutions was to be able to fine 
systemically important financial institutions 
before they brought the economy 
down. Coming up with the SIFI 
definition was one way to do that. The 
problem was that the SIFI designation 
was too large and was being impacted 
in too many different and wrongful 
ways. Even Dodd-Frank’s original author, 
Barney Frank, recognized that 
with his testimony this past week as 
well as in our committee. 

The metrics that we have in the bill 
are very simple. They are things that 
are used by the Financial Stability 
Board and by the Office of Financial 
Research when they look at global 
SIFIs. The CIT and OneWest merger 
that the ranking member keeps talking 
about are metrics that were used by 
the regulators to determine whether 
that was something they should be 
doing. 

We are not reinventing the wheel 
here. What we are doing is taking the 
burden off of the midsized regional 
banks, which is causing fewer products 
and services to be able to be provided 
to the customers at an increased cost; 
so I ask for the passage of the bill. 

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time 
for debate on the bill has expired. 

AMENDMENT NO. 1 PRINTED IN PART B OF HOUSE 
REPORT 114–839 OFFERED BY MR. DAVIDSON 

Mr. DAVIDSON. Madam Speaker, I 
have an amendment at the desk that 
would ensure the integrity of H.R. 6392, 
the Systemic Risk Designation Improvement 
Act of 2016. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will designate the amendment. 

The text of the amendment is as follows: 


Add at the end the following: 
SEC. 7. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION. 

Nothing in this Act or the amendments 
made by this Act may be construed as broadly 
applying international standards except 
as specifically provided under paragraphs (2) 
and (3) of section 113(c) of the Dodd-Frank 
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act, as added by section 3. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to House Resolution 934, the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON) and a 


H7084 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

Member opposed each will control 5 
minutes. 

The Chair recognizes the gentleman 
from Ohio. 

Mr. DAVIDSON. Madam Speaker, I 
yield myself 21/2 minutes. 

Today’s bill spells out the criteria 
the Financial Stability Oversight 
Council, FSOC, must use in determining 
institutions of systemic risk. 

My amendment will prevent the Federal 
Reserve and the Treasury from 
blindly implementing new regulations 
proposed by an international entity, 
whether coming from the Basel Commission 
or from the unelected bureaucrats 
on the Financial Stability Board. 
When Congress begins to apply international 
standards, we need to make 
certain that executive agencies don’t 
overreach by simply ratifying every decision 
that is made internationally. 

Recently, the Treasury and the Fed 
have been found to have made determinations 
that mirror the standards 
issued by the Financial Stability Board 
but without sufficient review—simply 
rubberstamping them. They have gone 
along with the decisions that have been 
made by international unelected bureaucrats 
and, in the process, have 
harmed our regional and community 
banks and Americans’ access to credit. 
Similar concerns have been raised by 

U.S. insurance companies. That is why 
Mr. LUETKEMEYER is also sponsoring 
legislation to make sure that these 
one-size-fits-all regulations are not 
used to supersede our State-based insurance 
regulations here in the United 
States. 
H.R. 6392 will provide the necessary 
relief and transparency that is needed 
in these systemic risk designations. I 
am proud to offer this amendment to 
clarify that our Federal agencies cannot 
use the loophole of international 
recommendations to expand their powers 
and subject our community and 
local banks to even more burdensome 
regulations. 
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to 
the gentleman’s amendment. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman 
is recognized for 5 minutes. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, this bill outsources 
our domestic regulation by the Federal 
Reserve and hands it over to an international 
group of regulators known as 
the Financial Stability Board, or the 
FSB, to determine which banks should 
be regulated by our regulators. It says 
this international body should decide 
which banks are regulated, not the 
United States Congress. 

The U.S. is just one member nation 
among many represented on the FSB, 
and the Republicans have often criticized 
this board of regulators for being 
‘‘shadowy’’ and not sufficiently deferential 
to American interests. 

Currently, the FSB makes determinations 
on which global banks are 
systemically significant—not signifi


cant to the U.S., but to the entire global 
economy. This legislation imports 
those determinations and sets our domestic 
regulation on autopilot. If the 
international regulators say you are 
important, then this bill would grandfather 
you into Dodd-Frank. If not, 
then you get the big giveaway of deregulation. 


This amendment rightfully says that 
the U.S. shouldn’t be giving away our 
sovereignty over our economy to international 
regulators, but the amendment 
fails to have the courage of its 
convictions. Curiously, it says that 
nothing in this bill shall broadly apply 
international regulatory standards to 
the U.S., with an exception for the part 
of the bill that applies international 
regulatory standards to the U.S. 

In summary, Democrats who oppose 
the deregulation of big banks should 
oppose H.R. 6392, and Republicans who 
oppose outsourcing our regulation to 
foreign bureaucrats should oppose H.R. 
6392. This amendment does nothing to 
solve this fundamental issue in the bill, 
and this legislation is still deeply problematic 
even if the amendment is accepted. 


Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. DAVIDSON. Madam Speaker, I 
yield the balance of my time to the 
gentleman from Missouri (Mr. LUETKEMEYER). 


Mr. LUETKEMEYER. I thank the 
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON) 
for his interest and for his authoring 
this amendment. 

Madam Speaker, the amendment 
makes clear that H.R. 6392 should not 
be construed to allow international 
standards to be imposed on U.S. institutions. 
The underlying bill, in two 
separate places, does rely on a similar 
framework that is utilized by the Basel 
Commission and that is used by the 
Federal Reserve and the Treasury in an 
effort to ensure that the largest U.S. 
banks maintain their SIFI designations. 


Beyond these provisions, however, it 
would be highly inappropriate for any 
international body to use H.R. 6392 to 
impose any standard on a U.S. entity. 
It is important to make the point, as 
we advocate today for risk-based supervision, 
that we avoid any sort of blanket 
approach that is so commonly seen 
out of international regulatory bodies. 

In the case of foreign banks in their 
doing business in the United States, for 
example, the $50-billion threshold and 
its interpretation by the Federal Reserve 
results in a huge number of 
banks being treated as SIFIs despite 
the fact that many of them have under 
$10 billion in assets. As we consider 
these designations, we need to avoid 
one-size-fits-all models and look at factors 
like comparable home-country 
standards before we move forward on 
enhanced prudential regulation. 

I hope we can address some of these 
issues in the next Congress and that we 
can work with international regulators, 
particularly those in the Euro


pean Union, to avoid the escalation of 
the ongoing standoff on bank capital 
rules. We should work collaboratively 
to inject commonsense into financial 
regulation that will protect U.S. taxpayers 
and the financial system without 
constricting economic growth. 

Mr. DAVIDSON. Madam Speaker, I 
yield back the balance of my time. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to the rule, the previous question 
is ordered on the bill and on the 
amendment offered by the gentleman 
from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON). 

The question is on the amendment by 
the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON). 


The amendment was agreed to. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the engrossment and 
third reading of the bill. 

The bill was ordered to be engrossed 
and read a third time, and was read the 
third time. 

MOTION TO RECOMMIT 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, I have a motion to recommit 
at the desk. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the 
gentlewoman opposed to the bill? 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
I am opposed in its current form. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
Clerk will report the motion to recommit. 


Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent 
to dispense with the reading. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentlewoman 
from California? 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
I object to the dispensing of the 
reading. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Objection 
is heard. 

The Clerk will report the motion to 
recommit. 

The Clerk read as follows: 

Ms. Maxine Waters of California moves to 
recommit the bill H.R. 6392 to the Committee 
on Financial Services with instructions 
to report the same back to the House 
forthwith with the following amendment: 

Page 4, line 17, strike the quotation mark 
and following semicolon and insert the following: 


‘‘(4) CERTAIN COMPANIES WITH PENDING LAWSUITS 
OR ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS DESIGNATED 
BY OPERATION OF LAW.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this subsection, a bank 
holding company shall be deemed to have 
been the subject of a final determination 
under paragraph (1) if the bank holding company, 
as of the date of enactment of this subsection— 


‘‘(A) has total consolidated assets equal to 
or greater than $50,000,000,000; and 

‘‘(B) has disclosed in a filing with the Commission 
that a department or agency of the 
United States Government has a pending 
lawsuit or enforcement action against the 
bank holding company related to the origination, 
securitization, or sale of residential 
mortgage-backed securities.’’. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
I reserve a point of order. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7085 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. A point 
of order is reserved. 

Pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman 
from California is recognized 
for 5 minutes. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, this is the final 
amendment to the bill, which will not 
kill the bill or send it back to committee. 
If adopted, the bill will immediately 
proceed to final passage, as 
amended. 

Madam Speaker, make no mistake. 
This bill is the opening salvo in the 
Trump plan to dismantle Dodd-Frank. 
The House Republicans have been trying 
for 6 years, ever since we passed 
Wall Street reform; and on the eve of 
the President-elect’s taking office, this 
is their big chance to deregulate 27 of 
the Nation’s largest banks. 

This bill would strip rules around 
capital, liquidity, stress testing, and 
living wills—key components to guard 
against catastrophic bank failures. 
These are not community banks. No. 
These are $50-, $100-, $200-, and $400-billion 
banks that engage in exotic products 
like ‘‘pick-a-payment,’’ which is 
when you choose how much you want 
to pay; and ‘‘negative amortization’’ 
loans, which is when, incredibly, the 
loan principal goes up, not down, leading 
up to the financial crisis. 

b 1430 
This bill would strip Fed Chair Janet 
Yellen of the Fed’s independent authority 
and hand it over to Trump’s Wall 
Street Treasury Secretary, a man who 
foreclosed on 36,000 families when he 
ran this bank, a man who has been accused 
of redlining and fair lending discrimination 
by civil rights and advocacy 
groups, a man who would be handed 
the authority to deregulate the 
bank on whose board he now serves, if 
this bill became law. But those conflicts 
of interest are par for the course 
in this incoming administration. 
President-elect Donald Trump has 
more conflicts of interest than any incoming 
President in the history of this 
country. Trump’s son-in-law and close 
adviser, Jared Kushner, has hundreds 
of millions of dollars in loans outstanding 
from domestic and foreign 
banks and has obtained development financing 
through a controversial U.S. 
program that sells green cards. 
Legal scholars believe Trump’s lease 
with the government over the Old Post 
Office Building where his hotel in 
Washington, D.C., stands will trigger a 
breach of contract and a conflict of interest 
the moment he is sworn in. And 
Trump may even violate the Constitution 
on the day he takes office, with 
former-President Bush’s ethics lawyer 
saying that foreign diplomats staying 
in his hotels would be an unlawful foreign 
gift. 
Madam Speaker, this amendment 
highlights yet another conflict of interest 
we are facing. President-elect 
Trump is deeply indebted to Deutsche 
Bank. Over the past two decades, Deutsche 
Bank has been a lender or a co-

lender in at least $2.5 billion in loans to 
Donald Trump or his companies. 

Here is a sampling of Trump’s indebtedness 
to Deutsche: The businesses 
within Trump’s network currently owe 
Deutsche Bank nearly $360 million in 
outstanding principal, including $125 
million for his Florida golf course, up 
to $69 million for his Chicago high-rise, 
and a $170 million line of credit used to 
fund the development of his new hotel 
in Washington, DC. 

This legislation, H.R. 6392, 
deregulates huge megabanks representing 
almost 30 percent of the assets 
currently subject to stricter rules 
under Dodd-Frank. In the bill, it is possible 
that the U.S. operations of global 
megabanks—megabanks like Deutsche 
Bank—would also be deregulated. And 
with Donald Trump’s appointments interpreting 
the law, I suspect they will 
indeed deregulate these global 
megabanks. 

Why is this important? Well, it is important 
because Deutsche Bank has a 
potential $14 billion settlement with 
the Department of Justice pending related 
to toxic mortgages they packaged 
and sold leading up to the financial crisis. 
They sliced and diced subprime 
loans and duped not only homeowners, 
but unsuspecting investors. Just like 
President-elect Trump, they saw the 
specter of a foreclosure crisis and financial 
collapse as a business opportunity, 
not a human tragedy. After 
Trump’s election, news headlines said 
that Deutsche Bank stood to get a 
windfall because the new sheriffs in 
town would go easy on them. 

This amendment says enough is 
enough. While the Trump Justice Department 
may give Deutsche Bank a 
break, the United States Congress will 
not stand idly by and let Trump’s conflicts 
of interest grease the skids for 
powerful interests in Washington. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
I withdraw my reservation of a 
point of order. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The reservation 
of a point of order is withdrawn. 


Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
I claim time in opposition. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Missouri is recognized for 
5 minutes. 

Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, 
just to highlight some comments 
here with regard to the ranking member’s 
last discussion on this point of 
order, we believe the motion to recommit 
has absolutely nothing to do with 
financial stability. 

Title 1 of the bill deals with operational 
standards of bank holding companies. 
This bill we are working with 
deals directly with how regulators deal 
with banks. A pending lawsuit has 
nothing to do with the financial stability 
of this bank. This may belong 
somewhere else in the Dodd-Frank bill, 
but it doesn’t belong in here. 

With regards to the underlying bill as 
well, Madam Speaker, to reiterate 

some of the points that have been discussed 
already, we have a situation 
where the fix for the crisis of 2008 was 
Dodd-Frank, as was spoken to eloquently 
by some of my colleagues. 
Some of the fixes—no bill we put together 
around here is ever perfect. 
There are always problems with it. It 
always needs to be tweaked down the 
road. 

This particular issue we are talking 
about today, systemically important 
designation of institutions, was part of 
a solution to try and be able to identify 
banks, by definition, that would bring 
down the entire economy so this 
couldn’t ever happen again. If we have 
a big bank go down, it could be of such 
a size and magnitude and connectedness 
that it would bring down the entire 
economy. One of the unintended 
consequences of this is that these regulations 
have rolled downhill to small, 
midsized banks. It was unintended, but 
they are a consequence. 

Barney Frank, the author of the bill, 
has said on numerous occasions—in 
fact, in our committee, he testified to 
the fact that this is an unintended consequence—
it should be fixed. That is 
what this bill does. It fixes that problem. 


These unintended consequences of all 
these rules and regulations, which 
carry costs with them, are rolling 
downhill to these midsized regional 
banks; and even at that, they are rolling 
below that, below 50. If you are 
talking $10 billion to $50 billion banks, 
they will tell you that all of the things 
that the midsized banks above are dealing 
with, they are dealing with that as 
well. So these regulations that are supposed 
to be for the big banks—a trillion 
dollars and over or whatever—are rolling 
all the way downhill to the small 
banks, the small community banks. 

Now, they will argue about the fact 
that $50 billion is an arbitrary figure. 
It is something we need to keep. That 
is a big bank. 

I am sorry. Madam Speaker, I was a 
regulator in my former life, and I was 
a banker in a former life. I can tell you 
that is a big bank, but that is not 
something that is going to bring down 
the economy unless they are interconnected. 
The metrics in my bill say 
that if they are interconnected—they 
have got all sorts of other risky actions 
they are engaged in—$50 billion is 
not going to do it. 

Things that you have to look at are 
size and all these other criteria that we 
have in here. And these are not criteria 
pulled out of the air. These are criteria 
that the Federal Stability Board uses, 
that the Office of Financial Research 
uses when they look at G-SIBs, which 
are global SIBs. So these are analysis 
tools that are there and have been 
there for a long time. 

Why not give the examiners, the regulators, 
these tools? I can tell you, as 
a regulator, they already do this. 

A while ago, the point was made it 
takes the regulator about 12 months, in 
my bill, to come up with these designations. 
The regulators already do this. 


H7086 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

They have got the information in hand. 
There is no reason that they can’t do 
this in a 12-month period. I have been 
there. I have done that. It is easy to do. 
They have the information. 

So what we are doing is taking existing 
criteria and asking them to look at 
the risk and the business model of this 
particular entity to see if it is something 
that is big enough and connected 
enough to go down. $50 billion is not 
someplace where a bank should be that 
it is going to cause the entire economy 
to collapse, no way. Common sense will 
tell you that. 

So, to close out here very quickly, I 
think that we have a situation where 
these regulations are costing money to 
the consumers, to the businesses that 
the banks lend to. One quick factoid is 
75 percent of the banks before Dodd-
Frank had free checking, now only 37 
percent. 

Those are just some of the facts, as 
they roll downhill, that show that 
these regulations are having a negative 
effect on our economy and our local 
communities. The banks we are talking 
about are not the gigantic interconnected 
globals, folks. These are 
large community banks, which is basically 
what they all are, that serve communities 
and mom-and-pop shops. We 
want to keep them in business. We 
want to keep our communities growing. 


I yield back the balance of my time. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without 
objection, the previous question is ordered 
on the motion to recommit. 

There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion to recommit. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, on that I demand the 
yeas and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 of rule XX and the order 
of the House of today, further proceedings 
on this question will be postponed. 


f 

PERMISSION TO POSTPONE PROCEEDINGS 
ON MOTION TO RECOMMIT 
ON H. RES. 933, PROVIDING 
AMOUNTS FOR FURTHER 
EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE 
ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE IN 
THE ONE HUNDRED FOURTEENTH 
CONGRESS 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that the question 
of adopting a motion to recommit on 

H. Res. 933 may be subject to postponement 
as though under clause 8 of rule 
XX. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs. 
WAGNER). Is there objection to the request 
of the gentleman from Mississippi? 


There was no objection. 

PROVIDING AMOUNTS FOR FURTHER 
EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE 
ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 
IN THE ONE HUNDRED 
FOURTEENTH CONGRESS 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, by direction 
of the Committee on House Administration, 
I call up the resolution 

(H. Res. 933) providing amounts for further 
expenses of the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce in the One Hundred 
Fourteenth Congress, and ask for 
its immediate consideration. 
The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 
The text of the resolution is as follows: 
H. RES. 933 

Resolved, 

SECTION 1. AMOUNTS FOR COMMITTEE EXPENSES. 


For further expenses of the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce (hereafter in this resolution 
referred to as the ‘‘Committee’’) for 
the One Hundred Fourteenth Congress, there 
shall be paid out of the applicable accounts 
of the House of Representatives not more 
than $800,000. 
SEC. 2. VOUCHERS. 

Payments under this resolution shall be 
made on vouchers authorized by the Committee, 
signed by the Chairman of the Committee, 
and approved in the manner directed 
by the Committee on House Administration. 
SEC. 3. REGULATIONS. 

Amounts made available under this resolution 
shall be expended in accordance with 
regulations prescribed by the Committee on 
House Administration. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Mississippi (Mr. HARPER) 
is recognized for 1 hour. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, for 
the purpose of debate only, I yield the 
customary 30 minutes to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
BRADY), pending which I yield myself 
such time as I may consume. During 
consideration of this resolution, all 
time yielded is for the purpose of debate 
only. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend 
their remarks and to include extraneous 
matter in the RECORD on the 
consideration of H. Res. 933, currently 
under consideration. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Mississippi? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I rise 
in support of H. Res. 933, a resolution 
that authorizes additional funds for the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce’s 
budget for the remainder of the 114th 
Congress. 

Last year, on October 7, the House 
passed, by a majority vote, a measure 
creating a Select Investigative Panel 
on Infant Lives within the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. Our committee 
has the responsibility to ensure 
that each committee of the House has 
sufficient resources to fulfill their assigned 
oversight duties. 

Last year, our committee transferred 
funds from the committee reserve ac


count to the Energy and Commerce 
Committee so that the panel could 
begin its work. An additional transfer 
was made earlier this year. These funds 
were allocated based on the full committee’s 
need to fulfill its mission. 
These initial transfers were insufficient 
to cover the costs associated with 
the select panel. 

The measure before us on the House 
floor today will rectify this situation 
and allow the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce and the Select Investigative 
Panel on Infant Lives to continue 
to operate until the end of this 
Congress. 

b 1445 
Passing this measure to provide additional 
funds is an institutional responsibility. 
If we do not allocate these additional 
funds, the work of the entire 
Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
both for the majority and minority, 
would grind to a halt. The committee 
would be unable to complete its vital 
work. This work covers important 
areas, such as electronic communications, 
environmental protection, and 
health care. We saw this week the important 
work of the committee in the 
21st Century Cures Act. 
There are differences of opinion on 
the creation of the select investigative 
panel. However, we are not here to re-
litigate a decision that the House made 
more than a year ago but to fulfill our 
institutional responsibilities. It is my 
hope that we will swiftly pass this 
measure today. 
I reserve the balance of my time. 
Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Madam 
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I 
may consume. 
I rise in opposition to this resolution 
and in opposition to the existence of 
the panel generally. It has been nothing 
more than a partisan witch hunt 
that will ultimately cost taxpayers 
over a million dollars and has found no 
wrongdoing by the people it was created 
to investigate. Three House committees 
and 13 States have launched 
their own similar investigations and 
came to the same conclusion. 
The panel has been a one-sided operation 
from the start, with the majority 
failing to consult and inform the minority 
on official actions and withholding 
panel records and documents. 
The dangers of this panel go far beyond 
simply wasting taxpayer money. 
It is a direct assault on women’s health 
care and the right to choose. The panel’s 
actions also put at risk the lives of 
researchers working to find cures to 
our most debilitating and deadly diseases. 
It is my hope that this is the last 
we hear of it. 
Madam Speaker, I yield 26 minutes to 
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms. 
SCHAKOWSKY), and ask unanimous consent 
that she be permitted to control 
that time. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania? 
There was no objection. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7087 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Tennessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN), the 
chairman of the select investigative 
panel. 

Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Speaker, 
the select investigative panel was 
formed to investigate areas that, prior 
to the revelations of undercover journalists, 
received too little attention. 
For most of us, it is nothing short of an 
outrage that Planned Parenthood and 
other abortion clinics supplement their 
budgets by selling the leftover parts of 
babies they have aborted. 

This Chamber charged the panel with 
investigating fetal tissue trafficking, 
second and third trimester abortion 
practices, the standard of care for infants 
who survive abortions, and the 
role our taxpayer dollars play in this 
sector of society. Over the last year, we 
have held hearings that explored the 
bioethics surrounding fetal tissue use, 
and that revealed the sobering reality 
of how fetal tissue is priced. 

Our investigation revealed four models 
by which the subjects of our investigation 
implicate serious public policy 
concerns. The first, the middleman 
model, comprises a middleman and tissue 
procurer that obtains tissue directly 
from a source such as an abortion 
clinic or hospital and then transfers 
the tissue to a customer, usually a 
university researcher. 

As the example of StemExpress illustrates, 
the procurement company 
would embed a lab technician inside an 
abortion clinic, where the technician 
would receive the day’s orders for body 
parts at specified gestation periods, access 
patient files in violation of women’s 
HIPAA privacy rights, and collect 
the tissue. Then the technician would 
receive pay and even bonuses based on 
the tissue she secured. 

A second model, the university clinic 
model, reveals the cozy relationship 
between abortion clinics and research 
institutions, most of them State universities 
funded by the taxpayers. The 
clinic provides the university the tissue 
used for research. The university 
adopts the clinic doctors as faculty 
members, giving them benefits regardless 
of whether they actually teach. 
And, in many cases, thanks to programs 
like the Ryan Fellowship, medical 
students are deployed to abortion 
clinics to be trained as the next generation 
of abortion providers. 

The panel’s investigation into a third 
model, the late-term abortion clinic, 
revealed the appalling absence of 
mechanisms or procedures to safeguard 
those infants who survive the abortion 
procedure. Put bluntly, even though we 
have the Born-Alive Infants Protection 
Act and the prohibition of partial birth 
abortion on the books, they are not enforced. 


Fourth, the panel investigated the 
model by which Federal tax dollars 
make their way to abortion clinics, 
typically by Medicaid payments under 
title XIX, and fetal tissue researchers. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentlewoman has expired. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield an additional 1 minute to the 
gentlewoman from Tennessee. 

Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Speaker, 
to provide just a snapshot of the 51 
known external audits of Planned Parenthood 
clinics, nearly all found title 
XIX overpayments for family planning 
and reproductive health service claims. 
The overbilling totalled more than $8.5 
million, and that is without counting 
several False Claims Act lawsuits that 
allege millions more in overbilling. 

Consider all that our panel has identified, 
despite having just barely a 
year—even less by the time we were 
fully staffed—to conduct the investigation. 
It is now up to us to build on the 
work, to hold the government accountable, 
and to stop these affronts to 
human dignity. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. I thank the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania for yielding 
the time to me, and I yield myself such 
time as I may consume. 

Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition 
to this legislation to fund the select investigative 
panel, the panel that we 
call the select panel to attack women’s 
health. 

It really shouldn’t come as any surprise 
that one of the very first things 
that the Republicans have done coming 
back now to Washington is to approve 
additional funding for this select so-
called investigative panel, doubling its 
budget and putting it on track to spend 
nearly $1.6-million taxpayer funds by 
the end of this year. 

This investigation is essentially built 
on a pack of lies that are perpetrated 
by anti-abortion extremists and has 
never been and has no chance of becoming 
a fact-based investigation. The 
panel Republicans have continually relied 
on, even today, doctored videotapes, 
so-called evidence, even though 
that evidence and those videotapes 
have been discredited already by three 
House committees, 13 States, and a 
Texas grand jury. 

Throughout this investigation, Republicans 
have abused congressional 
authority, issuing 42 unilateral subpoenas 
in violation of House rules, demanding 
that clinics and universities 
name names of their doctors, students, 
and staff, and releasing some of these 
names knowing that doing so puts lives 
in danger, a truly McCarthyesque attack 
on individuals. They have compared 
researchers to Nazi war criminals 
and echoed the words of anti-abortion 
activists that were also used by a 
gunman who shot 12 people, killing 3 at 
a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado 
Springs. 

Despite Republicans’ failure to find 
any evidence of wrongdoing, they continue 
to make inflammatory, grotesque 
allegations to justify the panel’s existence, 
and, by their words and actions, 
have put lifesaving research and women’s 
health care at risk. 

The panel has already had a chilling 
effect on research, drying up the supply 
of needed tissue for research on multiple 
sclerosis and threatening research 

on other diseases from A to Z, Alzheimer’s 
to Zika. 

Fetal tissue research has historically 
had broad, bipartisan support. It is the 
basis for key vaccines that have saved, 
literally, millions and millions of lives, 
including the polio vaccine. That is 
why over 60 of our Nation’s leading 
medical institutions released an open 
letter in support of scientific research 
using fetal tissue. 

We cannot afford to let a set of reckless 
and irresponsible claims stop this 
vital medical research. This panel and 
its investigation are a disgrace to this 
House of Representatives. We need to 
end this dangerous and unjustified 
witch hunt, and, instead of providing 
more funding for this divisive and dangerous 
inquisition, Congress should 
shut down this panel and put an end to 
its shameful proceedings. 

Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance 
of my time. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. PITTS). 

Mr. PITTS. I thank the gentleman. 
As a member of the select investigative 
panel, I rise in support of H. Res. 933. 

Madam Speaker, after the release of 
the undercover videos of Planned Parenthood, 
one little known tissue procurement 
company became a household 
name: StemExpress. They are one of 
the biggest players in the sale of abort-
ed-baby body parts in the United 
States. In clear violation of the intent 
of Federal law, they promise profits to 
abortion clinics in return for otherwise 
discarded—and I will use their quote— 
products of conception. 

The select panel learned that in order 
to make as much tissue available for 
sale as possible, and thus rake in huge 
profits, StemExpress sought to contract 
with the National Abortion Federation. 
Contracting with this network 
of abortion clinics would mean access 
to thousands of baby body parts, which 
StemExpress could procure, then turn 
around and sell at huge markups. 

Our investigation found that they 
had created a drop-down menu—here is 
a copy of part of it—on their Web site, 
such as one might find on Amazon.com, 
to facilitate their sales. Their buyers 
could select the gestational age, the 
type of tissue, and the number of specimens. 
For example, you could select 
three 12-week-old baby scalps, twelve 
14-week-old baby brains, one 15-week 
pair of baby eyes, or seven 16-week 
baby livers, to name just a few of the 
combinations. For crying out loud, this 
is the Amazon.com of baby body parts. 
It is outrageous. It is disgusting. It is a 
very disturbing practice that has been 
tucked away and out of sight for too 
long. 

The CEO of StemExpress told one undercover 
journalist over lunch and a 
glass of wine that some of the buyers’ 
lab techs ‘‘freak out and have meltdowns’’ 
when they see little baby hands 
and little baby feet attached to an 
order of limbs. So she makes sure her 
techs cut off the hands and the feet before 
shipping off boxes of these body 


H7088 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

parts. It is this callous, dark talk that 
has so many Americans concerned with 
the state of research in our country. 

The select panel is proud to support 
lifesaving ethical research, but, like 
the rest of America, my colleagues and 
I know that ethical boundaries do 
exist, and I hope StemExpress’ research 
will cease to come at the expense 
of unborn children who have had 
no say in the so-called donation of 
their body parts. Many years from now, 
we will look back on this practice as a 
dark and horrible time where humanity 
and human dignity lost to financial 
profits. We must end this horrific practice. 
I urge support for this resolution. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman 
from New York (Mr. NADLER), the distinguished 
member on our team of the 
select panel. 

Mr. NADLER. I thank the gentlewoman 
for yielding. 

Madam Speaker, from start to finish, 
this select panel has abused congressional 
power in order to intimidate and 
threaten private people and entities engaged 
in legal businesses in constitutionally 
protected health care. 

Republicans on the select panel have 
now spent $1.5 million on this so-called 
investigation. What do they have to 
show the American people for spending 
their hard-earned tax dollars? They 
have not presented any evidence that 
any entity broke the law surrounding 
fetal tissue donation or research. They 
have not presented any evidence that 
any entity or physician engaged in the 
horrifying behavior of which Republicans 
accuse them. We have heard 
today on this floor, as we have repeatedly 
from the select panel, the oft-
proven lies that Planned Parenthood 
sold fetal tissue for profit. We have 
heard the lie that the clearly doctored 
and disproven videotapes bore some relationship 
to reality. 

b 1500 
We have heard today on this floor, as 
we have repeatedly from the select 
panel, the oft disproved lies that 
Planned Parenthood sold fetal tissue 
for profit. We have heard the lie that 
the clearly doctored and disproved videotapes 
bore some relationship to reality. 
We have heard the disproved lie 
that StemExpress procured fetal tissue 
not for lifesaving medical research, but 
for profit. 
The Republicans have wasted countless 
hours and millions of dollars running 
in circles after evidence that 
doesn’t exist. They have insisted over 
and over again that entities name 
names, with no promise or plan to protect 
those individuals; and when asked 
to explain why they needed names, 
they simply refused to answer. When 
Republicans on the panel did get 
names, they released some of them 
publicly, even though they knew that 
doing so would expose the doctors, researchers, 
and other private individuals 
to harassment, threats, and even 
murder. 

The Republicans on the panel have 
repeatedly made baseless accusations 
of wrongdoing, with no concern for the 
consequences. They have had a chilling 
effect on lifesaving medical research 
through their intimidation tactics. 
They have flown in the face of congressional 
rules and abused congressional 
power to meet their own blatantly partisan 
ends. And now the Republicans 
on the select panel have the audacity 
to ask for more taxpayer money to 
fund this witch hunt. 

In words once addressed to the last 
Member of Congress to so clearly violate 
congressional authority, Senator 
Joseph McCarthy, I ask my Republican 
colleagues: ‘‘At long last, have you no 
sense of decency?’’ 

I call on all of my colleagues today 
to remember their decency. This grotesque 
and murderous panel should 
have been shut down long ago. Vote 
against the previous question, vote 
against this absurd funding bill, and 
stand up for the American taxpayer 
and for the dignity of this institution. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Tennessee (Mrs. BLACK). 

Mrs. BLACK. Madam Speaker, one of 
the striking discoveries we have made 
in this investigation has been the sheer 
number of laws implicated by the troubling 
actions of abortion providers, tissue 
procurement businesses, and researchers. 
One such law is the HIPAA 
privacy rule. 

The panel’s investigation uncovered 
a series of business contracts between 
StemExpress, which is a tissue procurement 
business that is not covered 
by HIPAA, and several abortion clinics 
that are. StemExpress paid fees to the 
abortion clinics for fetal tissue and 
maternal blood and then resold the 
fetal tissue and the blood to researchers. 


Here is a quick HIPAA privacy tutorial: 


The HIPAA privacy rule protects all 
individually identifiable health information, 
known as protected health information, 
or PHI, that is held or 
transmitted by a covered entity. This 
information identifies an individual or 
can reasonably be believed to be useful 
in identifying an individual, such as a 
name or an address, and includes demographic 
data related to her physical or 
mental health, condition, treatment, 
and payments. 

The panel’s investigation indicates 
that StemExpress and four abortion 
clinics, including three Planned Parenthood 
locations, committed systemic 
violations of a HIPAA privacy rule 
over a course of about 5 years. The 
abortion clinics provided patients’ private, 
protected health information to 
StemExpress to help them obtain 
human fetal tissue for resale. 

How did they do this? Well, the abortion 
clinics permitted the employees of 
StemExpress to enter their clinics to 
obtain human fetal tissue from the 
aborted infants, obtain protected 
health information about their pa


tients, interact with the patients, and, 
yes, even seek and obtain patient consent 
for the tissue donation. 

StemExpress did not have a medically 
valid reason to see, and the abortion 
clinics did not have a reason to 
disclose, the patients’ private information. 
Instead, the abortion clinics intentionally 
shared patients’ most intimate 
private information with 
StemExpress to financially benefit 
StemExpress and the clinics. 

The panel has made a referral of each 
of these entities to the Department of 
Health and Human Services and has requested 
a swift and full investigation 
by the HHS Office for Civil Rights. But 
more importantly, we have discovered 
a deeply concerning violation of a law 
that protects the most cherished privacy 
rights. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I just find it so hypocritical that the 
majority is talking about putting peoples’ 
private names out into the public 
when we have had people who have 
been attacked and lives threatened as a 
result of them putting names out 
there. 

Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to 
the gentlewoman from Washington 
(Ms. DELBENE), another distinguished 
member of our select panel. 

Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I rise 
in strong opposition. 

This resolution provides an additional 
$800,000 of taxpayer money to a 
select investigative panel that should 
never have been created in the first 
place. As a member of that panel, I can 
tell you it has been nothing more than 
a bully pulpit for the majority to 
spread extreme anti-choice falsehoods 
and fabrications, with no basis in reality. 
This so-called investigation has 
repeatedly shown contempt for the 
facts and disdain for the truth. 

Instead of carrying out a fair and evidence-
based process, the panel has 
spent the last year publicly targeting 
women’s healthcare providers, bullying 
scientists and medical students, delaying 
medical research, and trying to cut 
off lines of scientific inquiry, all because 
the majority opposes a woman’s 
constitutional right to choose. 

Now we are voting to double the panel’s 
budget. It is ridiculous. No one in 
this Chamber should be condoning this 
kind of harassment and intimidation, 
let alone approving hundreds of thousands 
of additional taxpayer dollar to 
do so. This has been a brazenly partisan 
and ideological witch hunt, and it 
should have been shut down months 
ago. 

Rather than wasting another $800,000 
on this dangerous panel, Congress 
could use that money to provide more 
than 270,000 school lunches to low-income 
students, purchase nearly 12,000 
textbooks to make higher education 
more affordable for college students, or 
purchase more than 3 million diapers 
to help new mothers care for their babies. 
But instead, that money will go 
toward intimidating doctors, harassing 
researchers, and delaying the progress 
of science. It is shameful. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7089 

We shouldn’t throw good many after 
bad by passing this legislation. I urge 
my colleagues to vote ‘‘no.’’ 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Indiana (Mr. BUCSHON), who is a medical 
doctor. 

Mr. BUCSHON. Madam Speaker, this 
is about infant lives, but I would like 
address what else it is about. It is 
about science and research. The other 
side seems to only want to focus on 
politics and scare tactics. 

From the beginning, we recognized 
the other side would try to avert attention 
from our investigation by falsely 
claiming we are opposed to science. As 
a doctor, I find that offensive, and I 
think it is a dangerous practice to introduce 
fear into important scientific 
debates. 

Every member of the panel is committed 
to medical research that finds 
cures. The rhetoric that we are opposed 
to cures for Zika, HIV, Alzheimer’s, or 
Parkinson’s is just ridiculous and 
wrong. 

The United States of America is a 
global leader in scientific research. We 
should all be proud of the research enterprise 
in our country and support it 
with tax dollars. The House Select 
Panel on Infant Lives shares this support. 
We are strongly committed to 
promoting both basic and clinical research. 


The goal of the House select panel is 
not to oppose science but, rather, to 
determine how best to support science 
so that this important work can advance 
as rapidly as possible without 
ethical compromise. As the history of 
biomedical research in the 20th century 
clearly demonstrates, when scientific 
research is separated from ethics or the 
law, grave injustice can occur. 

We here in Congress, like the rest of 
Americans, care deeply about protecting 
the rights of patients and ensuring 
ethical oversight of research 
procedures. These are not meant to 
‘‘hinder’’ advances in science but, rather, 
to ensure that the scientific enterprise 
more perfectly fulfills its promise 
to society by advancing in a manner 
that is both just and ethical. 

Through the panel’s investigation, 
we have discovered inaccuracies about 
the role of human fetal tissue and have 
sought to correct them to realistically 
address the obstacles facing research. 

Any argument from the 1950s—or 
even the 1990s, for that matter—about 
biomedical research is outdated, and 
the actual record is clear: human fetal 
tissue did not directly result in a vaccine 
for diseases like measles. Similarly, 
the Nobel Prize was not awarded 
for curing polio using human fetal tissue. 
In fact, of the 75 vaccines in use 
today, not one was produced using fetal 
tissue. 

Furthermore, the NIH has not funded 
fetal tissue transplant grants for nearly 
10 years. That should tell us something. 
We examined 30 major grants 
that were funded by the NIH over the 
last 5 years and found that human fetal 

tissue research represents only a tiny 
fraction of the overall scientific enterprise. 
In fact, only 0.2 percent used 
human fetal tissue. 

Hysterical calls for enhanced fetal 
tissue research through expanded abortion 
licenses are a matter of politics, 
not medicine or science. A small subset 
of NIH-funded grants use fetal tissue to 
study things like birth defects. These 
types of grants represent only 1 in 
100,000. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield the gentleman an additional 1 
minute. 

Mr. BUCSHON. Tissue or cells for 
these studies could be derived from another 
source than aborted babies, like 
premature natural demise infants 
whose parents are willing to donate. 
The other grants use fetal tissue when 
alternatives are easily available, like 
placenta, cord blood, or modified adult 
stem cells. 

Some grants even study adult 
macular degeneration. Research on 
adult macular degeneration should be 
conducted on adult donor eyes, but 
these grants are instead using fetal 
eyes from aborted infants—not because 
of science, but because of convenience. 

Madam Speaker, I know these things 
can be uncomfortable to discuss, but 
that is why the other side wants to 
avoid the facts and that is why this debate 
is so important. It is about conducting 
medical research in an ethical 
and just manner. So let’s sit down and 
talk science with the NIH and others so 
that research works for everyone in an 
ethical and moral way. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, may I 
inquire as to how much time is remaining? 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Mississippi has 14 minutes 
remaining, and the gentlewoman from 
Illinois has 211/2 minutes remaining. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from New Jersey (Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN). 


Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Madam 
Speaker, I am disappointed that we are 
here today asking the American taxpayers 
to waste another $800,000 on an 
unnecessary, dangerous investigation. 

This select panel was formed based 
on fraudulent videos created by anti-
abortion extremists to attack Planned 
Parenthood, an organization that has 
always fought for women’s rights and 
provides healthcare services to 3 million 
women and men each year. 

I was proud to be the first Member of 
Congress to speak out against these 
videos immediately after their release. 
And here we are, a year and a half 
later, with no evidence of wrongdoing 
after 17 separate investigations in 
three House committees, 13 States, and 
one grand jury. Yet Republicans continue 
to chase false, inflammatory allegations, 
at a severe cost to advances 
in medicine and to the safety of those 
involved in this lifesaving research. 

Panel Republicans have conducted 
themselves in ways reminiscent of Joe 
McCarthy’s abusive tactics: witnesses 
have been harassed and intimated during 
testimony; names of researchers, 
students, clinical personnel, and doctors 
have been released publicly, placing 
their lives in great danger; misleading 
‘‘exhibits’’ have been manufactured; 
critical documents have been 
withheld from Democrats; and Republicans 
have continued to fan the flames 
of anti-abortion extremism with their 
inflammatory rhetoric. 

Let us not forget the horrible tragedy 
that occurred in a Colorado 
Planned Parenthood clinic where a 
gunman shot 12 people and killed 3, 
echoing the same anti-abortion rhetoric 
used by Republicans to this day. 

What this investigation truly is is an 
attack on women’s rights and women’s 
access to legal health services. The select 
panel comes at a time when Republicans 
have repeatedly voted to 
defund Planned Parenthood, eliminate 
family planning services, and restrict 
access to abortions. 

This investigation dishonors this institution 
and hurts the American people 
that Congress is elected to serve. 
Let’s put an end to the witch hunt, 
stop wasting taxpayer dollars, and reject 
this resolution. 

b 1515 
Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER). 
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, 
the Select Investigative Panel on Infant 
Lives investigation has uncovered 
many valid concerns and potential law 
violations that are disturbing, horrific, 
and unacceptable. 
In the course of our investigation, we 
discovered a hardness, a callousness, 
and a track record of deceptive tactics 
that some abortion clinics and fetal 
tissue procurers exercised toward vulnerable 
women. It is difficult to imagine 
a more vulnerable time in a woman’s 
life than when she is considering 
an abortion. 
What if, during that time, the woman 
is lied to and told that, by having an 
abortion, she will facilitate research 
that will cure tragic diseases? 
This is exactly the type of concern 
that our panel addressed during our 
hearing on bioethics and fetal tissue. 
During that hearing, I shared a consent 
form widely used by abortion clinics to 
obtain a mother’s consent to donate 
fetal tissue. And the form stated that 
research using the blood from pregnant 
women and tissue that has been aborted 
has been used to treat and find a 
cure for such diseases as diabetes, Parkinson’s 
Disease, Alzheimer’s disease, 
cancer, and AIDS. This is clearly false. 
The witness, who is an ethics expert, 
agreed and he said that the idea of 
promise of cures found in the form was 
a ‘‘very powerful motivator.’’ He also 
expressed concern that the scientific 
community’s standards for fetal tissue 
donation are absent in that consent 


H7090 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

form, saying, ‘‘the thoroughness of the 
consent seems to be missing in this 
form.’’ 

A researcher for the minority testified 
during the hearing. He also agreed, 
stating the form would not have made 
it past his institutional review board. 
Yet, this is what is being used in abortion 
clinics with vulnerable women. 

In other words, the testimony provided 
by both of the witnesses from the 
majority and the minority raised concerns 
that the principles embodied in 
ethics reports, and later incorporating 
the Federal regulations, are not being 
followed by abortion providers seeking 
consent for the donation of human 
fetal tissue. 

We must raise this awareness, make 
sure people know, and make sure that 
women are protected. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Colorado (Ms. DEGETTE), not only 
someone who has been such a stalwart 
for women’s rights and reproductive 
rights, but the co-chair of the Pro-
Choice Caucus in the House of Representatives. 


(Ms. DEGETTE asked and was given 
permission to revise and extend her remarks.) 


Ms. DEGETTE. Madam Speaker, so 
this panel was supposed to be set up to 
investigate the alleged sale of fetal tissue, 
which is illegal under current law. 
That didn’t turn out so well. 

So now, as you can hear from the 
other side of the aisle, they are going 
after fetal tissue research itself, something 
that has been legal and used in 
an ethical way since the 1930s, something 
which has been used to find most 
vaccines and other cures for diseases in 
this country, something which a panel 
appointed by President Ronald Reagan, 
found unanimously in 1980 to be ethical. 


So I want to ask, Madam Speaker, 
what the heck are we being asked to 
spend another $800,000 on? 

The total funding for this witch hunt 
and this reckless endeavor is now more 
than $1.5 million. We have gone after 
women and punished them. We have 
gone after medical professionals and 
put their lives at risk, like what happened 
in my neighborhood of Colorado 
Springs, Colorado. We have put doctors 
and researchers on the line, and we 
have had a chilling effect on important 
biomedical research. 

I say enough is enough. We need to 
disband this select committee. We need 
to continue to make sure that we have 
ethical medical research in this country 
because, frankly, that will lead to 
the cures that affect diseases that affect 
millions of Americans. 

Mr. Speaker, from its start, the Select Panel 
has been nothing but a partisan witch hunt. 
The apparent goal of the Select Panel is to 
punish and intimidate women medical professionals 
and researchers who are following the 
law. Through wanton use of subpoenas, inflammatory 
language and release of private in-
formation—including addresses and phone 
numbers where those wishing to harass health 

care providers can find them—the Select 
Panel as put many, many people at risk. It has 
also threatened life-saving research and 
health care that these people provide. 

Make no mistake: this threat is very real. 
Clinics are picketed and fire-bombed, doctors 
and their families are targeted at their homes, 
and some have even been murdered. 

Furthermore, the Select Panel is trying to 
force universities and clinics to turn over the 
names of their researchers, graduate students, 
lab and clinic staff and doctors—for no legitimate 
congressional reason. Not since Joe 
McCarthy have we seen such abusive pressure 
tactics to ‘‘name names.’’ 

The Select Panel is acting as judge, jury, 
and executioner and endangering lives. It is 
time for Speaker RYAN to disband this panel— 
rather than let it gorge even more on taxpayer 
funds. 

Like the seventeen investigations that preceded 
it, the Select Panel has found no evidence 
of wrongdoing by Planned Parenthood, 
other providers, researchers or the companies 
that facilitate life-saving research and health 
care for women. 

The Washington Post editorial board called 
on Speaker RYAN to disband the Select Committee 
months ago, noting that it ‘‘has issued 
indiscriminate subpoenas, intimidated witnesses 
and relied on misleading information. It 
is abusing power at taxpayer expense, and 
Democrats are right to demand its shutdown.’’ 
The paper added, ‘‘There is no legitimate reason 
for this inquiry.’’ 

The Select Panel is a waste of funds, an attack 
on women’s rights, a danger to life-saving 
medical research and an abusive use of Congressional 
power for mere partisan gain. 

So Mr. Speaker, I say enough with the 
smear campaigns, fishing expeditions and 
endless stream of subpoenas. Congressional 
bullying to frighten women out of exercising 
their rights, and to drive researchers and 
healthcare providers out of business, has to 
stop. 

We in the minority have long called for the 
Select Committee to be disbanded before it 
does any more damage. I look forward to closing 
this shameful chapter in Congressional 
history at the end of this year. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Maryland (Mr. HARRIS), who is also a 
medical doctor. 

Mr. HARRIS. Madam Speaker, I am 
glad the gentlewoman talked about the 
need for ethical medical research because 
one of our panel’s accomplishments 
is to show how StemExpress undermined 
the very foundations of ethical 
American scientific research. 

First, Federal regulations require researchers 
to obtain informed consent 
from each person used as a subject. The 
basic element of informed consent includes 
a detailed explanation of the 
purposes of the research for which tissue 
is being obtained. StemExpress, as 
we found, simply did not follow that requirement. 


HHS regulations also require that in 
obtaining consent, researchers ‘‘minimize 
the possibility of coercion or 
undue influence.’’ Well, StemExpress 
documents that we uncovered shows 
that its employees were already promising 
to deliver baby body parts even 

before the abortions were performed. 
That raises serious concerns that there 
may have been coercion or undue influence 
on women to donate parts of their 
aborted babies. 

Now, second, Federal regulations require 
that all research that involves 
human subjects needs approval from an 
institutional review board, or IRB. As 
a medical researcher, I had to file IRB 
applications and receive IRB approval 
from my university’s IRB. 

Now, it turns out that StemExpress 
received their IRB approval from a 
company called BioMed IRB, a California 
firm that is basically an online, 
mail order IRB that the Federal Government 
actually barred for 2 years because 
they violated FDA rules in 
granting their IRB approval. 

The FDA gave the panel its file on 
BioMed IRB. Madam Speaker, that file 
literally was more than a foot high. 

HHS regulations require IRBs to 
‘‘prepare and maintain adequate documentation’’ 
of their activities, including: 
copies of all research proposals reviewed, 
records of continuing review 
activities, and copies of all correspondence 
between the IRB and the investigators, 
in this case, StemExpress’ 
founder and CEO, Cate Dyer. 

Now, the panel subpoenaed BioMed 
IRB for all documents related to its approval 
of StemExpress’ research protocol. 
BioMed IRB’s executive director 
informed the panel that, in regards to 
those records, ‘‘there are none.’’ In 
other words, BioMed clearly violated 
Federal regulations on IRBs. 

The head of BioMed went further. He 
told the panel to just bring on a contempt 
proceeding. That is the IRB 
StemExpress used. That says a lot 
about StemExpress’ motives and it 
says a lot about the accomplishments 
of the select panel. None of these 
shameful practices would have been 
discovered if not for the panel’s investigative 
work this year. 

As a physician and researcher, I 
know that if I had used the same shady 
tactics as StemExpress and BioMed 
IRB, at best, my research reputation 
would be at risk and, at worst, I would 
be facing prison. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from Connecticut (Ms. ESTY). 

Ms. ESTY. Madam Speaker, I rise 
today in opposition to H. Res. 933, legislation 
that would waste an additional 
800,000 taxpayer dollars on the partisan 
witch hunt against Planned Parenthood. 


I learned from a young age the value 
of making quality reproductive health 
care available to everyone. In the rural 
town I grew up in, too many young 
women didn’t have access to family 
planning services. Too many got pregnant, 
dropped out of school, and never 
pursued their dreams. That is why, in 
college, I volunteered with Planned 
Parenthood to ensure legal access to 
the full range of safe family planning 
services for all women. 

So instead of funding a sham investigation, 
$800,000 could fund lifesaving 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7091 

breast exams, pregnancy tests, Pap 
smears, and ovarian cancer screenings. 

Today I stand with women and men 
across this country to speak out 
against a baseless investigation, which 
has shamefully wasted tax dollars to 
attack the very people who most need 
our help. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman 
from Utah (Mrs. LOVE). 

Mrs. LOVE. Madam Speaker, my colleagues 
on the other side have said 
that the three House Committee investigations 
related to the sale of fetal 
tissue have produced nothing. Others 
have said that the State Attorney General 
investigations have also looked 
into the matter and have found nothing. 
They complain that this is a waste 
of time and they complain that it is a 
waste of money. 

First of all, there is so much that we 
don’t know and the American people 
don’t know and still don’t understand 
about this industry. However, since the 
panel’s investigation, we have uncovered 
alarming revelations about the 
fetal tissue industry and, because of 
this, there have been criminal and regulatory 
referrals. They have resulted in 
numerous investigations around the 
Nation, and I will highlight eight of 
these. 

First, the panel discovered that the 
University of New Mexico was violating 
their State’s Anatomical Gift 
Act by receiving tissue from late-term 
abortion clinics. This is currently 
being investigated. 

Second, the panel made a forensic accounting 
analysis of StemExpress’ limited 
production and determined that 
they were profiting from the sale of 
baby body parts. Now the El Dorado 
District Attorney and the United 
States Department of Justice are investigating 
this. 

Third, the panel learned that 
StemExpress and certain abortion clinics 
were violating HIPAA privacy 
rights of vulnerable women for the sole 
purpose of increasing and harvesting 
fetal tissue to make money. 

Fourth, the panel discovered that an 
abortion clinic in Arkansas violated 
State law when it sent tissue to 
StemExpress. This, too, is under investigation. 


Fifth, the panel discovered that a 
university in Ohio was trafficking in 
baby body parts, an illegal act under 
Ohio State law. 

Sixth, it was discovered that DV Biologics, 
another tissue procurement 
company, was profiting from the sale 
of fetal tissue and violated California 
State law. This case has been filed. 

Seventh, recently the panel learned 
that Planned Parenthood of Gulf Coast 
violated both Texas and U.S. law when 
it sold baby body parts to the University 
of Texas. 

Eighth, the panel also learned that 
Advanced Bioscience Resources made a 
profit when it sold tissue to various 
universities. 

As elected Representatives, we are 
tasked with oversight of our govern


ment that enforces our laws. These 
eight referrals are proof of potential 
criminal activity in the fetal tissue industry. 
They justify the existence of 
the panel and their investigations. 

The work of the select panel is not 
over. More referrals will come, and we 
need to complete this process. Continued 
funding for the panel’s unfinished 
work is needed. 

I urge my colleagues to support this 
resolution to fund the investigative 
work and fulfill the obligations that we 
have to the American people and the 
rule of law. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
let me just say that bogus referrals do 
not a conviction make, and that 
StemExpress had offered many times 
to come in with its procurement officers 
and answer all the questions. They 
were denied that. 

Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to 
the gentlewoman from Massachusetts 
(Ms. CLARK). 

Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. 
Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman 
for yielding. 

Republicans today are asking us to 
spend more than $1.5 million to conduct 
a radical, dangerous inquisition 
that targets and intimidates private 
citizens. 

To satisfy their seemingly unquenchable 
obsession with rolling back women’s 
reproductive rights and access to 
basic health care, this overreaching 
panel recklessly has demanded names, 
and interferes in the lives of law-abiding 
students, scientists, and researchers 
whose private lives and jobs have 
been turned upside down by their own 
government. 

What do we have to show for this display 
of government abuse? 

Absolutely nothing. In fact, it is 
worse than nothing. 

Today, they are invoking institutional 
responsibility to ask the taxpayers 
to foot a bill for $800,000 of their 
own cost overruns. This is money that 
could have been used to help families, 
feed the hungry, help our veterans and 
military families, and go toward education. 


I urge my colleagues to reject this 
dangerous abuse of power and taxpayer 
funding. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from 
Wisconsin (Mr. DUFFY). 

Mr. DUFFY. Madam Speaker, I 
thank the gentleman from Mississippi 
for yielding. 

Let’s be really clear about what this 
is about. This is about following the 
law. We negotiate, we vote, we pass 
laws, the President signs them, and 
they should be enforced. That is what 
this conversation is about, Madam 
Speaker. 

StemExpress has thumbed its nose 
against the select investigative panel 
and obstructed our efforts to bring 
light to the fetal tissue procurement 
industry. 

b 1530 
Nearly a year ago, the panel requested 
information from StemExpress 

regarding where they procured their 
fetal tissue, whom they distributed the 
fetal tissue to, any communications instructing 
the company’s employees to 
procure fetal tissue, and all accounting 
records and banking records related to 
fetal tissue. 

StemExpress, in response to that request, 
has given us none—zero—no document. 
So to compel StemExpress to 
provide the panel with this information, 
the panel issued the company a 
subpoena. Instead of complying with 
the subpoena, StemExpress only turned 
over limited information to the panel, 
and the information that they turned 
over to us was so heavily redacted that 
it was completely useless for investigative 
purposes. 

To date, the select panel has not received 
a single accounting or bank 
record from StemExpress. So they have 
failed to comply with our requests and 
our subpoenas in violation of the law. 

If StemExpress is within the limits of 
the law, if nothing is illegal or immoral, 
then why does StemExpress 
refuse to turn over all the documents 
that our panel has requested? Opening 
your accounting records to a congressional 
panel shouldn’t be that difficult. 

StemExpress has had plenty of time 
to get their act together and provide us 
with the requested documents that we 
have asked for. Other organizations 
that we have reached out to and made 
the same requests to have turned over 
the documents in a pretty timely fashion. 


For failure to comply with our subpoenas, 
this panel has recommended 
the House hold Cate Dyer, the CEO of 
StemExpress, in contempt of Congress. 

Despite StemExpress’ best efforts to 
stonewall this investigation, the panel 
did find out the name of StemExpress’ 
bank which we subpoenaed. The bank 
provided us with StemExpress’ banking 
records. So, again, StemExpress won’t 
give us the records, but we got them 
from the bank. 

We now know why StemExpress was 
hiding these documents. The banking 
records reveal that StemExpress may 
have been shredding documents that 
were directly related to this panel’s investigation. 
The bank records show 
that payments were made to a shredding 
company—a shredding company. 
We looked back at all the records we 
sought from StemExpress back to 2012, 
and there is no payments to a shredding 
company. But when this panel 
started its investigation and when we 
started asking for documentation, 
guess what? You have bank records 
that show they hired a shredding company. 
Why hire a shredding company 
when we were starting our investigation? 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, may I 
inquire as to how much time is remaining. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman 
from Mississippi has 3 minutes 
remaining. The gentlewoman from Illinois 
has 16 minutes remaining. 


H7092 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield the gentleman an additional 1 
minute. 

Mr. DUFFY. Madam Speaker, there 
is no cause and no reason why 
StemExpress would allegedly shred 
these documents. We both know on 
both sides of the aisle—though we may 
have a disagreement on this issue— 
that when this Congress sends a lawful 
request to an institution, they are required 
to provide the documents that 
are requested. Both sides of the aisle 
know that when we send a subpoena, 
those who are subpoenaed are required 
to provide those documents to us. 

So if StemExpress has failed to comply 
with these requests and these subpoenas, 
and if they are willing to violate 
the law in regard to subpoenas to 
hide information, the question becomes: 
What laws are they willing to 
violate in regard to the sale of baby 
body parts? I think that question deserves 
to be answered by StemExpress, 
by this institution, and for the American 
people. 

So I would ask support for this additional 
funding to complete this investigation 
and provide documentation to 
this country and to this House about 
what has been taking place in regard to 
the procurement and sale of fetal tissue. 


1. Date of Congressional Action: August 7, 
2015. 
a. Event: Energy & Commerce Committee 
letter to StemExpress requesting a briefing. 
b. Date of StemExpress Payment to Shred-
It Us: August 13, 2015. 
2. Date of Congressional Action: August 21, 
2015. 
a. Event: StemExpress briefing to Energy 
& Commerce Committee. 
b. Date of StemExpress Payment to Shred-
It Us: August 13, 2015. 
3. Date of Congressional Action: September 
17, 2015. 
a. Event: Senate Judiciary Committee document 
request letter to StemExpress. 
b. Date of StemExpress Payment to Shred-
It Us: September 29, 2015; November 10, 2015; 
December 10, 2015. 
4. Date of Congressional Action: December 
17, 2015. 
a. Event: Select Investigative Panel document 
request letter to StemExpress. 
b. Date of StemExpress Payment to Shred-
It Us: January 12, 2016. 
5. Date of Congressional Action: January 
15, 2016. 
a. Event: StemExpress first production in 
response to Select Panel document request 
letter. 
b. Date of StemExpress Payment to Shred-
It Us: January 12, 2016. 
6. Date of Congressional Action: February 
9, 2016. 
a. Event: StemExpress production in response 
to Select Panel document request letter. 
b. Date of StemExpress Payment to Shred-
It Us: January 27, 2016. 
7. Date of Congressional Action: February 
12, 2016. 
a. Event: Select Panel Subpoena to 
StemExpres. 
b. Date of StemExpress Payment to Shred-
It Us. 
8. Date of Congressional Action: March 28, 
2016. 
a. Event: StemExpress production in response 
to Panel subpoena. 
b. Date of StemExpress Payment to Shred-
It Us: March 21, 2016. 
9. Date of Congressional Action: May 10, 
2016. 
a. Event: StemExpress production in response 
to Panel subpoena. 
b. Date of StemExpress Payment to Shred-
It Us: April 26, 2016. 
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. EVANS) who is a new 
Member. He has served over three decades 
in the Pennsylvania legislature 
and now has joined us. 
Mr. EVANS. Madam Speaker, I would 
like to thank the gentlewoman from Illinois. 
In the short 2 weeks that I have been 
here, Madam Speaker, I have observed 
a lot of interesting things take place. 
But what I especially have observed at 
this particular point, Madam Speaker, 
is that the American taxpayers 
shouldn’t be asked to spend another 
$800,000 on an unnecessary and dangerous 
selective investigation. 
Don’t take my word, Madam Speaker, 
look at the aspect of quotes from 
around the United States. 
The Tennessean: ‘‘Right now, the 
panel is creating the perception that it 
is embroiled in a wild goose chase.’’ 
The New York Times: ‘‘Neither the 
videos nor the many investigations 
that followed have found any evidence 
that Planned Parenthood offered to sell 
fetal tissue for a profit.’’ 
‘‘Elected officials should not use the 
power of the office to intimidate citizens 
who hold different points of view.’’ 
The New York Times: ‘‘Nor is there 
any reason to conduct this investigation 
. . . Republicans are pointlessly 
attacking a practice that could save 
lives and, in the process, potentially 
putting researchers’ lives at risk.’’ 
The Hill: ‘‘The committee is abusing 
its power and the effect is very troubling 
for researchers and patients 
alike.’’ 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield the gentleman an additional 1 
minute. 
Mr. EVANS. The fact is Planned Parenthood 
does not sell fetal tissue for 
profit and never has. A Republican-led 
House panel is undeterred and conducting 
its own investigation and, 
more accurately, witch hunt. Even 
more troubling is the considerable 
time and money that will be wasted on 
this political damage to health care 
and medical research. 
Madam Speaker, this is not needed. 
We should be against it. 
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from California (Ms. JUDY CHU). 
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Today, 
Republicans are asking taxpayers to 
spend $800,000 to cover for their mistakes. 
The select panel to investigate 
Planned Parenthood, which was created 
based on lies spread by anti-abortion 
extremists, has already overspent 
the $1 million this Republican Congress 
has allocated them with no real find


ings. Now they want to continue their 
attack on women and Planned Parenthood. 
This is outrageous. 

This select panel—along with 13 
States, three House committees, and a 
Texas grand jury investigation—has 
found no wrongdoing on the part of 
Planned Parenthood. It is clear that, 
after over a year of investigations, Republicans 
are not seeking truth or better 
policy. 

Instead, this panel has released confidential 
documents to the public, compared 
researchers to Nazi war criminals, 
and exposed doctors and researchers 
to harassment and violence. We 
cannot continue to fund this fruitless 
witch hunt that endangers our researchers 
and slows important medical 
discoveries. 

I strongly oppose this committee and 
urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no.’’ 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, may I 
inquire as to how many additional 
speakers the minority may have? 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
we have six additional speakers and 
still, I think, some additional time beyond 
that. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. ROTHFUS). 

Mr. ROTHFUS. Madam Speaker, I 
rise today in support of this resolution. 
The Select Investigative Panel on Infant 
Lives has been investigating potential 
violations of the Federal law 
that makes it illegal to sell fetal tis-
sue—that is body parts—for profit. The 
evidence reveals appalling practices. 
For example, on video, we saw a 
Planned Parenthood doctor talking 
about doing ‘‘less crunchy’’ types of 
abortion. That was to make sure they 
had intact body parts to sell. 

The gruesome practices the panel discovered 
shocked the conscience. Where 
does this end? 

Consider this: It was startling to 
learn that the University of New Mexico 
had a summer camp program in 
which students dissected the brains of 
unborn children. According to documents 
obtained by the panel, the university 
ordered from a late-term abortion 
doctor ‘‘whole, fixed brains to dissect 
with summer camp students.’’ 

Think about that. We are talking 
about students—teenagers—dissecting 
the brains of someone within the age 
group of their own siblings. What barbarity 
are we teaching our children? 
How seared have our consciences become? 


The select panel must move forward 
with its investigation into these alarming 
violations of law and assaults on 
human dignity and conscience. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
California (Mr. RUIZ) who is a doctor. 

Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise in 
strong opposition to H. Res. 933. I oppose 
funding for the select panel to attack 
and intimidate women’s health 
care. 

The select panel is a baseless committee 
formed with no regard to the 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7093 

facts or evidence of this case. In fact, 
the creators of the purposefully doctored 
and highly manipulated videos 
that they consistently bring up that 
this investigation is based on have 
been indicted on criminal felony 
charges, and we should be investigating 
their legal practices instead. Continuing 
to fund this panel is a disgrace, 
and this investigation must cease immediately. 


Instead of taking action that would 
improve the lives of women and families 
across the country, this panel continues 
to chase baseless allegations. 

As an emergency physician, I am exceptionally 
disappointed. The reckless 
work of the panel puts women’s reproductive 
rights in jeopardy and threatens 
to undo the progress we have made 
over the last 40 years. It is also a complete 
waste of taxpayer money. 

I stand in strong opposition to this 
resolution and call on this panel to be 
disbanded. Let’s take real action to improve 
the health and well-being of this 
country. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE) who is my 
friend. 

Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I 
thank the gentlewoman from Illinois. 

Madam Speaker, I rise today in strident 
opposition to H. Res. 933. 

Madam Speaker, we have heard so 
much about fake news lately, and now 
we are being asked for taxpayer funding 
for fake congressional committees. 
This resolution provides another 800,000 
taxpayer dollars to the Republicans’ 
ongoing hatchet job against Planned 
Parenthood. We already know the facts 
on the faked Planned Parenthood videos 
and the unethical videographer. 
The fake committee’s only goal is to 
create Orwellian unfacts. 

So far, this fake committee has found 
no wrongdoing by Planned Parenthood 
or their doctors. Of course, this panel 
knows that they wouldn’t find anything 
because Planned Parenthood has 
been cleared of wrongdoing 17 times by 
three different House committees, 17 
State investigations, and a grand jury. 

Now, despite all this, Republicans 
want to waste more taxpayer dollars. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentlewoman has expired. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield the gentlewoman an additional 
30 seconds. 

Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, despite 
all this, Republicans want to waste 
more taxpayer dollars for their smear 
campaign, money that could be used on 
meaningful measures to reduce infant 
mortality, feed hungry children, or improve 
early childhood education. What 
we really need to get to the bottom of 
is: What will it take to get Republicans 
to get the target off women’s backs? 

Do that, and we might actually make 
some progress. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Michigan (Mr. KILDEE). 

Mr. KILDEE. Madam Speaker, I 
thank my friend and colleague for her 
leadership and for yielding. 

Let’s just be clear. We know what 
this is. This is yet another attempt to 
fund with Federal taxpayer dollars a 
Republican messaging effort to attack 
Planned Parenthood. 

More than 2.5 million people—2.5 million 
women—every year rely on 
Planned Parenthood for lifesaving cancer 
screenings and for other health 
services. We have important legislative 
work to do, and we ought not be using 
taxpayer dollars to fund this effort 
which has clearly been described in all 
sorts of lofty tones but is essentially a 
political witch hunt after an organization 
that provides essential services to 
women. 

The majority cannot deny the 
chilling effect that this effort has had 
on medical research. It has already 
been revealed that this is also an attack 
on stem cell research. You just 
have to listen to the debate. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
time of the gentleman has expired. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield the gentleman an additional 30 
seconds. 

Mr. KILDEE. We need to make sure 
that we are pursuing scientific research 
to fight diseases like diabetes, 
like Alzheimer’s, and like multiple 
sclerosis, a disease my wife, Jennifer, 
has been fighting for 18 years. 

b 1545 

We are one of those families that, 
when we hear about medical research 
and we hear about stem cell research, 
in particular, our ears perk up because 
we know there is hope in that research. 

This effort—no matter what anybody 
wants to say, it is well documented— 
has had a chilling effect on that medical 
research, and we ought to shut this 
down. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I continue 
to reserve the balance of my 
time. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from 
Florida (Mr. DEUTCH). 

Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I 
thank my friend, the gentlewoman 
from Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) for 
yielding. 

Madam Speaker, it is time to move 
on from this dangerous, partisan, and 
wasteful investigation into Planned 
Parenthood. This case is closed—after 
investigations with 13 States, three 
House committees, and a Texas Grand 
Jury that found no wrongdoing by 
Planned Parenthood. 

The majority wants $1.5 million from 
the American taxpayers to fund this 
dangerous sham when they know that 
they will never find evidence of wrongdoing 
by Planned Parenthood. 

But the evidence doesn’t matter, 
Madam Speaker. The majority knows 
that, if they keep this farce in the 
headlines, it will do real damage to 
women seeking health care. They know 
that it will feed fake news sites on the 
Internet. They know that it will block 
women from exercising their constitutional 
rights. And they know that it 

will unfairly harass women’s health 
clinics. Madam Speaker, they know 
that this will put abortion providers 
and their staff in danger. 

This panel serves no true investigatory 
purpose. It is a political tool. It is 
a disgrace. 

I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no.’’ 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I continue 
to reserve the balance of my 
time. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
if I could inquire how much time I have 
left. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman 
from Illinois has 81/2 minutes 
remaining. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from California (Ms. LEE). 

Ms. LEE. Madam Speaker, I thank 
Congresswoman SCHAKOWSKY for yielding 
and for her tremendous leadership 
on this issue and so many issues that 
affect women. 

I rise in strong opposition to H. Res. 
933, which is nothing more than a politically 
motivated resolution. It would 
shamefully—shamefully—provide an 
additional $800,000 to the select investigative 
panel to so-called investigate 
Planned Parenthood and attack women’s 
health. 

Republicans are asking for more 
money to continue their baseless attacks 
to undermine medical and scientific 
research and intimidate and 
harass providers. How outrageous. 
Let’s be clear. This is yet another attempt 
to deny women, especially low-
income women, access to health care. 

There have been multiple hearings 
and there have been committee investigations, 
none of which have resulted 
in any evidence of wrongdoing by 
Planned Parenthood, doctors, or researchers. 


Madam Speaker, this resolution and 
the absurd select panel investigation 
amounts to nothing more than a witch 
hunt. Instead of wasting millions of 
taxpayer dollars on this smear campaign, 
we should be fully investing in 
women’s health and childcare. 

I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on 
this dangerous resolution and, instead, 
call for an end of the select panel to attack 
women’s health. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I continue 
to reserve the balance of my 
time. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman 
from Florida (Ms. FRANKEL). 

Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. Madam 
Speaker, I join my Democratic colleagues 
in opposing funding for a legislative 
panel that, instead of protecting, 
is jeopardizing life. Just ask the wife 
and 4 children and 10 grandchildren of 
George Tiller, a good doctor, who, 
while attending church, was shot dead 
by an anti-abortion extremist. His 
loved ones know the tragic consequences 
of having a target on one’s 
back. And what this panel is doing is 
funding and creating new targets. 

Reports naming names with bogus 
accusations; every day, clinics dealing 


H7094 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

with social media threats, bomb scares, 
harassment. We are playing deadly politics 
here, endangering lives and halting 
lifesaving medical breakthroughs. 
Enough is enough. 

I urge my colleagues to oppose this 
resolution. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I continue 
to reserve the balance of my 
time. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I yield myself such time as I may consume. 


I just want to say a few things before 
yielding to the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
(Mr. BRADY). 

We have heard a lot of accusations 
against certain businesses, et cetera, 
and institutions, and the Republicans 
have selectively and repeatedly released 
documents and letters, including 
a so-called criminal referral to the New 
Mexico attorney general, to the press 
before sending them or sharing them 
with Democrats. This is clearly a political 
move. 

They have also manufactured their 
own misleading so-called exhibits and 
withheld documents and information 
from Democrats in violation of the 
House rules. They have abused their 
power throughout the whole time and 
should now not be allowed to continue 
to get any more money for this panel. 

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues 
to defeat the previous question. 
If we defeat the previous question, I 
would offer an amendment to the resolution 
that would abolish the select 
panel instead of funding it. Let’s be 
done with this once and for all. 

Madam Speaker, I yield the remainder 
of my time to the gentleman from 
Pennsylvania (Mr. BRADY). 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Madam 
Speaker, I also urge my colleagues to 
vote ‘‘no’’ on H. Res. 933. 

I reserved a little bit of my time because 
I thought that this would be the 
last time that our chairman, CANDICE 
MILLER, would be here orchestrating 
the resolution. Instead we got my dear 
friend, Mr. HARPER. That is okay. We 
will take the second. 

CANDICE MILLER is going on to other 
things, and we wish her well. She is on 
other endeavors, and it is bittersweet. 
The sweetness is that she is leaving 
here and going home. The bitterness is 
that she is leaving here and going 
home. She has been a great chairman. 
We have had the pleasure of working 
together. We agreed 99.9 percent of the 
time. Without question, she was the 
classiest lady—without question, the 
classiest person, not only the classiest 
lady—in this institution. 

Again, I wish her well. And whatever 
I can do—if I am ever in Michigan, I am 
going to stop to see her; if she is ever 
in Philadelphia, she can come to see 
me; and if she comes back here, I would 
love to see her again. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I reserve the balance of my time. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield myself such time as I may consume. 


I share that admiration for CANDICE 
MILLER, who will be leaving at the end 
of this term. It has been great to see 
the working relationship that Mr. 
BRADY and Mrs. MILLER have had together 
on the Committee on House Administration. 
It has been an excellent 
example of how this place can operate. 

Let us come together, though, here 
to fulfill our responsibility to one of 
the House’s standing committees and 
provide the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce, both the majority and the 
minority, the funding that they need 
to finish their work this year. 

I reserve the balance of my time. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, 
I ask unanimous consent to insert the 
text of the amendment in the RECORD 
along with extraneous material immediately 
prior to the vote on the previous 
question. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentlewoman 
from Illinois? 

There was no objection. 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. I yield back the 
balance of my time. 

Ms. SLAUGHTER. Madam Speaker, the Select 
Investigative Panel was created solely to 
attack Planned Parenthood and intimidate 
women, health care providers, and scientific 
researchers. Its investigation has never been 
fair or fact-based. 

It is shameful that the Majority is continuing 
to use the taxpayer’s money to advance its 
own political purposes. This privileged resolution 
would waste another $800,000 of the 
American people’s tax dollars on this partisan 
witch hunt. The Majority is now on track to 
spend more than $1.5 million on this dangerous 
smear campaign. 

Madam Speaker, I call on every Member of 
the House who does not want to fund witch 
hunts to support Ms. SCHAKOWSKY’s amendment. 


Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, as a 
senior member of the Judiciary, and Ranking 
Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, 
Homeland Security, and Investigations, 
I rise in strong opposition to H. Res. 933, 
which would increase funding by $800,000 for 
the Select Investigative Panel of the Energy 
and Commerce Committee, which more accurately 
should be called the ‘‘Planned Parenthood 
Witchunt.’’ 

The ostensible purpose of this Select Investigative 
Panel is to investigate and report on 
all issues related to medical procedures and 
practices involving fetal tissue donation and 
procurement; federal funding and support for 
abortion providers; and late-term abortions. 

But make no mistake, the Republican majority’s 
real purpose in establishing this panel is 

(1) to open another front in their ongoing War 
Against Women, (2) impede women in the exercise 
of their right to make their own choices 
when it comes to their reproductive health, 
and (3) to persecute, smear, and demonize 
Planned Parenthood. 
We know this from our experience with the 
so-called ‘‘Benghazi Committee,’’ which the 
Republican leadership claimed was a nonpartisan 
inquiry into the facts and circumstances 
surrounding the 2012 tragedy in 
Libya which claimed the lives of four brave 
and heroic Americans. 

We know now, as confirmed by the Majority 
Leader and the Speaker-apparent, that the 

Benghazi Committee was in reality part of politically-
motivated strategy to disparage and 
damage the former Secretary of State and 
leading candidate for the Democratic presidential 
nomination that wasted $4.5 million of 
the taxpayers’ money. 

Madam Speaker, with so many pressing 
challenges facing our nation, wasting time and 
taxpayer money on another partisan witch 
hunt is a luxury we simply cannot afford. 

The structure and powers to be given the 
Select Investigative Panel does not inspire any 
confidence that it will operate in a fair and impartial 
manner. 

For example, the composition of the committee 
is lopsided in favor of the majority (8 
Republican; 5 Democrat), instead of more 
equally divided as select committees are comprised. 


Second, the chairman of the select panel is 
given subpoena power and deposition authority, 
including the authority to order the taking 
of depositions by a member of the select 
panel or the panel’s counsel. 

Third, the the chairman of the select committee 
is authorized to recognize members to 
question witness for periods longer than the 
traditional five minutes and to recognize staff 
to question witnesses. 

Taken together, these unusual powers are 
susceptible to abuse and are valued tools to 
any party wishing to conduct a fishing expedition 
as opposed to a dispassionate search for 
facts. 

Madam Speaker, let me save our Republican 
colleagues some time by pointing out the 
facts that an objective, fair-minded inquiry 
would reveal. 

In 2011, approximately 1.06 million abortions 
took place in the U.S., down from an estimated 
1.21 million abortions in 2008, 1.29 
million in 2002, 1.31 million in 2000 and 1.36 
million in 1996. 

Based on available state-level data, an estimated 
984,000 abortions took place in 2013— 
down from an estimated 1.02 million abortions 
in 2012. 

Fetal tissue research has been scientifically 
accepted since the Regan Administration. 

In 1988 the Human Fetal Tissue Transplantation 
Research Panel (or the Blue Ribbon 
Commission) sought to separate the question 
of ethics of abortion from the question ethics 
of using fetal tissue from legal elective abortions 
for medical research. 

The report of this commission laid the foundation 
for the NIH Health Revitalization Act of 
1993 (which passed overwhelmingly with bipartisan 
support), prohibits the payment or receipt 
of money or any other form of valuable 
consideration for fetal tissue, regardless of 
whether the program to which the tissue is 
being provided is funded or not. 

The law contains a limited exception that 
permits reimbursement for actual expenses 

(e.g. storage, processing, transportation, etc.) 
of the tissue. 
These fees generally amount to less than 
$100. 
Less than 1 percent of Planned Parenthood 
chapters participate in this area of research. 
Planned Parenthood reports revenue by 
source (either government or non-government) 
rather than the manner of disbursement (income 
versus grants and contracts). 

Payments from Medicaid managed care 
plans are listed as ‘‘Government Health Services 
Grants and Reimbursements’’ to reflect 
the ultimate source of the funds. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7095 

Planned Parenthood spends about $1.1 billion 
annually on 11.4 million services, 83 percent 
of which is spent on research, client services 
and education. 

Client services are divided into six categories: 
Cancer Prevention and Screenings, 
STI Testing, Contraception, Abortion Services, 
Other Women’s Health Services & Other Services. 


According to Planned Parenthood financial 
statements from 2009 through 2014, 86 percent 
of Planned Parenthood’s Services fall 
under the categories of Cancer Prevention 
and Screenings (12–16 percent), STI Testing 
for men and women (35–41 percent), and 
Contraception (32–35 percent). 

Only about about 3 percent of its services 
fall under the Abortion category nationally. 

Additionally, Planned Parenthood is already 
prohibited from spending federal funds on 
abortion services anyway. 

Finally, Madam Speaker, H. Res. 933 is an 
irresponsible diversion from tackling and addressing 
the following critical challenges facing 
this Congress and the American people. 

Funding to keep the government open expires 
on December 9 and Congress must find 
a way to keep the government open in the 
face of irresponsible opposition from 151 Republicans 
who previously voted to shut down 
the government rather than allow women access 
to affordable family planning and life-saving 
preventive health care. 

Madam Speaker, we have far more important 
things to do than waste more time and 
taxpayer money on another partisan attempt 
to deprive women of their right to make their 
own decisions regarding their reproductive 
health that has been recognized as constitutionally 
guaranteed since 1973 by the Supreme 
Court decision in Roe v. Wade. 

I oppose H. Res. 933 and urge all Members 
to join me in voting against this wasteful and 
irresponsible measure. 

HEALTH IMPACT OF PLANNED PARENTHOOD 

AFFILIATES 

BY THE NUMBERS 

378,692—Pap tests performed. 

487,029—breast exams performed. 

87,988—women whose cancer was detected 
early or whose abnormalities were identified. 

865,721—Total Pap tests and breast exams 
performed. 

1,440,495—emergency contraception kits 
provided. 

516,000—unintended pregnancies averted by 
contraceptive services. 

3,577,348—Birth control information and 
services provided. 

704,079—HIV tests conducted. 

169,008—STIs diagnosed, enabling people to 
get treatment and to learn how to prevent 
the further spread of STIs. 

4,470,597—Tests and treatment for sexually 
transmitted infections provided. 

Planned Parenthood health centers saw 2.7 
million patients, who collectively received 

10.6 million services during 4.6 million clinical 
visits. 

PARENTHOOD CLIENTS RECEIVING 

CONTRACEPTIVE SERVICES IN 2013 

42 percent—STI/STD Testing & Treatment. 

11 percent—Other Women’s Health Services. 


3 percent—Abortion Services. 

1 percent—Other Services. 

9 percent—Cancer Screening and Prevention. 


34 percent—Contraception. 

MEDICAL SERVICES PROVIDED BY AFFILIATES 

(2013) 

STI/STD Testing & Treatment Total: 

4,470,597. 
STI Tests, Women and Men: 3,727,359. 
Genital Warts (HPV) Treatments: 38,612. 

HIV Tests, Women and Men: 704,079. 

Other Treatments: 547. 

Contraception Total: 3,577,348. 

Reversible Contraception Clients, Women 
2,131,865. 

Emergency Contraception Kits 1,440,495. 

Female Sterilization Procedures 822. 

Vasectomy Clients 4,166. 

Cancer Screening and Prevention Total: 

935,573. 

Pap Tests 378,692. 

HPV Vaccinations 34,739. 

Breast Exams/Breast Care 487,029. 

Colposcopy Procedures 32,334. 

LEEP Procedures 2,095. 

Cryotherapy Procedures 684. 

Other Women’s Health Services Total: 

1,147,467. 

Pregnancy Tests 1,128,783. 

Prenatal Services 18,684. 

Abortion Services Total: Abortion Proce


dures 327,653. 

Other Services Total: 131,795. 

Family Practice Services, Women and Men 

65,464. 

Adoption Referrals to Other Agencies 1,880. 

Urinary Tract Infections Treatments 

47,264. 

Other Procedures, Women and Men 517,187. 

Total of All Services Provided: 10,590,433. 

GOVERNMENT FUNDING FOR PLANNED 
PARENTHOOD 
National and Affiliate Chapters (FY2004– 
FY2014) 

$4,529,900,000: Amount that Planned Parenthood 
and its affiliates have received in 
government funding over the last ten years, 
according to the organization’s annual reports. 


This represents less than half, approximately 
45 percent, of the organization total 
revenues. 

There are 38 Planned Parenthood locations 
in Texas. 

Planned Parenthood reports revenue by 
source (either government or non-government) 
rather than the manner of disbursement 
(income versus grants and contracts). 

Payments from Medicaid managed care 
plans are listed as ‘‘Government Health 
Services Grants and Reimbursements’’ to reflect 
the ultimate source of the funds. 

The government funding comes from both 
federal and state governments. 

Government Health Service Grants and Reimbursements: 


FY 2014: $528.5 million. 

FY 2013: $540.6 million. 

FY 2012: $542.4 million. 

FY 2011: $538.5 million. 

FY 2010: $487.4 million. 

FY 2009: $363 million. 

FY 2008: $349.6 million. 

FY 2007: $336.7 million. 

FY 2006: $305.3 million. 

FY 2005: $272.7 million. 

FY 2004: $265.2 million. 

The material previously referred to 
by Ms. SCHAKOWSKY is as follows: 
AN AMENDMENT TO H. RES. 933 OFFERED BY 
MS. SCHAKOWSKY 
Strike all after the resolved clause and insert: 
That the Select Investigative Panel of the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce established 
pursuant to House Resolution 461, 
agreed to October 7, 2015, is hereby terminated. 


THE VOTE ON THE PREVIOUS QUESTION: WHAT 

IT REALLY MEANS 

This vote, the vote on whether to order the 
previous question on a special rule, is not 
merely a procedural vote. A vote against ordering 
the previous question is a vote 
against the Republican majority agenda and 
a vote to allow the Democratic minority to 
offer an alternative plan. It is a vote about 
what the House should be debating. 

Mr. Clarence Cannon’s Precedents of the 
House of Representatives (VI, 308–311), describes 
the vote on the previous question on 

the rule as ‘‘a motion to direct or control the 
consideration of the subject before the House 
being made by the Member in charge.’’ To 
defeat the previous question is to give the 
opposition a chance to decide the subject before 
the House. Cannon cites the Speaker’s 
ruling of January 13, 1920, to the effect that 
‘‘the refusal of the House to sustain the demand 
for the previous question passes the 
control of the resolution to the opposition’’ 
in order to offer an amendment. On March 
15, 1909, a member of the majority party offered 
a rule resolution. The House defeated 
the previous question and a member of the 
opposition rose to a parliamentary inquiry, 
asking who was entitled to recognition. 
Speaker Joseph G. Cannon (R-Illinois) said: 
‘‘The previous question having been refused, 
the gentleman from New York, Mr. Fitzgerald, 
who had asked the gentleman to 
yield to him for an amendment, is entitled to 
the first recognition.’’ 

The Republican majority may say ‘‘the 
vote on the previous question is simply a 
vote on whether to proceed to an immediate 
vote on adopting the resolution . . . [and] 
has no substantive legislative or policy implications 
whatsoever.’’ But that is not what 
they have always said. Listen to the Republican 
Leadership Manual on the Legislative 
Process in the United States House of Representatives, 
(6th edition, page 135). Here’s 
how the Republicans describe the previous 
question vote in their own manual: ‘‘Although 
it is generally not possible to amend 
the rule because the majority Member controlling 
the time will not yield for the purpose 
of offering an amendment, the same result 
may be achieved by voting down the previous 
question on the rule. . . . When the 
motion for the previous question is defeated, 
control of the time passes to the Member 
who led the opposition to ordering the previous 
question. That Member, because he 
then controls the time, may offer an amendment 
to the rule, or yield for the purpose of 
amendment.’’ 

In Deschler’s Procedure in the U.S. House 
of Representatives, the subchapter titled 
‘‘Amending Special Rules’’ states: ‘‘a refusal 
to order the previous question on such a rule 
[a special rule reported from the Committee 
on Rules] opens the resolution to amendment 
and further debate.’’ (Chapter 21, section 
21.2) Section 21.3 continues: ‘‘Upon rejection 
of the motion for the previous question 
on a resolution reported from the Committee 
on Rules, control shifts to the Member 
leading the opposition to the previous 
question, who may offer a proper amendment 
or motion and who controls the time for debate 
thereon.’’ 

Clearly, the vote on the previous question 
on a rule does have substantive policy implications. 
It is one of the only available tools 
for those who oppose the Republican majority’s 
agenda and allows those with alternative 
views the opportunity to offer an alternative 
plan. 

Mr. HARPER. Madam Speaker, I 
yield back the balance of my time, and 
I move the previous question on the 
resolution. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on ordering the previous 
question. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Madam 
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas 
and nays. 

The yeas and nays were ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 of rule XX, further proceedings 
on this question will be postponed. 



H7096 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

RECESS on Energy and Commerce in the One NAYS—177 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair 
declares the House in recess subject to 
the call of the Chair. 

Accordingly (at 3 o’clock and 54 minutes 
p.m.), the House stood in recess. 

f 

b 1710 

AFTER RECESS 

The recess having expired, the House 
was called to order by the Speaker pro 
tempore (Mr. BYRNE) at 5 o’clock and 
10 minutes p.m. 

f 

COMMUNICATION FROM THE 
CLERK OF THE HOUSE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid before 
the House the following communication 
from the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives: 

OFFICE OF THE CLERK, 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, 

Washington, DC, December 1, 2016. 

Hon. PAUL D. RYAN, 

The Speaker, House of Representatives, 
Washington, DC. 

DEAR MR. SPEAKER: Pursuant to the permission 
granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II of 
the Rules of the U.S. House of Representatives, 
the Clerk received the following message 
from the Secretary of the Senate on December 
1, 2016, at 4:18 p.m.: 

That the Senate passed without amendment 
H.R. 6297. 
With best wishes, I am, 
Sincerely, 
KAREN L. HAAS. 

f 

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER 
PRO TEMPORE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 of rule XX and the order 
of the House of today, proceedings will 
resume on questions previously postponed. 


Votes will be taken in the following 
order: 

Ordering the previous question on 
House Resolution 933; 

Adoption of House Resolution 933, if 
ordered; 

Ordering the previous question on 
House Resolution 937; 

Adoption of House Resolution 937, if 
ordered; 

Adoption of the motion to recommit 
on H.R. 6392; and 

Passage of H.R. 6392, if ordered. 

The first electronic vote will be conducted 
as a 15-minute vote. Remaining 
electronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes. 

f 

PROVIDING AMOUNTS FOR FURTHER 
EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE 
ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE 
IN THE ONE HUNDRED 
FOURTEENTH CONGRESS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The unfinished 
business is the vote on ordering 
the previous question on the resolution 
(H. Res. 933) providing amounts 
for further expenses of the Committee 

Hundred Fourteenth Congress, on 
which the yeas and nays were ordered. 

The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on ordering the previous 
question. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 235, nays 
177, not voting 22, as follows: 

[Roll No. 594] 
YEAS—235 
Abraham Griffith Palazzo 
Aderholt Grothman Palmer 
Allen Guinta Paulsen 
Amash Guthrie Pearce 
Amodei Hanna Perry 
Babin Hardy Peterson 
Barletta Harper Pittenger 
Barr Harris Pitts 
Barton Hartzler Poliquin 
Benishek Heck (NV) Pompeo 
Bilirakis Hensarling Posey 
Bishop (MI) Herrera Beutler Price, Tom 
Bishop (UT) Hice, Jody B. Ratcliffe 
Black Hill Reed 
Blackburn Holding Reichert 
Blum Hudson Ribble 
Bost Huelskamp Rice (SC) 
Boustany Huizenga (MI) Rigell 
Brady (TX) 
Brat 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) 
Brooks (IN) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurd (TX) 
Hurt (VA) 
Issa 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rohrabacher 
Buchanan Jenkins (KS) Rokita 
Buck 
Bucshon 
Jenkins (WV) 
Johnson (OH) 
Rooney (FL) 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Burgess Johnson, Sam Roskam 
Byrne Jordan Ross 
Calvert Joyce Rothfus 
Carter (GA) Katko Rouzer 
Carter (TX) 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Clawson (FL) 
Coffman 
Cole 
Collins (GA) 
Collins (NY) 
Comer 
Comstock 
Conaway 
Cook 
Costello (PA) 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Culberson 
Davidson 
Davis, Rodney 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Dold 
Donovan 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Ellmers (NC) 
Emmer (MN) 
Farenthold 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Kelly (MS) 
Kelly (PA) 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Knight 
Labrador 
LaHood 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Latta 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Loudermilk 
Love 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
MacArthur 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
McCarthy 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McHenry 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McSally 
Meadows 
Royce 
Russell 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Scalise 
Schweikert 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Stefanik 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Trott 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walker 
Walorski 
Walters, Mimi 
Fleming 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Meehan 
Messer 
Mica 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Franks (AZ) Miller (FL) Westerman 
Frelinghuysen Miller (MI) Wilson (SC) 
Gibbs Moolenaar Wittman 
Gibson Mooney (WV) Womack 
Gohmert Mullin Woodall 
Goodlatte Mulvaney Yoder 
Gosar Murphy (PA) Yoho 
Gowdy Neugebauer Young (AK) 
Granger Newhouse Young (IA) 
Graves (GA) Noem Young (IN) 
Graves (LA) Nunes Zeldin 
Graves (MO) Olson Zinke 

Adams 
Aguilar 
Ashford 
Bass 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Bera 
Beyer 
Bishop (GA) 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Boyle, Brendan 

F. 
Brady (PA) 
Brownley (CA) 
Bustos 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Ca´rdenas 
Carson (IN) 
Cartwright 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Chu, Judy 
Cicilline 
Clark (MA) 
Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Courtney 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
DeGette 
Delaney 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
DeSaulnier 
Deutch 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Doyle, Michael 

F. 
Duckworth 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Evans 
Farr 
Foster 
Frankel (FL) 

Brown (FL) 
Carney 
Curbelo (FL) 
DeFazio 
Fincher 
Flores 
Forbes 
Garrett 

Fudge 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Garamendi 
Graham 
Grayson 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutie´rrez 
Hanabusa 
Hastings 
Heck (WA) 
Higgins 
Himes 
Hinojosa 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Huffman 
Israel 
Jackson Lee 
Jeffries 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly (IL) 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilmer 
Kind 
Kuster 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lawrence 
Lee 
Levin 
Lewis 
Lieu, Ted 
Loebsack 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 
Lujan Grisham 

(NM) 
Luja´n, Ben Ray 

(NM) 
Lynch 
Maloney, 

Carolyn 
Maloney, Sean 
Matsui 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Meng 
Moore 
Moulton 
Murphy (FL) 
Nadler 

Napolitano 
Nolan 
Norcross 
O’Rourke 
Pallone 
Pascrell 
Pelosi 
Perlmutter 
Peters 
Pingree 
Pocan 
Polis 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rangel 
Rice (NY) 
Richmond 
Roybal-Allard 
Ruiz 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Sa´nchez, Linda 

T. 
Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schrader 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, David 
Serrano 
Sewell (AL) 
Sherman 
Sinema 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Swalwell (CA) 
Takano 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Titus 
Tonko 
Torres 
Tsongas 
Van Hollen 
Vargas 
Veasey 
Vela´zquez 
Visclosky 
Walz 
Wasserman 

Schultz 
Waters, Maxine 
Watson Coleman 
Welch 
Wilson (FL) 
Yarmuth 

NOT VOTING—22 

Hahn Poe (TX) 
Jolly Renacci 
Jones Simpson 

Kirkpatrick Vela 
Lofgren 

Westmoreland 
Neal 

Williams 
Nugent 

Payne 

b 1735 

Mr. ASHFORD changed his vote from 
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’ 

Mr. MULLIN and Ms. GRANGER 
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to 
‘‘yea.’’ 

So the previous question was ordered. 

The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the resolution. 

The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 

RECORDED VOTE 

Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote. 

A recorded vote was ordered. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 
5-minute vote. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7097 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 234, noes 181, 
not voting 19, as follows: 

[Roll No. 595] 

AYES—234 

Abraham Graves (MO) Palazzo 
Aderholt Griffith Palmer 
Allen Grothman Paulsen 
Amash Guinta Pearce 
Amodei Guthrie Perry 
Babin Hardy Peterson 
Barletta 
Barr 
Harper 
Harris 
Pittenger 
Pitts 
Barton 
Benishek 
Bilirakis 
Bishop (MI) 
Bishop (UT) 
Black 
Blackburn 
Blum 
Bost 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Brat 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) 
Brooks (IN) 
Buchanan 
Buck 
Bucshon 
Burgess 
Byrne 
Calvert 
Carter (GA) 
Carter (TX) 
Hartzler 
Heck (NV) 
Hensarling 
Herrera Beutler 
Hice, Jody B. 
Hill 
Holding 
Hudson 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurd (TX) 
Hurt (VA) 
Issa 
Jenkins (KS) 
Jenkins (WV) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Katko 
Kelly (MS) 
Poliquin 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price, Tom 
Ratcliffe 
Reed 
Reichert 
Ribble 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney (FL) 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus 
Rouzer 
Chabot Kelly (PA) Royce 
Chaffetz King (IA) Russell 
Clawson (FL) King (NY) Salmon 
Coffman Kinzinger (IL) Sanford 
Cole Kline Scalise 
Collins (GA) Knight Schweikert 
Collins (NY) Labrador Scott, Austin 
Comer LaHood Sessions 
Comstock LaMalfa Shimkus 
Conaway Lamborn Shuster 
Cook Lance Simpson 
Costello (PA) 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Culberson 
Latta 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Loudermilk 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Stefanik 
Curbelo (FL) Love Stewart 
Davidson 
Davis, Rodney 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Dold 
Donovan 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Ellmers (NC) 
Emmer (MN) 
Farenthold 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
MacArthur 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
McCarthy 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McHenry 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McSally 
Meadows 
Meehan 
Stutzman 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Trott 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walker 
Walorski 
Walters, Mimi 
Weber (TX) 
Fleming 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Messer 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Westerman 
Franks (AZ) Miller (MI) Wilson (SC) 
Frelinghuysen Moolenaar Wittman 
Gibbs Mooney (WV) Womack 
Gibson Mullin Woodall 
Gohmert Mulvaney Yoder 
Goodlatte Murphy (PA) Yoho 
Gosar Neugebauer Young (AK) 
Gowdy Newhouse Young (IA) 
Granger Noem Young (IN) 
Graves (GA) Nunes Zeldin 
Graves (LA) Olson Zinke 
NOES—181 
Adams Boyle, Brendan Castor (FL) 
Aguilar F. Castro (TX) 
Ashford Brady (PA) Chu, Judy 
Bass Brownley (CA) Cicilline 
Beatty Bustos Clark (MA) 
Becerra Butterfield Clarke (NY) 
Bera Capps Clay 
Beyer Capuano Cleaver 
Bishop (GA) Ca´ rdenas Clyburn 
Blumenauer Carson (IN) Cohen 
Bonamici Cartwright Connolly 

Conyers Johnson (GA) Pocan 
Cooper Johnson, E. B. Polis 
Costa Kaptur Price (NC) 
Courtney Keating Quigley 
Crowley Kelly (IL) Rangel 
Cuellar Kennedy Rice (NY) 
Cummings Kildee Richmond 
Davis (CA) Kilmer 

Roybal-Allard 
Davis, Danny Kind 

Ruiz 
DeGette Kuster 

RuppersbergerDelaney Langevin 

Rush 

DeLauro Larsen (WA) 

Ryan (OH)

DelBene Larson (CT) 

Sa´nchez, Linda

DeSaulnier Lawrence 

T. 

Deutch Lee 

Sanchez, Loretta

Dingell Levin 

Sarbanes

Doggett Lewis 

Schakowsky

Doyle, Michael Lieu, Ted 

Schiff

F. Loebsack 
Schrader

Duckworth Lowenthal 

Scott (VA)

Edwards Lowey 

Scott, David

Ellison Lujan Grisham 

Sensenbrenner

Engel (NM) 

Serrano

Eshoo Luja´n, Ben Ray 

Sewell (AL)

Esty (NM) 

Sherman

Evans Lynch 

Sinema

Farr Maloney, 

Sires

Foster Carolyn 
Frankel (FL) Maloney, Sean 

Slaughter 

Smith (WA)

Fudge Matsui 

Speier

Gabbard McCollum 

Swalwell (CA) 
Garamendi McGovern 

Gallego McDermott 

Takano 
Graham McNerney 

Thompson (CA) 
Grayson Meeks 

Thompson (MS) 
Green, Al Meng 

Titus 
Green, Gene Moore 

Tonko 
Grijalva Moulton Torres 
Gutie´rrez Murphy (FL) Tsongas 
Hanabusa Nadler Van Hollen 
Hanna Napolitano Vargas 

Hastings Neal Veasey 

Heck (WA) Nolan Vela´zquez 
Higgins Norcross Visclosky 
Himes O’Rourke Walz 
Hinojosa Pallone Wasserman 

Honda Pascrell Schultz 
Hoyer Payne Waters, Maxine 
Huffman Pelosi Watson Coleman 
Israel Perlmutter Welch 
Jackson Lee Peters Wilson (FL) 
Jeffries Pingree Yarmuth 

NOT VOTING—19 

Brown (FL) Hahn Renacci 
Carney Jolly Stivers 
DeFazio Jones Vela 
Fincher Kirkpatrick Westmoreland 
Flores Lofgren 

Williams 
Forbes Nugent 
Garrett Poe (TX) 

b 1743 
So the resolution was agreed to. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION 
OF CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. 
2943, NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION 
ACT FOR FISCAL 
YEAR 2017 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. ROS-
LEHTINEN). The unfinished business is 
the vote on ordering the previous question 
on the resolution (H. Res. 937) providing 
for consideration of the conference 
report to accompany the bill 

(S. 2943) to authorize appropriations for 
fiscal year 2017 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military 
construction, and for defense activities 
of the Department of Energy, 
to prescribe military personnel 
strengths for such fiscal year, and for 
other purposes, on which the yeas and 
nays were ordered. 
The Clerk read the title of the resolution. 


The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on ordering the previous 
question. 

This will be a 5-minute vote. 

The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 235, nays 
180, not voting 19, as follows: 

[Roll No. 596] 
YEAS—235 
Abraham Graves (MO) Palazzo 
Aderholt Griffith Palmer 
Allen Grothman Paulsen 
Amash Guinta Pearce 
Amodei Guthrie Perry 
Babin Hanna Pittenger 
Barletta Hardy Pitts 
Barr Harper Poliquin 
Barton Harris Pompeo 
Benishek Hartzler Posey 
Bilirakis Heck (NV) Price, Tom 
Bishop (MI) Hensarling Ratcliffe 
Bishop (UT) Herrera Beutler Reed 
Black Hice, Jody B. Reichert 
Blackburn Hill Ribble 
Blum 
Bost 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Brat 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) 
Holding 
Hudson 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurd (TX) 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rohrabacher 
Brooks (IN) Hurt (VA) Rokita 
Buchanan 
Buck 
Bucshon 
Burgess 
Byrne 
Calvert 
Carter (GA) 
Carter (TX) 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Clawson (FL) 
Coffman 
Cole 
Collins (GA) 
Collins (NY) 
Comer 
Comstock 
Conaway 
Cook 
Costello (PA) 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Culberson 
Curbelo (FL) 
Davidson 
Issa 
Jenkins (KS) 
Jenkins (WV) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Katko 
Kelly (MS) 
Kelly (PA) 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Knight 
Labrador 
LaHood 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Latta 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Loudermilk 
Love 
Lucas 
Rooney (FL) 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus 
Rouzer 
Royce 
Russell 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Scalise 
Schweikert 
Scott, Austin 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Stefanik 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Davis, Rodney 
Denham 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
Stutzman 
Thompson (PA) 
Dent MacArthur Thornberry 
DeSantis Marchant Tiberi 
DesJarlais Marino Tipton 
Diaz-Balart Massie Trott 
Dold 
Donovan 
McCarthy 
McCaul 
Turner 
Upton 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Ellmers (NC) 
McClintock 
McHenry 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Valadao 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Emmer (MN) Rodgers Walker 
Farenthold McSally Walorski 
Fitzpatrick Meadows Walters, Mimi 
Fleischmann Meehan Weber (TX) 
Fleming Messer Webster (FL) 
Fortenberry Mica Wenstrup 
Foxx Miller (FL) Westerman 
Franks (AZ) Miller (MI) Wilson (SC) 
Frelinghuysen Moolenaar Wittman 
Gibbs Mooney (WV) Womack 
Gibson Mullin Woodall 
Gohmert Mulvaney Yoder 
Goodlatte Murphy (PA) Yoho 
Gosar Neugebauer Young (AK) 
Gowdy Newhouse Young (IA) 
Granger Noem Young (IN) 
Graves (GA) Nunes Zeldin 
Graves (LA) Olson Zinke 
NAYS—180 

Adams Bera Boyle, Brendan 
Aguilar Beyer F. 
Ashford Bishop (GA) Brady (PA) 
Bass Blumenauer Brownley (CA) 
Beatty Bonamici Bustos 
Becerra Butterfield 


H7098 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

Capps Higgins Payne Bishop (MI) Heck (NV) Peterson Connolly Jeffries Pelosi 
Capuano Himes Pelosi Bishop (UT) Hensarling Pingree Conyers Johnson, E. B. Pocan 
Ca´ rdenas Hinojosa Perlmutter Black Herrera Beutler Pittenger Crowley Kaptur Polis 
Carson (IN) Honda Peters Blackburn Hice, Jody B. Pitts Cummings Keating Richmond 
Cartwright Hoyer Peterson Blum Higgins Poliquin Davis, Danny Kelly (IL) Roybal-Allard 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Huffman 
Israel 
Pingree 
Pocan 
Bost 
Boustany 
Hill 
Holding 
Pompeo 
Posey 
DeGette 
Delaney 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Ruiz 
Rush 
Chu, Judy 
Cicilline 
Clark (MA) 
Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Courtney 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
DeGette 
Delaney 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
Deutch 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Doyle, Michael 
F. 
Duckworth 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Evans 
Farr 
Foster 
Frankel (FL) 
Fudge 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Garamendi 
Graham 
Grayson 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutie´ rrez 
Hanabusa 
Hastings 
Heck (WA) 
Brown (FL) 
Carney 
DeFazio 
DeSaulnier 
Fincher 
Flores 
Forbes 
Jackson Lee Polis 
Jeffries Price (NC)
Johnson (GA) QuigleyJohnson, E. B. RangelKaptur Rice (NY)
Keating Richmond 
Kelly (IL) Roybal-AllardKennedy RuizKildee RuppersbergerKilmer RushKind 
Ryan (OH)
Kuster 
Sa´nchez, LindaLangevin 
T.
Larsen (WA) 
Sanchez, LorettaLarson (CT) 
SarbanesLawrence 
SchakowskyLee 
SchiffLevin 
SchraderLewis 
Scott (VA)Lieu, Ted 
Scott, DavidLipinski 
SerranoLoebsack 
Sewell (AL)Lowenthal 
ShermanLowey 
SinemaLujan Grisham 
Sires(NM) 
Luja´ n, Ben Ray Slaughter 
(NM) Smith (WA) 
Lynch Speier 
Maloney, Swalwell (CA) 
Carolyn Takano 
Maloney, Sean Thompson (CA) 
Matsui Thompson (MS) 
McCollum Titus 
McDermott Tonko 
McGovern Torres 
McNerney Tsongas 
Meeks Van Hollen 
Meng Vargas 
Moore Veasey 
Moulton Vela´ zquez 
Murphy (FL) Visclosky 
Nadler Walz 
Napolitano Wasserman 
Neal Schultz 
Nolan Waters, Maxine 
Norcross Watson Coleman 
O’Rourke Welch 
Pallone Wilson (FL) 
Pascrell Yarmuth 
NOT VOTING—19 
Garrett Poe (TX) 
Hahn Renacci 
Jolly Vela 
Jones Westmoreland 
Kirkpatrick Williams 
Lofgren 
Nugent 
b 1750 
Brady (TX) 
Brat 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) 
Brooks (IN) 
Brownley (CA) 
Buchanan 
Buck 
Bucshon 
Burgess 
Byrne 
Calvert 
Carter (GA) 
Carter (TX) 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Clawson (FL) 
Coffman 
Cole 
Collins (GA) 
Collins (NY) 
Comer 
Comstock 
Conaway 
Cook 
Cooper 
Costa 
Costello (PA) 
Courtney 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Cuellar 
Culberson 
Curbelo (FL) 
Davidson 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Rodney 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Dold 
Donovan 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Ellmers (NC) 
Emmer (MN) 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Evans 
Farenthold 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Garamendi 
Hoyer 
Hudson 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurd (TX) 
Hurt (VA) 
Issa 
Jenkins (KS) 
Jenkins (WV) 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Katko 
Kelly (MS) 
Kelly (PA) 
Kilmer 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Knight 
Labrador 
LaHood 
LaMalfa 
Lamborn 
Lance 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Latta 
Lieu, Ted 
Lipinski 
LoBiondo 
Long 
Loudermilk 
Love 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
MacArthur 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
McCarthy 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McGovern 
McHenry 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McSally 
Meadows 
Meehan 
Messer 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Price (NC) 
Price, Tom 
Quigley 
Rangel 
Ratcliffe 
Reed 
Reichert 
Ribble 
Rice (NY) 
Rice (SC) 
Rigell 
Roby 
Roe (TN) 
Rogers (AL) 
Rogers (KY) 
Rohrabacher 
Rokita 
Rooney (FL) 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Roskam 
Ross 
Rothfus 
Rouzer 
Royce 
Ruppersberger 
Russell 
Salmon 
Sanford 
Scalise 
Schweikert 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, Austin 
Scott, David 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Sinema 
Slaughter 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Smith (WA) 
Stefanik 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Trott 
Tsongas 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Veasey 
Wagner 
Walberg 
DeLauro Kind Ryan (OH) 
DelBene Kuster Sa´nchez, Linda 
DeSaulnier Lawrence T. 
Deutch Lee Sanchez, Loretta 
Dingell Levin Sarbanes 
Doggett Lewis SchakowskyDoyle, Michael Loebsack Schiff 
F. Lowenthal Schrader 
Duckworth Lowey SerranoEdwards Lujan Grisham Sewell (AL)
Ellison (NM) ShermanEngel Luja´ n, Ben Ray SiresFarr (NM) 
SpeierFoster Lynch 
Swalwell (CA)Frankel (FL) Maloney, 
TakanoFudge Carolyn 
Thompson (CA)Gabbard Maloney, Sean 
Thompson (MS)Gallego Matsui 
TitusGraham McCollum 
Grayson McDermott Tonko 
Green, Al McNerney Torres 
Green, Gene Meeks Van Hollen 
Grijalva Meng Vargas 
Gutie´ rrez Moore Vela´ zquez 
Hanabusa Murphy (FL) Visclosky 
Hastings Nadler Walz 
Heck (WA) Napolitano Wasserman 
Himes Neal Schultz 
Hinojosa Nolan Waters, Maxine 
Honda O’Rourke Watson Coleman 
Huffman Pallone Welch 
Israel Pascrell Wilson (FL) 
Jackson Lee Payne Yarmuth 
NOT VOTING—18 
Brown (FL) Garrett Nugent 
Carney Hahn Poe (TX) 
DeFazio Jolly Renacci 
Fincher Jones Vela 
Flores Kirkpatrick Westmoreland 
Forbes Lofgren Williams 
b 1757 
So the resolution was agreed to. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 
f 
SYSTEMIC RISK DESIGNATION 
IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2016 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant 
to clause 8 of rule XX and the order 
of the House of today, the unfinished 
business is the question on the motion 
to recommit on the bill (H.R. 6392) to 
So the previous question was ordered. 
The result of the vote was announced 
as above recorded. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the resolution. 
The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 
RECORDED VOTE 
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Speaker, I demand 
a recorded vote. 
A recorded vote was ordered. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 
5-minute vote. 
The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—ayes 277, noes 139, 
not voting 18, as follows: 
[Roll No. 597] 
AYES—277 
Abraham Amodei Barton 
Aderholt Ashford Benishek 
Aguilar Babin Beyer 
Allen Barletta Bilirakis 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (LA) 
Graves (MO) 
Griffith 
Grothman 
Guinta 
Guthrie 
Hanna 
Hardy 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Adams 
Bass 
Beatty 
Becerra 
Bera 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Boyle, Brendan 
Moolenaar 
Mooney (WV) 
Moulton 
Mullin 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (PA) 
Neugebauer 
Newhouse 
Noem 
Norcross 
Nunes 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Palmer 
Paulsen 
Pearce 
Perlmutter 
Perry 
Peters 
NOES—139 
Brady (PA) 
Bustos 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Ca´ rdenas 
Carson (IN) 
Cartwright 
Walden 
Walker 
Walorski 
Walters, Mimi 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Wenstrup 
Westerman 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Womack 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Yoho 
Young (AK) 
Young (IA) 
Young (IN) 
Zeldin 
Zinke 
Castro (TX) 
Chu, Judy 
Cicilline 
Clark (MA) 
Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
amend the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act to 
specify when bank holding companies 
may be subject to certain enhanced supervision, 
and for other purposes, offered 
by the gentlewoman from California 
(Ms. MAXINE WATERS), on which 
the yeas and nays were ordered. 
The Clerk will redesignate the motion. 
The Clerk redesignated the motion. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the motion to recommit. 
This is a 5-minute vote. 
The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 178, nays 
236, not voting 20, as follows: 
[Roll No. 598] 
YEAS—178 
Adams Bera Boyle, Brendan 
Aguilar Beyer F. 
Bass Bishop (GA) Brady (PA) 
Beatty Blumenauer Brownley (CA) 
Becerra Bonamici Bustos 
Amash Barr Bishop (GA) F. Castor (FL) Cohen 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7099 

Butterfield Hastings Pallone Lamborn Paulsen Sinema DesJarlais Kline Rigell 
Capps Heck (WA) Pascrell Lance Pearce Smith (MO) Diaz-Balart Knight Roby 
Capuano Higgins Payne Latta Perry Smith (NE) Dold Labrador Roe (TN) 
Ca´ rdenas Himes Pelosi LoBiondo Pittenger Smith (NJ) Donovan LaHood Rogers (AL) 
Carson (IN) Hinojosa Perlmutter Long Pitts Smith (TX) Duffy LaMalfa Rogers (KY) 
Cartwright Honda Peters Loudermilk Poliquin Stefanik Duncan (SC) Lamborn Rohrabacher 
Castor (FL) Hoyer Peterson Love Pompeo Stewart Duncan (TN) Lance Rokita 
Castro (TX) 
Chu, Judy 
Huffman 
Israel 
Pingree 
Pocan 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Posey 
Price, Tom 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Ellmers (NC) 
Emmer (MN) 
Latta 
Lipinski 
Rooney (FL) 
Ros-Lehtinen 
Cicilline Jackson Lee Polis Lummis Ratcliffe Thompson (PA) Farenthold LoBiondo Roskam 
Clark (MA) 
Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Cooper 
Costa 
Courtney 
Crowley 
Cuellar 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
DeGette 
Delaney 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
DeSaulnier 
Deutch 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Doyle, Michael 
F. 
Duckworth 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Evans 
Farr 
Foster 
Frankel (FL) 
Fudge 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Jeffries 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly (IL) 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilmer 
Kind 
Kuster 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lawrence 
Lee 
Levin 
Lewis 
Lieu, Ted 
Lipinski 
Loebsack 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 
Lujan Grisham 
(NM) 
Luja´ n, Ben Ray 
(NM) 
Lynch 
Maloney, 
Carolyn 
Maloney, Sean 
Matsui 
McCollum 
McDermott 
McGovern 
McNerney 
Meeks 
Meng 
Moore 
Price (NC) 
Quigley 
Rangel 
Rice (NY) 
Richmond 
Roybal-Allard 
Ruiz 
Ruppersberger 
Rush 
Ryan (OH) 
Sa´nchez, Linda 
T. 
Sanchez, Loretta 
Sarbanes 
Schakowsky 
Schiff 
Schrader 
Scott (VA) 
Scott, David 
Serrano 
Sewell (AL) 
Sherman 
Sires 
Slaughter 
Smith (WA) 
Speier 
Swalwell (CA) 
Takano 
Thompson (CA) 
Thompson (MS) 
Titus 
Tonko 
Torres 
Tsongas 
Van Hollen 
Vargas 
Veasey 
Vela´ zquez 
MacArthur 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
McCarthy 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McSally 
Meadows 
Meehan 
Messer 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Moolenaar 
Mooney (WV) 
Mullin 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (PA) 
Neugebauer 
Newhouse 
Noem 
Nunes 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Palmer 
Barletta 
Brown (FL) 
Carney 
DeFazio 
Fincher 
Flores 
Forbes 
Reed Thornberry 
Reichert Tiberi 
Ribble Tipton 
Rice (SC) Trott 
Rigell Turner 
Roby Upton 
Roe (TN) Valadao 
Rogers (AL) Wagner 
Rogers (KY) Walberg 
Rohrabacher Walden 
Rokita Walker 
Rooney (FL) Walorski 
Ros-Lehtinen Walters, Mimi 
Roskam Weber (TX) 
Ross Webster (FL) 
Rothfus Wenstrup 
Rouzer Westerman 
Royce Wilson (FL) 
Russell Wilson (SC) 
Salmon Wittman 
Sanford Womack 
Scalise Woodall 
Schweikert Yoder 
Scott, Austin Yoho 
Sensenbrenner Young (AK) 
Sessions Young (IA) 
Shimkus Young (IN) 
Shuster Zeldin 
Simpson Zinke 
NOT VOTING—20 
Garrett Nugent 
Hahn Poe (TX) 
Jolly Renacci 
Jones Vela 
Kirkpatrick Westmoreland 
Lofgren Williams 
McHenry 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (LA) 
Graves (MO) 
Green, Gene 
Griffith 
Grothman 
Guinta 
Guthrie 
Hanna 
Hardy 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Heck (NV) 
Hensarling 
Herrera Beutler 
Hice, Jody B. 
Higgins 
Hill 
Holding 
Hudson 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Long 
Loudermilk 
Love 
Lucas 
Luetkemeyer 
Lummis 
MacArthur 
Marchant 
Marino 
Massie 
McCarthy 
McCaul 
McClintock 
McHenry 
McKinley 
McMorris 
Rodgers 
McSally 
Meadows 
Meehan 
Meeks 
Messer 
Mica 
Miller (FL) 
Miller (MI) 
Moolenaar 
Mooney (WV) 
Mullin 
Mulvaney 
Murphy (FL) 
Murphy (PA) 
Neugebauer 
Newhouse 
Noem 
Nunes 
Olson 
Palazzo 
Palmer 
Paulsen 
Ross 
Rothfus 
Rouzer 
Royce 
Russell 
Sanford 
Scalise 
Schweikert 
Scott, Austin 
Scott, David 
Sensenbrenner 
Sessions 
Sewell (AL) 
Shimkus 
Shuster 
Simpson 
Sinema 
Sires 
Smith (MO) 
Smith (NE) 
Smith (NJ) 
Smith (TX) 
Stefanik 
Stewart 
Stivers 
Stutzman 
Thompson (PA) 
Thornberry 
Tiberi 
Tipton 
Trott 
Turner 
Upton 
Valadao 
Wagner 
Walberg 
Walden 
Walker 
Walorski 
Garamendi Moulton Visclosky b 1805 Hurd (TX) Payne Walters, Mimi 
Graham 
Grayson 
Murphy (FL) 
Nadler 
Walz 
Wasserman Ms. WILSON of Florida changed her 
Hurt (VA) 
Issa 
Pearce 
Perry 
Weber (TX) 
Webster (FL) 
Green, Al 
Green, Gene 
Grijalva 
Gutie´ rrez 
Napolitano 
Neal 
Nolan 
Norcross 
Schultz 
Waters, Maxine 
Watson Coleman 
Welch 
vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’ 
So the motion to recommit was rejected. 
Jackson Lee 
Jenkins (KS) 
Jenkins (WV) 
Johnson (OH) 
Peters 
Peterson 
Pittenger 
Pitts 
Wenstrup 
Westerman 
Wilson (SC) 
Wittman 
Hanabusa O’Rourke Yarmuth The result of the vote was announced Johnson, Sam Poliquin Womack 
Abraham 
Aderholt 
Allen 
Amash 
Amodei 
Ashford 
Babin 
Barr 
Barton 
Benishek 
Bilirakis 
Bishop (MI) 
Bishop (UT) 
Black 
Blackburn 
Blum 
Bost 
Boustany 
Brady (TX) 
Brat 
Bridenstine 
Brooks (AL) 
Brooks (IN) 
Buchanan 
Buck 
Bucshon 
Burgess 
Byrne 
Calvert 
Carter (GA) 
Carter (TX) 
Chabot 
Chaffetz 
Clawson (FL) 
Coffman 
Cole 
Collins (GA) 
Collins (NY) 
Comer 
Comstock 
NAYS—236 
Conaway 
Cook 
Costello (PA) 
Cramer 
Crawford 
Crenshaw 
Culberson 
Curbelo (FL) 
Davidson 
Davis, Rodney 
Denham 
Dent 
DeSantis 
DesJarlais 
Diaz-Balart 
Dold 
Donovan 
Duffy 
Duncan (SC) 
Duncan (TN) 
Ellmers (NC) 
Emmer (MN) 
Farenthold 
Fitzpatrick 
Fleischmann 
Fleming 
Fortenberry 
Foxx 
Franks (AZ) 
Frelinghuysen 
Gibbs 
Gibson 
Gohmert 
Goodlatte 
Gosar 
Gowdy 
Granger 
Graves (GA) 
Graves (LA) 
Graves (MO) 
Griffith 
Grothman 
Guinta 
Guthrie 
Hanna 
Hardy 
Harper 
Harris 
Hartzler 
Heck (NV) 
Hensarling 
Herrera Beutler 
Hice, Jody B. 
Hill 
Holding 
Hudson 
Huelskamp 
Huizenga (MI) 
Hultgren 
Hunter 
Hurd (TX) 
Hurt (VA) 
Issa 
Jenkins (KS) 
Jenkins (WV) 
Johnson (OH) 
Johnson, Sam 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Katko 
Kelly (MS) 
Kelly (PA) 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Kline 
Knight 
Labrador 
LaHood 
LaMalfa 
as above recorded. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The 
question is on the passage of the bill. 
The question was taken; and the 
Speaker pro tempore announced that 
the ayes appeared to have it. 
Ms. MAXINE WATERS of California. 
Madam Speaker, on that I demand the 
yeas and nays. 
The yeas and nays were ordered. 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This 
will be a 5-minute vote. 
The vote was taken by electronic device, 
and there were—yeas 254, nays 
161, not voting 19, as follows: 
[Roll No. 599] 
YEAS—254 
Abraham Boustany Collins (NY) 
Aderholt Brady (TX) Comer 
Allen Brat Comstock 
Amash Bridenstine Conaway 
Amodei Brooks (AL) Cook 
Ashford Brooks (IN) Cooper 
Babin Buchanan Costa 
Barletta Buck Costello (PA) 
Barr Bucshon Cramer 
Barton Burgess Crawford 
Beatty Byrne Crenshaw 
Benishek Calvert Cuellar 
Bilirakis Carter (GA) Culberson 
Bishop (GA) Carter (TX) Curbelo (FL) 
Bishop (MI) Chabot Davidson 
Bishop (UT) Chaffetz Davis, Rodney 
Black Clawson (FL) Delaney 
Blackburn Coffman Denham 
Blum Cole Dent 
Bost Collins (GA) DeSantis 
Jordan 
Joyce 
Katko 
Kelly (MS) 
Kelly (PA) 
King (IA) 
King (NY) 
Kinzinger (IL) 
Adams 
Aguilar 
Bass 
Becerra 
Bera 
Beyer 
Blumenauer 
Bonamici 
Boyle, Brendan 
F. 
Brady (PA) 
Brownley (CA) 
Bustos 
Butterfield 
Capps 
Capuano 
Ca´ rdenas 
Carson (IN) 
Cartwright 
Castor (FL) 
Castro (TX) 
Chu, Judy 
Cicilline 
Clark (MA) 
Clarke (NY) 
Clay 
Cleaver 
Clyburn 
Cohen 
Connolly 
Conyers 
Courtney 
Pompeo 
Posey 
Price, Tom 
Ratcliffe 
Reed 
Reichert 
Ribble 
Rice (SC) 
NAYS—161 
Crowley 
Cummings 
Davis (CA) 
Davis, Danny 
DeGette 
DeLauro 
DelBene 
DeSaulnier 
Deutch 
Dingell 
Doggett 
Doyle, Michael 
F. 
Duckworth 
Edwards 
Ellison 
Engel 
Eshoo 
Esty 
Evans 
Farr 
Foster 
Frankel (FL) 
Fudge 
Gabbard 
Gallego 
Garamendi 
Graham 
Grayson 
Green, Al 
Grijalva 
Gutie´ rrez 
Woodall 
Yoder 
Yoho 
Young (AK) 
Young (IA) 
Young (IN) 
Zeldin 
Zinke 
Hanabusa 
Hastings 
Heck (WA) 
Himes 
Hinojosa 
Honda 
Hoyer 
Huffman 
Israel 
Jeffries 
Johnson (GA) 
Johnson, E. B. 
Kaptur 
Keating 
Kelly (IL) 
Kennedy 
Kildee 
Kilmer 
Kind 
Kuster 
Langevin 
Larsen (WA) 
Larson (CT) 
Lawrence 
Lee 
Levin 
Lewis 
Lieu, Ted 
Loebsack 
Lowenthal 
Lowey 


(Rectangle comment March 17, 2017 Congressional Record
3/21/2017 1:04:40 AM
December 1, 2016, on page H7100, the following appeared: amendments, as follows: (1)Strike all after the resolving clause and
The online version has been corrected to read: amendments, as follows: Senate amendments: (1)Strike all after the resolving clause and)
(Text Box comment CORRECTION)
H7100 

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

Lujan Grisham Perlmutter Smith (WA) 
(NM) Pingree Speier 
Luja´n, Ben Ray Pocan Swalwell (CA) 
(NM) Polis Takano 
Lynch Price (NC) 

Thompson (CA)
Maloney, Quigley 

Thompson (MS)

Carolyn Rangel 

Titus 

Maloney, Sean Rice (NY) 

Tonko

Matsui Richmond 

Torres

McCollum Roybal-Allard 

Tsongas

McDermott Ruiz 

Van Hollen

McGovern Ruppersberger 

Vargas

McNerney Rush 

Veasey

Meng Ryan (OH) 
Moore Sa´nchez, Linda 

Vela´zquez 
Moulton T. Visclosky 
Nadler Sanchez, Loretta Walz 
Napolitano Sarbanes Wasserman 
Neal Schakowsky Schultz 
Nolan Schiff Waters, Maxine 
Norcross Schrader Watson Coleman 
O’Rourke Scott (VA) Welch 
Pallone Serrano Wilson (FL) 
Pascrell Sherman 

Yarmuth 
Pelosi Slaughter 

NOT VOTING—19 

Brown (FL) Hahn Renacci 
Carney Jolly Salmon 
DeFazio Jones Vela 
Fincher Kirkpatrick Westmoreland 
Flores Lofgren 

Williams 
Forbes Nugent 
Garrett Poe (TX) 

b 1815 

Ms. GRAHAM changed her vote from 

‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’ 
So the bill was passed. 
The result of the vote was announced 

as above recorded. 
A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT OF 
TRIBES TO STOP THE EXPORT 
OF CULTURAL AND TRADITIONAL 
PATRIMONY RESOLUTION 


Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent to take from the 
Speaker’s table the concurrent resolution 
(H. Con. Res. 122) supporting efforts 
to stop the theft, illegal possession 
or sale, transfer, and export of 
tribal cultural items of American Indians, 
Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians 
in the United States and internationally, 
with the Senate amendments 
thereto, and concur in the Senate 
amendments. 

The Clerk read the title of the concurrent 
resolution. 
The Clerk read the Senate amendments, 
as follows: 
Senate amendments: 
O1æStrike all after the resolving clause and 
insert the following: 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This concurrent resolution may be cited as the 
‘‘Protection of the Right of Tribes to stop the 
Export of Cultural and Traditional Patrimony 
Resolution’’ or the ‘‘PROTECT Patrimony Resolution’’. 


SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS. 

In this resolution: 

(1) NATIVE AMERICAN.—The term ‘‘Native 
American’’ means— 
(A) with respect to an individual, an individual 
who is a member of an Indian tribe (as 
defined in section 2 of the Native American 
Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (25 
U.S.C. 3001)); and 
(B) with respect to the cultural nature or significance 
of an item, right, or other object or 
concept, being of or significant to— 
(i) an Indian tribe (as defined in section 2 of 
the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation 
Act (25 U.S.C. 3001)); or 
(ii) a Native Hawaiian organization (as defined 
in that section (25 U.S.C. 3001)). 
(2) TRIBAL CULTURAL ITEM.—The term ‘‘tribal 
cultural item’’ has the meaning given the term 
‘‘cultural item’’ in section 2 of the Native American 
Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (25 
U.S.C. 3001). 
SEC. 3. FINDINGS. 

Congress finds the following: 

(1) Tribal cultural items— 
(A) have ongoing historical, traditional, or 
cultural importance central to a Native American 
group or culture; 
(B) cannot be alienated, appropriated, or conveyed 
by any individual; and 
(C) are vital to Native American cultural survival 
and the maintenance of Native American 
ways of life. 
(2) The nature and description of tribal cultural 
items are sensitive and to be treated with 
respect and confidentiality, as appropriate. 
(3) Violators often export tribal cultural items 
internationally with the intent of evading Federal 
and tribal laws. 
(4) Tribal cultural items continue to be removed 
from the possession of Native Americans 
and sold in black or public markets in violation 
of Federal and tribal laws, including laws designed 
to protect Native American cultural property 
rights. 
(5) The illegal trade of tribal cultural items involves 
a sophisticated and lucrative black market, 
where the items are traded through domestic 
markets and then are often exported internationally. 
(6) Auction houses in foreign countries have 
held sales of tribal cultural items from the Pueblo 
of Acoma, the Pueblo of Laguna, the Pueblo 
of San Felipe, the Hopi Tribe, and other Indian 
tribes. 
(7) After tribal cultural items are exported 
internationally, Native Americans have difficulty 
stopping the sale of the items and securing 
their repatriation to their home communities, 
where the items belong. 
(8) Federal agencies have a responsibility to 
consult with Native Americans to stop the theft, 
illegal possession or sale, transfer, and export of 
tribal cultural items. 
(9) An increase in the investigation and successful 
prosecution of violations of the Native 
American Graves Protection and Repatriation 
Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) and the Archaeological 
Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 
U.S.C. 470aa et seq.) is necessary to deter illegal 
trading in tribal cultural items. 
(10) Many Indian tribes and tribal organizations 
have passed resolutions condemning the 
theft and sale of tribal cultural items, including 
the following: 
(A) The National Congress of American Indians 
passed Resolutions SAC–12–008 and SD–15– 
075 to call on the United States, in consultation 
with Native Americans— 
(i) to address international repatriation; and 
(ii) to take affirmative actions to stop the 
theft and illegal sale of tribal cultural items 
both domestically and internationally. 
(B) The All Pueblo Council of Governors, representative 
of 20 Pueblo Indian tribes— 
(i) noted that the Pueblo Indian tribes of the 
Southwestern United States have been disproportionately 
affected by the sale of tribal 
cultural items both domestically and internationally 
in violation of Federal and tribal 
laws; and 
(ii) passed Resolutions 2015–12 and 2015–13 to 
call on the United States, in consultation with 
Native Americans— 
(I) to address international repatriation; and 
(II) to take affirmative actions to stop the 
theft and illegal sale of tribal cultural items 
both domestically and internationally. 
(C) The United South and Eastern Tribes, an 
intertribal organization comprised of 26 federally 
recognized Indian tribes, passed Resolution 
2015:007, which calls on the United States to address 
all means to support the repatriation of 
tribal cultural items from beyond United States 
borders. 

(D) The Inter-Tribal Council of the Five Civilized 
Tribes, uniting the Chickasaw, Choctaw, 
Cherokee, Muscogee (Creek), and Seminole Nations, 
passed Resolution 12–07, which requests 
that the United States, after consultation with 
Native Americans, assist in international repatriation 
and take immediate action to address 
repatriation. 
SEC. 4. DECLARATION OF CONGRESS. 

Congress— 

(1) condemns the theft, illegal possession or 
sale, transfer, and export of tribal cultural 
items; 
(2) calls on the Secretary of the Interior, the 
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Attorney 
General to consult with Native Americans, 
including traditional Native American religious 
leaders, in addressing the practices described 
in paragraph (1)— 
(A) to take affirmative action to stop the practices; 
and 
(B) to secure repatriation of tribal cultural 
items to Native Americans; 
(3) supports the efforts of the Comptroller 
General of the United States— 
(A) to determine the scope of illegal trafficking 
in tribal cultural items domestically and 
internationally; and 
(B) to discuss with Native Americans, including 
traditional Native American religious leaders, 
relevant Federal officials, and other individuals 
and entities, as appropriate, the steps 
required— 
(i) to end illegal trafficking in, and the export 
of, tribal cultural items; and 
(ii) to secure repatriation of tribal cultural 
items to the appropriate Native Americans; 
(4) supports the development of explicit restrictions 
on the export of tribal cultural items; 
and 
(5) encourages State and local governments 
and interested groups and organizations to work 
cooperatively in— 
(A) deterring the theft, illegal possession or 
sale, transfer, and export of tribal cultural 
items; and 
(B) securing the repatriation of tribal cultural 
items to the appropriate Native Americans. 
O2æStrike the preamble. 

Mr. GOODLATTE (during the reading). 
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous 
consent to dispense with the reading of 
the Senate amendments. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
GROTHMAN). Is there objection to the 
request of the gentleman from Virginia? 


There was no objection. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the original request of the 
gentleman from Virginia? 

There was no objection. 

A motion to reconsider was laid on 
the table. 

f 

SMALL BUSINESS SATURDAY 
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania 
asked and was given permission to address 
the House for 1 minute and to revise 
and extend his remarks.) 
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Speaker, I rise in recognition of 
Small Business Saturday this past 
weekend, a day to support small businesses 
and celebrate the role that they 
play in our communities. This year, 
Small Business Saturday saw a record 
112 million shoppers, a number which 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7101 

highlights the effectiveness of this 
movement across the United States. 

Small businesses have proven time 
and time again that they are the backbone 
of a strong economy. In Pennsylvania’s 
Fifth Congressional District, 
which I am proud to represent, small 
businesses provide valuable services, 
ranging from construction and manufacturing 
to health care and social assistance, 
bettering the lives of residents 
and consumers. 

Academic institutions also play an 
important role in growing small businesses. 
For example, Penn State University 
introduced a business 
preaccelerator this year, known as the 
Happy Valley Launchbox. This unique 
venture is a signature program of the 
Invent Penn State initiative, and I am 
confident it will serve as a platform for 
entrepreneurship and innovation. 

I look forward to the continued success 
of small businesses both in Pennsylvania 
and across the United States, 
and I remain grateful for their contribution 
to our Nation’s economy. 

f 

IMPROVING THE HEALTH OF 
AMERICANS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
6, 2015, the gentleman from Oklahoma 
(Mr. MULLIN) is recognized for 60 
minutes as the designee of the majority 
leader. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. MULLIN. Mr. Speaker, I ask that 
all Members may have 5 legislative 
days to revise and extend their remarks 
and include any extraneous materials 
in the RECORD. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Oklahoma? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. MULLIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in 
support of the 21st Century Cures Act 
that passed yesterday. It is not too 
often that we get to be proactive in 
such important legislative business in 
this House. However, yesterday we saw 
a great victory for the families that so 
many of us have heard from. We have 
heard from mothers and fathers, brothers 
and sisters, and aunts and uncles 
about loved ones who are dealing with 
mental illness or dealing with drug addiction 
or dealing with a disease that 
we haven’t been able to accurately address 
because we have had roadblocks 
because of legislation and rules that 
have been put in place by the FDA. But 
yesterday we got to pass a piece of legislation 
by overwhelming bipartisan 
support to say: Yes, we are listening; 
yes, we hear you; and yes, we are going 
to make changes. 

I am going to let my other colleagues 
speak. At this time I yield to the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania (Mr. MURPHY), 
my chairman. 

Mr. MURPHY of Pennsylvania. Mr. 
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for 
yielding and heading up this very important 
Special Order on a topic that 
affects every single family in America, 
and that is their health. 

As the gentleman said, yesterday we 
passed a very important bill, the 21st 
Century Cures Act, with the charge led 
by the chairman of the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce, FRED UPTON. I 
was pleased that they included in that 
package our mental health reform bill, 
which we moved out of the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce unanimously 
in July. 

We have spoken about this issue at 
great length for the last few years because 
it is worthy of that time. We 
have spoken because of the 60 million 
Americans who suffer from some level 
of mental illness and the 10 million 
Americans who suffer from severe mental 
illness and the fact that 40 percent 
of them cannot get care; that half the 
counties in America have no psychiatrists, 
psychologists or social workers; 
that we do not have enough hospital 
beds for people in crisis, a shortage of 
100,000; that there are only 9,000 child 
and adolescent psychiatrists when we 
need 30,000, particularly important because 
severe mental illness in half the 
cases emerges by age 14 and 75 percent 
by age 24; that we have seen too many 
lives lost, that the body count in this 
Nation last year related primarily and 
secondarily to mental illness exceeds 
the total combat body counts of United 
States soldiers in World War I, Korea, 
Vietnam, Desert Storm, Bosnia, Afghanistan, 
and Iraq combined; because 
millions of families continue to suffer, 
because our prisons are filled with the 
mentally ill, our emergency rooms are 
backed up with people with mental illness-
related disorders, and because our 
morgues are also filled. 

Yesterday, the House took a definitive 
bipartisan approach in changing 
that trajectory. The issues we have 
covered on mental health, along with 
the advances in the 21st Century Cures 
bill, sets a new direction for where we 
need to be going in this Nation to approaching 
health care overall. When we 
look at the research changes that we 
have made in advancing cures not only 
in small population orphan diseases, 
but also with regard to the total 10,000 
diseases out there, we will be able to 
sufficiently and more effectively identify 
medical disorders and psychiatric 
disorders early on and get them treatment 
sooner. 

One of the aspects that was taken 
care of in the Helping Families With 
Mental Health Crisis Act is a program 
called RAISE, Response After Initial 
Schizophrenic Episode. As we know, research 
tells us that when you provide 
medication and effective targeted 
counseling early on, you can reduce the 
trajectory of severe mental illness and 
improve the prognosis greatly. But 
when that is not provided, every crisis 
moment of severe mental illness leads 
to other neurological damage, worsens 
the prognosis and, sadly, increases the 
chances that a person will have time in 
prison 10 times more likely than to be 
in a hospital when they are in crisis. 

We are changing that trajectory. New 
research will get us in that direction. 

Let me lay out for a few minutes today 
where this takes us as Congress is 
looking to change the Affordable Care 
Act. People have spoken ad nauseam 
about the problems with that act, how 
it has cost families a great deal, how it 
is supposed to be affordable but it is 
not, how premiums have gone up dramatically 
in double digits and triple 
digits over the last few years, how the 
deductibles and copays put it out of 
families’ reach, and how it is not really 
a comprehensive approach because it 
does not stem the tide of increasing 
healthcare costs. 

There are some specific reasons for 
that. As long as we have a system that 
is based on a fee-for-service model and 
as long as we have a system that does 
not put the patient at the center of 
this focus, we are going to continue to 
have problems with cost overruns and, 
quite frankly, care problems. 

We have seen changes in the trajectory 
of improvements in reduction in 
mortality and morbidity. For example, 
over the last couple decades, we have 
seen a reduction in mortality rates for 
cancer, for heart disease, for stroke, for 
accidental deaths, for HIV/AIDS; but 
we have seen increases in mortality 
rates for suicide and also for drug overdose 
deaths. 

This really means we need to be looking 
at a different kind of model, and 
that model is the integrated care 
model, the model where behavioral 
medicine and physical medicine work 
together. 

Why is that important? 

We know that 75 percent of the people 
with a severe mental illness will 
have some other chronic illness like 
heart disease, lung disease, diabetes, 
infectious disease; and 50 percent of 
them have at least two chronic diseases; 
a third will have at least three. 
We know that a person with severe 
mental illness has triple the chance of 
moving into poverty, and we know that 
people in poverty have three times the 
rate of mental illness. 

Beyond that, if we look at people who 
enter into using the medical field from 
the area of chronic illness, that perhaps 
the first diagnosis might be anything 
from cancer, inflammatory bowel 
disease, diabetes, et cetera, the chances 
of them developing a psychological 
problem such as depression, panic disorder, 
anxiety, is massive, twice the 
rate of the rest of the population. 

This is where the costs begin to soar, 
because when a person recognizes they 
have this long-term problem with pain, 
with doctors’ appointments, with disruption 
of their lifestyle, with immobility, 
with disability, et cetera, it is 
expected and it is common for them to 
develop other psychiatric disorders. 
But we have had a system that has ignored 
that. 

What happens when we ignore that? 

If a person has a chronic illness and 
depression, for example, untreated depression, 
it doubles. It doubles their 
healthcare costs. When there are models 
out there, however, that say let’s 


H7102 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

integrate behavioral medicine and 
physical medicine so that a physician, 
being a coordinated care model, when 
they have a patient with one of those 
illnesses, a chronic illness, they begin 
to treat the whole patient, the patient-
centered model, the team approach between 
the doctor and patient there. 

b 1830 
What can it do? Well, I want to cite 
a study done by a young doctor by the 
name of Jeffrey Brenner, who was out 
in New Jersey. 
You recognize that people with complex 
health and social issues have these 
high rates of going to emergency 
rooms. They are called super-utilizers. 
Medicaid points out that 5 percent of 
the people on Medicaid account for 50 
percent of Medicaid spending and, I 
might add, virtually all of those are 
people who have a concurrent psychiatric 
disorder, such as depression. 
But what Brenner did in his particular 
study is recognize that there 
were a number of people who had a 
huge number of visits to emergency 
rooms in a very costly way. He said, for 
example, nearly half of the city of 
Camden’s 77,000 residents were visiting 
an emergency department annually, 
most often for head colds, viral infections, 
ear infections, and sore throats. 
Thirteen percent of the patients accounted 
for 80 percent of hospital costs, 
and 20 percent of the patients accounted 
for 90 percent of the costs. 
What he looked at were models that 
police use called hot spotting—where 
are the areas of a city where you have 
a great deal of crime, and, instead of 
avoiding those areas, the police would 
go in and work to prevent crime. Well, 
similarly, in Brenner’s model, he 
looked at managing these patients’ 
care instead of ignoring them. If you 
ignore them, they go to emergency 
rooms repeatedly. 
Studies done, for example, at the 
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center 
with inflammatory bowel disease 
found when you ignore folks, they continue 
to go to emergency rooms. Over-
utilizers of the system. And on a fee-
for-service model, it is worth it for the 
doctor. They made a lot of money. Hospitals 
made money, as long as the people 
continued to come back. 
But what was it that was driving people 
repeatedly to get this care at an 
emergency room, or expensive care, instead 
of doing something else? What 
Brenner did and other studies have 
found is that people could not access 
their primary care physician or their 
specialist, so that is where they would 
go for care. They would panic. Worry, 
anxiety, depression. They weren’t managing 
their medication well. There are 
neurobiological things that take place 
in the system of someone with depression 
which makes them more prone toward 
other infections and viruses, et 
cetera. 
What Brenner did was identified folks 
with a fairly complicated model here 
and developed a care management 

team where the goal is leaving patients 
with the ability to manage health care 
on their own. And how do they do that? 
By helping them see doctors more frequently. 


The studies done with the inflammatory 
bowel disease clinic at the University 
of Pittsburgh did the same 
thing. They developed an integrative 
care team, including psychiatric and 
psychological consulting, to help the 
person deal with their pain, help them 
change their behavior patterns, and 
make sure they had easy access to the 
doctors, so even getting the doctor’s 
cell phone number, email address, and 
respond within 72 hours for doctor visits. 


What Brenner found, the first 36 patients 
had a total of 62 hospital emergency 
room visits per month before 
they began intervention. It dropped to 
37 visits per month afterwards. Then 
they also found the hospital bill fell 
from a monthly average of $1.2 million 
to just over $500,000, savings that benefited 
State and Federal healthcare 
plans. Similar results have been found 
in other areas when this is targeted. 

Now, we know the Affordable Care 
Act had some models of this, but the 
results have been somewhat equivocal 
because they haven’t looked at these as 
closely and really worked with the patients 
as closely. But the point is this: 
Recognizing if we are going to get hold 
of the cost overruns with health care, 
it needs to be that integrated care 
model—behavioral and physical medicine 
working together—a coordinated 
care model, where a primary care physician 
and/or the specialists are working 
to coordinate the patient’s care instead 
of leaving them on their own, 
and, quite frankly, a capitated care 
model, where it is worth it financially 
for the physician and patient to work 
together, not to just say: Go to the 
hospital whenever you want; go to the 
emergency room whenever you want; 
but get the care you need, the time you 
need it, with the quality you need. 

The Affordable Care Act started 
down this road, but it wasn’t fully followed. 
But this bill we passed yesterday, 
and our hope is that the Senate 
passes next week, by moving forward 
on research; by making sure physicians 
get timely, quality information for 
what they should do; by making sure 
that it is disseminated to physicians, 
whether they are in urban downtown 
Manhattan or they are out in rural 
South Dakota, that through telemedicine 
they have access to the best decisionmaking; 
and by making sure that, 
through telehealth, which we funded in 
the Helping Families with Mental 
Health Crisis Act, no matter where 
physicians are in America, to have access 
to psychologists and psychiatrists 
and social workers and to integrate 
that care together, this is what makes 
a huge difference. 

Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh did 
a study of when that behavioral health 
consultation is done during the pediatrician 
visit, when there is a warm 

handoff, right away the family meets 
the mental health professional, there is 
over a 90-percent followup for that patient 
with the doctor. When they are 
given a card and said to call another 
day, it plummets to less than half. 

Similarly, look at the problems we 
face with opioid abuse in America. Last 
year, we had a death total of 47,000. We 
are reaching the point of the number of 
people who die from opioid substance 
abuse is reaching that of the level of 
our combat deaths during the entire 
Vietnam war. It is an embarrassing, 
shameful, and painful thing for our Nation 
to have, and that doesn’t even include 
the many, many folks who still 
remain addicted. 

But here is what happens with care 
for the addicted. Out of every 1,000 persons 
who has an addiction disorder, 900 
will not seek care. Of the 100 who do 
seek care, 37 can’t find it. It is not 
available in their community. Of the 63 
who do seek care and find it, only 6 of 
them will find evidence-based care. 

But what if we change that trajectory? 
What if we say as part of moving 
forward in our revision of the Affordable 
Care Act and making it really effective 
health care we made sure we integrated 
behavioral and physical medicine 
together? 

A study done at the University of 
Michigan, I believe, or Michigan 
State—I have to make sure I get those 
right because I know Chairman UPTON 
would not forgive me, but let’s say it 
was done in Michigan—they did a fascinating 
study where they made sure 
when someone came to the emergency 
room with a drug overdose, they didn’t 
do the typical thing and hand someone 
a card and say: you know, you have a 
drug problem; you need to go get help. 
In those cases, many times the vast 
majority of people don’t follow up. 

Instead, what they did is they provided 
qualified drug counseling in the 
emergency room. From the same 
model, if a person had a broken arm, 
the hospital would set it before they 
went home. They wouldn’t say: here is 
a card; call an orthopedic surgeon on 
Monday and get that arm set. If a person 
came in with chest pains, they 
wouldn’t say: why don’t you make an 
appointment in a week or two with a 
cardiologist. They would treat it right 
away. Well, the same thing goes with 
psychiatric disorders and drug abuse. 

What Michigan found in their study 
and replicated in other communities is 
there was a 50-percent increase of people 
following through on drug treatment. 


So look at the things that are done. 
The bill we passed yesterday also invests 
hundreds of millions of dollars 
into more effective treatment for people 
with a substance abuse problem. It 
isn’t enough just to have them in 
methadone maintenance or 
buprenorphine programs. Those will 
not be as effective. You have got to get 
them into effective counseling programs. 


So what we see is this: The bipartisan 
efforts that have worked through 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7103 

here and have made some big differences 
in where we are going with research 
and care will set us on a strong 
trajectory to making a big difference 
as this Congress and the new President 
work to change the Affordable Care 
Act to really being affordable and really 
being care-focused. 

That being said, we will still have, 
tragically, too many stories while we 
are waiting to get that care out there. 
We will still have too many episodes: a 
homicide, or a suicide, or a drug overdose 
death, or someone has lost their 
job, or a marriage is broken up, or families 
who have been abandoned by 
someone else, or children who are lost, 
or those who are homeless. It continues 
on as long as we are not properly addressing 
the issues of mental illness in 
America. 

I tell you, even though we have those 
long, somber moments of sadness, 
there is some joy in what this House 
did yesterday in this strong, bipartisan, 
coordinated effort to say we are 
changing the direction of how we recognize 
mental health care, what we are 
going to do about that, and how that 
has to be an integral component as we 
move forward to change health overall. 
We can do this. We can reduce costs 
dramatically by providing better and 
more effective care. 

So for all those families who have 
been contacting us Members of Congress, 
literally the millions of Americans 
who are suffering from these diseases 
of mental illness and the tens of 
millions of families who recognize the 
suffering there, help is on its way. The 
actions that Congress took yesterday, 
the actions that we anticipate the Senate 
will take next week, the signature 
of the President will move these things 
forward. We will create a new dawn, a 
brighter horizon for people who, up to 
this point, had very little hope of 
where things are. 

We know we have a long way to go, 
and we know this next Congress, as we 
move into the next session next year, 
is going to have their hands full, but 
we can do this. And I know there are 
dedicated people here on both sides of 
the aisle just waiting and eager to 
make a big difference for America’s 
families. And where there is help, there 
is hope. 

Mr. MULLIN. Mr. Speaker, as you 
can see, the gentleman from Pennsylvania 
is extremely passionate about 
this. He has been the leader and a voice 
for mental illness for my entire time 
that I have been up here, which hasn’t 
been that long—only 4 years—but we 
appreciate his passion and his dedication 
to this. 

Unfortunately, mental illness isn’t 
going away. It is becoming more of a 
problem. And we, as Members of Congress, 
are going to have to address this. 
I look forward to continuing to work 
with the chairman on this. 

Yesterday was a step in the right direction, 
but we have a long way to go. 
We are in this fight, and we are in this 
fight together. I couldn’t imagine being 

with anyone better than the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania. So I thank him for 
his dedication. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman 
from Indiana (Mrs. BROOKS). 

Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Before the 
chairman of our committee steps away, 
I just want to acknowledge the leadership 
that Congressman MURPHY of 
Pennsylvania has given to this issue— 
an issue that so many Members of Congress 
haven’t talked about enough 
until he began talking about it. 

I want to thank the gentleman from 
Oklahoma (Mr. MULLIN), for leading 
this Special Order. We have heard from 
our constituents, and we know families 
where 1 in 4 adults—a total of 61.5 million 
Americans—will struggle with 
mental illness in any given year. While 
the numbers are staggering—and certainly, 
my colleague from Pennsylvania 
knows the numbers and statistics 
better than maybe this Chamber 
combined—they don’t actually tell the 
deeply personal and typically painful 
stories that this disease inflicts on 
those it touches, their friends, neighbors, 
and families. 

Whether it was Columbine, Aurora, 
or Sandy Hook, time and time again, 
tragedies have left our communities 
devastated and reeling, wondering if 
our fellow citizens could have been 
spared the violence and bloodshed had 
we simply been able to see the signs of 
mental illness. 

Many lessons followed in the wake of 
all of these tragedies, but chief among 
them always came out the fact that 
our mental health system is broken: we 
are unable to fully recognize the signs 
and symptoms of an individual suffering 
from mental illness; we often 
don’t have the resources to help these 
individuals and their families; and we 
have very limited mental health workforce, 
which is overwhelmed and often 
underprepared for the vast challenges 
they face day in and day out. 

Mental illness is sometimes referred 
to as an invisible illness. However, just 
because you can’t see the illness, it 
doesn’t mean it isn’t there. It is a serious 
disease, and in order to make any 
progress in more effectively identifying 
it, we must begin to recognize it as 
such. 

Before the end of this year, we have 
a chance to make the first major mental 
health reforms this country has 
seen in over 50 years. And I am very 
proud to stand with the gentleman 
from Pennsylvania in support of his 
years of tireless work to bring to the 
forefront this health crisis we are facing 
in America—a crisis often pushed 
to the side because it may be too difficult 
or too uncomfortable to talk 
about. I applaud his efforts and the efforts 
of so many from our committee, 
particularly the staff, who have made 
it possible to work to include these important 
reforms to our mental health 
system in the critical 21st Century 
Cures bill that passed the House last 
night overwhelmingly. 

Right now, our medical system does 
not allow families of those suffering 

from mental illness to become true 
partners in their care. The language in 
our bill takes significant steps toward 
easing these barriers and making sure 
that people struggling with mental illness 
will have more access to the care 
and treatment that they need. 

Our prisons and emergency rooms 
have become de facto psychiatric treatment 
centers and are overcrowded with 
individuals suffering from mental illness; 
however, we have learned over 
the years we cannot simply arrest 
away this problem. I am pleased that 
there are reforms to the way our criminal 
justice system handles individuals 
with mental illness. As someone who 
has worked in the criminal justice system 
most of my career, I can assess 
that such support is long overdue and 
so very necessary. 

One of the greatest issues with our 
mental health system is there is a critical 
shortage, as Dr. Murphy just mentioned, 
in our mental health workforce. 
This effort contains significant measures 
to train and expand this critically 
important workforce. 

b 1845 
These are simply a few of the important 
reforms included in 21st Century 
Cures which, above all else, sets a new 
and higher standard for mental health 
care and treatment in America. 
Once again, I applaud Congressman 
MURPHY’s incredible work to fix our 
broken mental health care system. I 
am proud to have supported this effort 
throughout the legislative process and 
look to the Senate to now take up the 
21st Century Cures and bring relief to 
the individuals and families across 
America who need it the most. 
Mr. MULLIN. Mr. Speaker, it is always 
an honor to have people that are 
willing to come down and share their 
time and their passion with us, so I 
would like to thank my colleague from 
Indiana for laying it out in such an eloquent 
form like she always does. 
Also, congratulations on the committee 
assignment. I don’t know if I 
wish the gentlewoman good luck or 
not. 
Mr. Speaker, at this time I yield to 
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. 
DOLD). 
Mr. DOLD. Mr. Speaker, I want to 
thank my friend from Oklahoma for 
yielding on what is an incredibly important 
topic. 
I also want to weigh in and thank my 
good friend, Dr. TIM MURPHY, for his 
incredible work on a really comprehensive 
piece of mental health legislation. 
I want to not only congratulate him, I 
want to thank him for successfully 
shepherding this first real piece of 
mental health legislation, honestly, 
since 1962. It is now up to the Senate to 
move this forward. 
I am pleased to be here as not only 
an original cosponsor, but helped introduce 
the Helping Families in Mental 
Health Crisis Act, which was now attached 
to this recent 21st Century 
Cures bill, another bill that I am proud 
to not only stand up and support. 


H7104 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

As we look at cures, as we look at 
what we are doing, we see so much tension 
across our country today. We just 
got done with a national election, and, 
frankly, it seems as people are at each 
others’ throats. And the one thing that 
we can agree on, I hope, regardless of 
whom you voted for, we should all be 
on the same page that we want 21st 
Century Cures to move forward; because, 
frankly, as we look at the number 
of people that are suffering from diabetes, 
Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and 
the like, they don’t care what political 
persuasion you are. They are just impacting 
families all across our country. 

Another huge piece of that is mental 
health; and as we look at mental 
health, there is no question, family 
after family, an enormous number of 
people, nearly 10 million Americans, 
suffer from a serious mental health 
issue, including schizophrenia, bipolar 
disorder, major depression, amongst 
others. Yet millions of these people are 
going without treatment, and their 
families are struggling to care for 
them each and every day. 

We need to talk about treatment. 
Treatment before tragedy is something 
that I know has been talked about time 
and again. 

The Federal Government currently 
dedicates about $130 billion towards 112 
programs intended to address mental 
health, but there is still a nationwide 
shortage of nearly 100,000 beds needed 
for psychiatric care and only one child 
and adolescent psychiatrist for every 
2,000 children with a mental health disorder. 
Frankly, that is just unacceptable. 


My constituents have come to me 
time and again demanding that we do 
better. The Filler Foundation comes to 
mind as something that we have to do 
because, again, as we look at mental 
health, one of the things that we know 
is tied to that is this incredible epidemic 
of prescription drugs and opiates 
that are really just impacting every 
single community across our country. 
Ultimately, we know that this mental 
health disorder is a huge part of that, 
as people are trying to self-medicate, 
and so people are overdosing and dying 
on a regular basis. 

Ultimately, this bill that we are 
talking about today helps and now allows 
those families to give better care, 
be better informed, so that parents or 
caregivers can actually play a more 
vital role. 

In July, we passed the Helping Families 
in Mental Health Crisis Act, 422–2. 
And just recently, this other bill that 
we just passed, the 21st Century Cures, 
that included this mental health legislation, 
passed with enormous bipartisan 
support right here in this body. It 
is time that the Senate take up this 
legislation and pass it. 

I am confident that the incredible 
providers that are in my district, the 
families who are in need that have been 
asking for help, will benefit from the 
many grants that we reauthorized, the 
updates that we have made to improve 

communication between the patients, 
the families, and the providers, and the 
steps that we took to ensure that insurance 
providers are complying with 
existing mental health parity laws. 

Over the past 2 years, Dr. Murphy’s 
efforts have engaged Democrats and 
Republicans from every region of the 
country. Just a few short months ago, 
and I am sure—I don’t know if he was 
in Oklahoma with my good friend, but 
I know he came out to my district. We 
had a roundtable talking about mental 
health issues. We went and visited 
some of the facilities together to talk 
about the real needs that are out there. 
Ultimately, we know that mental 
health impacts so many families across 
our country. 

I would venture to say, Mr. Speaker, 
that not a single Member in this body 
has not been impacted in some way, 
shape, or form, by a loved one, a friend, 
a family member that is suffering from 
some sort of mental illness. So I believe 
that we have an incredible opportunity 
here. 

Ultimately, when I go out and I talk 
to people—and I know my good friend, 
I am sure, has done the same—they 
say: Is Congress working? And the answer 
oftentimes is no. But I do think 
that we have to step back and take a 
look at what we can accomplish when 
we actually do come together. 

Something that we all should be 
proud of is the fact that we were able 
to move forward in this body to talk 
about not only 21st Century Cures, 
talking about funding for the National 
Institutes of Health, talking about trying 
to deal with some of the prescription 
drug and opiate epidemics, but 
really trying to tackle head-on the 
issue of mental health and the impacts 
that this has for our Nation. 

So I want to thank my good friend 
from Oklahoma for organizing this 
Special Order. I want to thank, obviously, 
my good friend, Dr. MURPHY, for 
the great work that he has been doing 
for years on this. 

And I do want to make sure that the 
American people know that today we 
took a big step forward and, honestly, 
we are not going to rest until this is 
signed into law by the President and 
really enabling so many families to get 
a tremendous amount of relief. 

Mr. MULLIN. I thank the gentleman 
for his service. My good friend from Illinois 
is going to be missed. His service 
has been something we can all hold in 
great respect. I am going to miss seeing 
him in the morning at our workout, 
but he has influenced us in a better 
way. If we can always leave where 
we have been better than we found it, 
that is a legacy we can all walk with. 
I thank the gentleman for his service, 
and I hope our friendship will continue. 

Mr. Speaker, as my friend from Illinois 
was saying about the opioid addiction, 
I want to point out a sad statistic. 
Oklahoma is ranked 28th in population 
throughout the country, and 
yet we had the 10th highest—10th highest—
accidental opioid overdose deaths. 

We have more accidental drug overdose 
deaths caused by painkiller addictions 
than vehicle accidents in the State of 
Oklahoma. 

And these aren’t from the young who 
may be going through a time of experimenting. 
This isn’t from the elderly 
who may not understand the prescription 
which they are taking. This is 
coming from our mothers. Our number 
one—number one—individual that is 
losing their life to opioid overdose is 
our middle-aged mothers. There is a 
problem. 

The 21st Century Cures does address 
this, but just the same as mental 
health, it is a first step in the right direction. 


Mr. Speaker, at this time I yield to 
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. 
PERRY), another good friend of mine, a 
true patriot to this country, one who 
has years and years of service. I have a 
tremendous amount of respect for him. 

Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman, my friend from the 
great State of Oklahoma. I am privileged 
to have visited not only his 
State, but his district, and met the fabulous 
and wonderful people there, and 
they are lucky to have him representing 
them here. 

You talk about that statistic, and I 
am here to talk specifically about mental 
illness, but this opioid epidemic has 
touched every single community. You 
don’t have to live in the city. You 
don’t have to live in underprivileged 
areas. I know very good friends that it 
has wracked their families, and it has 
wracked our communities. 

Certainly, one of the great things 
about the 21st Century Cures Act is the 
help that is on the way. It is probably 
not going to be enough, but we need to 
do everything we can, at least in making 
these first steps in wrapping our 
minds and our hands around this problem 
and getting to a solution. 

So I am thankful that the gentleman 
has taken the time to hold this Special 
Order, to bring that, as well as the 
other issues, up, and I appreciate that. 

Mr. Speaker, I want to talk a little 
bit about the mental health situation 
in our country, and I think the gentleman 
has alluded to much of it in his 
conversation. 

Mr. Speaker, more than 11 million 
Americans suffer from severe schizophrenia, 
bipolar disorder, and major depression, 
yet millions—literally millions—
are going without any treatment 
whatsoever. And families, these 
families are struggling to care for 
these people. 

You have a broken arm or some physical 
malady, you can see that and you 
can get to a cure in many, many cases. 
But these mental illnesses vex us, 
where your loved one is fine one moment 
and the next moment is not, and 
you don’t know when that is going to 
happen or the gravity of the situation, 
how bad it might be at any given moment. 
These are our loved ones. These 
are our family members and our neighbors. 



December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7105 

The Federal Government’s approach 
to mental health has been a chaotic 
patchwork of antiquated programs and 
ineffective policies spread across numerous 
bureaucratic agencies that simply 
don’t get to the issue at hand, and 
I think we can all see that. 

Sadly, many patients end up in the 
criminal justice system or are on the 
street because services are unavailable. 
I know that in the State that I reside 
in, the great State of Pennsylvania, 
years back, we closed our State hospitals 
where much of the care was 
given to these people, and they just 
ended up out on the street or back with 
their families, which often are cases 
that their families just don’t know 
what to do. They don’t know how to 
handle it. They can’t handle it. 

Then these folks end up in the penal 
system, which is no place for people 
that justifiably are sick. They have an 
issue. They are sick. They are not 
criminals, but they are sick. 

In the worst case scenarios, some individuals 
commit acts of violence. And 
every one of us has heard the stories 
and seen the film footage on the news 
of these acts of violence that can be directly 
attributable to mental illness. 

Now, we should be able to feel safe in 
our homes, all of us, in our communities, 
and our hearts just break every 
single time a senseless act of violence 
occurs and we see that. And certainly, 
for parents, these tragedies, they hit 
especially close to home. 

We need to remember that the beneficiaries 
of mental health treatment 
aren’t only those directly treated for 
mental illness, but also our broader 
community when we see those things, 
those images on TV, because mental 
health treatment is a preventive measure 
to reducing acts of violence. It is a 
preventive measure. It actually stops 
those things from ever occurring if we 
get to it. 

Now, I was an enthusiastic supporter 
and cosponsor of my colleague Congressman 
TIM MURPHY’s Helping Families 
in Mental Health Crisis Act. He literally 
worked on it for years, and I 
watched him struggle through that. 
And that bill was actually included in 
the 21st Century Cures Act, which 
passed this very House last night. 

This legislation coordinates programs 
across different agencies, those 
disparate agencies that don’t seem to 
work with one another, where information 
is siloed. It coordinates that, 
those programs, and promotes effective 
evidence-based programs, evidence-
based so we can get to solutions. 

Just like most other things with the 
Federal Government, by removing Federal 
barriers to care, advancing early 
intervention programs, adding alternatives 
to institutionalization, and improving 
the transition from one level of 
care to another, we directly address 
our Nation’s broken mental health care 
system, finally. Finally, a step in the 
right direction. 

So, once again, I applaud and thank 
the gentleman from Oklahoma for al


lowing me this time and bringing this 
issue to the floor; and I urge my colleagues 
in the Senate to send this bill 
directly to the President’s desk, absolutely, 
as soon as possible. We can’t 
wait for another tragedy to occur 
where we are all watching on television 
the footage of something that could 
have been prevented and avoided. 

Mr. MULLIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
my colleague from Pennsylvania for 
also being extremely passionate about 
moving in the right direction with 
mental health. It is something that we 
continue to look over. 

As I stated when we first started tonight, 
we had an overwhelming amount 
of bipartisan support on passing the 
21st Century Cures Act. We could see 
that the hard work that the staff over 
in the Energy and Commerce Committee, 
on both sides, the Republican 
staff and the Democratic staff, worked 
together to come up with a bipartisan 
bill to make sure that we are putting 
our families first, that we are putting 
our constituents first. 

b 1900 
We are setting aside the partisanship 
that often finds its way inside our conversations. 
We set it aside and actually 
were very proactive on a very important 
piece of legislation. 
I would like to thank Chairman MURPHY, 
with his passion on mental health, 
and our outgoing chairman, Mr. FRED 
UPTON, who has dedicated his years of 
service to the betterment of our constituents 
and his passion for fighting 
this and seeing this through. I would 
like to thank him for his dedication. 
The gentleman will be missed as our 
chairman. 
Mr. Speaker, I see no other speakers 
at this time. I yield back the balance of 
my time. 

f 

CELEBRATING THE DREAMERS 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
6, 2015, the gentleman from Texas 
(Mr. O’ROURKE) is recognized for 60 
minutes as the designee of the minority 
leader. 

GENERAL LEAVE 

Mr. O’ROURKE. Mr. Speaker, I ask 
unanimous consent that all Members 
may have 5 legislative days to revise 
and extend their remarks and include 
extraneous material on the subject of 
this Special Order. 

The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there 
objection to the request of the gentleman 
from Texas? 

There was no objection. 

Mr. O’ROURKE. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to share the stories of and celebrate 
the DREAMers who live in our 
communities, mine in El Paso, Texas, 
and nearly every single community 
across the great United States. 

All together, we estimate there are 
close to 750,000 DREAMers in the 
United States. These are beneficiaries 
of an executive action under this President, 
known as the Deferred Action for 

Childhood Arrivals, that ensured that 
young people in our communities who 
arrived in this country at a very early 
age, brought here by their parents from 
another country of origin, who are 
going to school, living by our laws, 
being productive and net contributors 
to their communities, and who, in 
some cases, strive to serve in the military 
or perform some other community 
or civic service, are able to reside in 
this country after they come forward 
voluntarily out of the shadows to give 
their personal information, their fingerprints, 
their contact information, 
their names, their addresses, and their 
telephone numbers, in other words, to 
register with the government so that 
we know who is in this country and 
satisfy some legitimate security concerns 
that we have when it comes to 
undocumented immigration. So these 
young DREAMers have satisfied those 
concerns by coming forward. 

This temporary reprieve from deportation 
allows them to continue to live 
in our communities, to continue to be 
our neighbors, to continue to make 
this country great, and to make cities 
like El Paso the safe and wonderful 
communities that they are. It is no accident 
that El Paso has more than its 
fair share of DREAMers and also is the 
safest city not just along the U.S.-Mexico 
border, it is the safest city not just 
in the State of Texas, but it is the 
safest city in the United States today. 

The urgency behind our actions 
today lies with the commitment from 
the President-elect to immediately terminate 
the current President’s executive 
actions when it comes to these 
DREAMers. This commitment to terminate 
this action will also terminate 
any certainty these young people have. 
It will reduce the security of our communities 
when young people no longer 
feel comfortable approaching or working 
with law enforcement for fear of deportation; 
and it produces extreme 
anxiety and fear that I can only begin 
to imagine for myself or for my kids if 
I knew that I had given all of my personal 
identifiable information, including 
the address at which I reside, my 
telephone number, and the names of 
my parents, to the Federal Government 
which now may have a policy to 
immediately deport me back to the 
country of origin and, if I were, as a 
typical DREAMer might be, 20 years 
old and attending the University of 
Texas in El Paso, may have lived in El 
Paso for the majority of my life. I may 
have come over at the age of 3, and for 
the last 17 years, the only life I knew 
was in the United States; the only city 
I knew was in El Paso, Texas; the only 
language I spoke was English. I had no 
family, no connections, no place in my 
country of original origin, and I didn’t 
speak the language. Then I would be 
unable to thrive. 

I think for some of these young people, 
they question whether they will 
have the ability to survive. I think it is 
really that critical, and it is very important 
that we remind ourselves, the 


H7106 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

rest of the country, and certainly our 
colleagues here in the House of the 
gravity of the situation. 

Beyond the moral imperative, which 
I think is the most important, there is 
also an economic dynamic to this. The 
Department of Commerce estimates 
that the DREAMers, these 750,000-
strong DREAMers who are contributing 
every single day in our communities, 
going to our high schools and 
making our country better, that over 
their lifetimes in the United States 
they will earn up to $4 trillion of taxable 
income—taxable income that will 
allow the community they live in to 
flourish, to thrive, to enrich those that 
they hire and work with, and to add 
significantly to the Federal Treasury. 

That is just one point in terms of the 
economic advantage of creating additional 
certainty and, at a minimum, 
not forcibly removing these DREAMers 
or terminating the protection under 
which they currently reside. 

Before I yield to my colleagues to 
share their stories about the DREAMers 
in their communities—and, again, 
they are in every single State of the 
Union and almost every community in 
every one of those States—I thought I 
would share the story of one of the 
DREAMers that I met this Monday in 
El Paso, Texas, when I held a townhall 
on short notice, a few days’ notice to 
my constituents over Facebook and 
Twitter and published in the newspaper. 


More than 300 El Pasoans showed up 
to share their stories of how they came 
to this country and what they are now 
doing in our communities. What was 
even more impressive and poignant for 
me and many in the audience that 
night were the U.S. citizens in El Paso 
who showed up to stand in solidarity 
and in strength with these DREAMers 
and to let them know that, come what 
may, whatever executive actions are 
terminated, whatever necessary immigration 
reform laws are not enacted, 
that we as a community in El Paso, 
Texas, are going to stand with these 
DREAMers, make sure that they are 
successful, and make sure that they 
have nothing to fear going forward. 

One of these DREAMers that had the 
courage to stand up and be counted on 
Monday night was Estefania Garcia 
Ruvalcaba. She is 17 years old. She arrived 
in the United States in El Paso, 
Texas, which has served as the Ellis Island 
for much of the Western Hemisphere, 
at the age of 3 years old. I ask 
you to tell me what 3-year-old understands 
concepts like citizenship or nationality. 


She doesn’t speak the Spanish language 
anymore that she barely knew at 
the age of 3. She only speaks English. 
She is a junior at Del Valle High 
School in El Paso. She is captain of the 
soccer team. She is on the student 
council. She is the press box manager, 
and so she is earning a little bit of 
money to be able to take home at the 
end of the day and help out; and she 
goes to every single football game to 

be able to support the hometown and 
home high school team. On top of that, 
she runs on the cross-country team. 

My 8-year-old daughter, Molly 
O’Rourke, has an example in Estefania. 
I want Molly to be able to do all those 
things. I am proud of Estefania. She is 
part of what makes El Paso such a 
wonderful place to live and what makes 
me so proud to represent the community 
and helps us, again, stay the safest 
city in America, bar none. 

There are 750,000-plus Estefanias who 
have come forward to register with 
their government to make sure that we 
know that they are in our communities 
to defer the action that otherwise 
would deport them back to their countries 
of origin and to make this country 
successful. 

At this time, I yield to a good friend 
and colleague from the great State of 
Texas, who understands these issues 
just as well as anyone, who has thousands 
of DREAMers in his community, 
and whom I am so grateful to for being 
here tonight. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman 
from Texas (Mr. CASTRO). 

Mr. CASTRO of Texas. I thank Congressman 
O’ROURKE. I thank the gentleman 
for all of his work on behalf of 
these DREAMers, these young students 
who were brought to the United States 
through no fault of their own. They 
have grown up here, many of them 
knowing no other life except an American 
life. 

President Obama, during his term, 
was so good to issue an executive action 
known as DACA to give these 
folks who were in a legal limbo a 
chance to participate in American society. 
So many of them have gone on and 
are doing great things. DACA allows 
them to work, to go to school, and, 
most of all, to not have to live in fear, 
not have to live in fear of deportation. 

As you mentioned, many of these 
folks are people who were brought here 
at the age of 3 or 5 or 9 and had no 
choice about coming. Some of them 
didn’t even realize that they were not 
American citizens until they had to 
apply to college or try to get a driver’s 
license or in some other way interact 
with the government. 

There has been a lot of rhetoric over 
the past few years about immigrants. 
They have been called rapists, murderers, 
and criminals. There is so much 
of that kind of rhetoric that is used 
when people talk about the border, for 
example, and even the people that live 
in our border cities, whether it is El 
Paso or San Diego or McAllen, Texas. 
My wife is from the Rio Grande Valley, 
where you have a high concentration of 
DREAMers, for example. Sometimes, 
in all of that rhetoric and ugliness, 
there is a profound misunderstanding 
about who these people are. So I thank 
the gentleman for helping to highlight 
their stories and, really, for the country, 
to put a human face to these folks 
who are good people. 

I will tell you, because I know other 
Members have stories of DREAMers in 

their districts, just a quick story about 
somebody from San Antonio, a young 
man named Eric Balderas. His story 
was in the news in the last few years. 

Eric was the valedictorian in 2009 of 
Highlands High School. He was number 
one in his class at Highlands High 
School, and he was on the academic decathlon 
team, student council, and 
even played varsity soccer. He also received 
a full scholarship to Harvard 
University. 

While returning to Harvard in 2010 to 
complete summer research in molecular 
biology, Eric was detained at the 
San Antonio International Airport for 
traveling without acceptable identification. 
After efforts from Senator 
DURBIN and the Harvard University 
president, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services was able to grant him 
deferred action status. Eric’s story, so 
far, has had a happy ending. He graduated 
from Harvard in 2013. 

There have been other folks who have 
achieved just as much, who are productive 
members of our country and our 
society, but oftentimes they are maligned, 
and they are often misunderstood. 


Right now, we are at a critical moment 
in our country’s history. There is 
a question hanging over the Nation 
about how we will treat these DREAMers, 
these young students, these young 
people, again, who find themselves in 
legal limbo, who are as American as we 
are, and who have only known America 
as their homeland. There is a big question 
about what will happen with 
them. 

The President-elect has talked about 
getting rid of DACA early on, perhaps 
on the first day in office. So, as I am 
sure you found, there is a lot of anxiety 
from these young people and also their 
families about what is going to happen 
to them. They have played by the 
rules; they are being productive; they 
are working hard; they are going to 
school; they are paying their taxes; and 
they are living as Americans. 

This will be a real test for the Congress, 
for the President-elect, who, on 
January 20, will be the new President, 
and, really, for the Nation about what 
kind of nation we are. This really tugs 
at our conscience. 

When we think about some of the 
rhetoric that has been used—some people 
call them criminals. They say that 
they broke the law. I think when I hear 
that, as an attorney, I think about the 
different legal standards that we apply 
in criminal cases. For example, there is 
something known as mens rea, state of 
mind. Often when you are charged with 
a crime, a jury or a judge asks: Did you 
intend to do what you did? Did you 
know what you were doing? 

Even in our civil cases when we think 
about the negligence standard, there is 
still a question about whether somebody 
was indifferent to what they were 
doing. Well, in this case, these young 
people had no idea what was going on. 
They had no participation in even coming 
to the United States, but they find 
themselves here as Americans. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7107 

b 1915 

I hope that our Nation and this Congress 
and the next President will be big 
enough, will be gracious enough, will 
respect their humanity, do the right 
thing, and make sure that they are 
protected under the law. 

First of all, thank you for holding 
your town hall, which may have been 
the first one in this season after the 
election. We are going to have one in 
San Antonio on December 11, which is 
a Sunday, with State Representative 
Diego Bernal, who really helped organize 
it and spearhead it; Congressman 
LLOYD DOGGETT, who also represents 
part of San Antonio; State Senator 
Jose Menendez. 

There are also other Members who I 
know are going to hold similar town 
halls in their cities. I will read off just 
a few of them because I think it is important 
to acknowledge that work: 

PETE AGUILAR in San Bernardino, 
California; TONY CA´ RDENAS in Los Angeles, 
California; RUBEN GALLEGO in 
Phoenix, Arizona; RAU´ L GRIJALVA in 
Tucson, Arizona; MICHELLE LUJAN 
GRISHAM in New Mexico; and RAUL 
RUIZ, who has a district in southern 
California. I know that there are others 
that are being scheduled. 

I think all of this work is so important 
because when we talk about 
DACA, we are not talking about a piece 
of legislation that is going to take 
months to come through the House of 
Representatives and the Senate. This is 
something, a decision, that the new 
President on January 20 can make a 
decision to do away with it completely 
and to subject these kids to deportation, 
often to a country that they have 
never known, that they have no recollection 
of being a part of or growing up 
in. This really is a moral question, as 
you mentioned, for the country that 
pulls at our conscience. 

Thank you for all your work. 

Mr. O’ROURKE. Mr. Speaker, I can’t 
thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr. 
CASTRO) enough for taking the time to 
be here for his leadership on this issue. 
Not just after this election, and not 
just since he has been in the House of 
Representatives, but really his whole 
life has been exemplary in his advocacy 
for the most vulnerable amongst us in 
ensuring the truth about the story of 
these young people who come to our 
country. 

It is not simply a matter of sympathy—
although, I sympathize with 
their situation—it is also a matter of 
our self-interest as a country. As we 
continue to look for ways to become a 
stronger and better country, so much 
of that lies with those who have made 
the very difficult choice to come here 
and contribute to our success and contribute 
to the American Dream. I am 
grateful to you for continuing to advocate 
for them and to share those stories 
with the rest of the country. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman 
from the State of Massachusetts (Mr. 
KENNEDY), another very good friend 
from a State that has known its share 

of amazing stories of immigration and 
seeing those immigrants flourish and 
become the best of us in this country. 

Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
Congressman O’ROURKE for yielding 
and for organizing this critical Special 
Order. 

Most importantly, thank you for 
your fierce advocacy for people of your 
district, for people of our country, for 
immigrants, and for DREAMers. 

Let me begin by echoing your comments 
and that of our colleague, Mr. 
CASTRO’s, as well. The stories that you 
both have shared underscore the urgency 
that we face in protecting these 
children and young adults from deportation 
under the next administration. 

Tonight, right now, there are high 
school seniors across our country writing 
college essays, compiling recommendations, 
and filling out applications 
who are not sure if they will be 
allowed to stay in this country when it 
comes time to enroll in classes. 

There are elementary and middle 
school students that are working diligently 
on their homework because, one 
day, they want to pursue a college education 
or work in their communities, 
but now they are not sure if that day 
will come. 

There are young professionals working 
in our factories, teaching in our 
schools, volunteering in our neighborhoods, 
or even preparing to join the 
military that are going to sleep tonight 
worried that, when the calendar 
strikes 2017, the only life that they 
have ever known might be shattered. 

All of these children, these young 
people, all 740,000 of them, they are our 
future. They put their trust in us, their 
government, in our promise to protect 
them if they stepped out of the shadows. 


Today, that faith is frayed. It is our 
responsibility, all of ours, as this body, 
to commit to them that the only country 
that they know will not wash away 
their contributions, those that they 
have made, and send them to an unfamiliar 
land; because they believe in the 
American Dream just as our ancestors 
did and as we do today; because they 
are DREAMers; because they are our 
neighbors, our friends, our classmates, 
our community, and so much more; because 
they are countrymen. 

Down this hallway in the Senate, a 
few of our Republican colleagues have 
already started on legislation to protect 
DACA beneficiaries. In order to 
lift the cloud of doubt for thousands in 
our country, fighting for their rights 
must be our priority today and every 
day until we succeed. 

Congressman O’ROURKE, Congressman 
CASTRO, and my colleagues gathered 
here with us this evening, thank 
you for your work, thank you for your 
passion, thank you for your commitment. 
I know that we are on the right 
side of this fight when I see all of you 
standing here. 

Mr. O’ROURKE. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman from Massachusetts 
(Mr. KENNEDY) for his eloquence on this 

and for his empathy in allowing us to 
try to think about what it must feel 
like to be working on that finals paper 
or that homework assignment in high 
school or at community college or at 
one of our great universities and not 
know if at the start of next semester 
you will find yourself in another country, 
in a place that is now strange to 
you, with a language that you don’t 
speak. 

When we think about this, when we 
think about these mass deportations, 
literally using the information that 
these young people and their families 
came forward with to register under 
the DACA program, and then using 
that against them after they voluntarily 
came forward, to find out where 
they live, pick them up, process them, 
deport them back to their country of 
origin, beyond the incalculable emotional 
human psychological toll, beyond 
what that would do to the conscience 
of this country, look at what it 
would cost us in financial terms. We 
would lose 2 to 2.6 percent of our GDP. 
We would lose nearly $5 trillion over 
the next 10 years, and government receipts 
on the trillions of dollars that 
these DREAMers would otherwise earn 
would also be gone with those DREAMers—
nearly $900 billion that we would 
lose from the United States Treasury. 

We would lose young Americans like 
the one who is pictured next to me, 
David Gamez, who is now 20 years old 
and who joined us Monday at our town 
hall in El Paso, Texas, one of these 
brave young El Pasoans, young Americans, 
who had the courage to come forward, 
and shared with us at that town 
hall that he came to this country at 
the age of 10. He came from Mexico 
City. He immediately applied himself, 
learned English, rose to the top of the 
ranks in his high school classes, took 
AP courses, is now a member of the 
STEM club at the El Paso Community 
College, and is pursuing a career in 
electrical engineering. He is an artist, 
he loves to draw, he loves to paint, and 
he wants to be an innovator. His heroes 
are all American heroes. His heroes are 
Elon Musk, Bill Gates, and Larry Ellison, 
those people who are contributing 
to our country, creating jobs, innovating, 
creating, growing this economy. 
That is what David wants to do. 
That is what he will do if he is able to 
stay in this country. 

I think it is so important for us to 
give David the certainty and, also at 
the same time, not to provoke anxiety 
and fear that will cause him to lose 
this opportunity, to lose his way, and 
for us to lose out on all the amazing 
things that he can create. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman 
from Nevada (Ms. TITUS), who I 
have the pleasure of sitting with on the 
Veterans’ Affairs Committee and who, 
over the last 4 years, I have learned 
from because she is the most tireless 
champion for veterans. She is the most 
tireless champion for the LGBT community. 
She is often the most tireless 
champion for those who do not have a 


H7108 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

voice in our system or whose voice is 
not loud enough. So it is up to Ms. 
TITUS to amplify that voice and become 
their advocate. 

Ms. TITUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
Congressman O’ROURKE for yielding. 
You are too kind in your compliments. 
I give them right back to you. We have 
worked together on many things, including 
veterans and public lands, and 
now this very pressing issue of what we 
can do to protect our DREAMers. 

Since the election, my office has just 
been deluged by phone calls from the 
DACA recipients, those we call 
DREAMers, from their friends, and 
from their family. They are afraid. You 
can just hear the fear in their voice. 
They are just calling to ask questions: 
Will I be deported? Will my friends be 
deported? Will my family be separated? 
Will I lose my house? Will I lose my 
job? Will I lose my scholarship? Should 
I apply for DACA? Should I apply to 
renew DACA? Or should I just keep my 
head down and hope that they don’t notice 
that I am here? 

It just tears your heart out. That is 
one of the reasons that in my district, 
in Las Vegas, we held a round table, 
not a town hall. We started with those 
organizations who help DREAMers. We 
had Catholic charities; we had the university, 
UNLV; we had other institutions 
of higher education; we had the 
Latin Chamber; and we had the Mexican 
and the Salvadoran Consulate all 
gathered around the table because we 
don’t know how to answer those questions. 
We wanted to be sure we were all 
on the same page, giving people the 
same advice, and reassuring them that 
whatever happens, we will be there for 
them. That helps a little, but still you 
want to be able to say: This is what 
you are facing. 

I know I am not the only one getting 
these calls. They are coming from 
kitchens and living rooms and restaurants 
and stores and families all 
across this country, as you have heard 
from some of the other speakers here 
tonight. For our DREAMers and their 
families, this fear and anxiety will continue 
to grow. I am afraid they are just 
going to return to the shadows if we 
don’t act soon to responsibly reform 
our immigration system. 

Now, as yet, we have heard very little 
from the Trump transition team 
about what is actually going to happen 
to the DREAMers once President 
Obama leaves office. 

Will they round up people and send 
them back? Will they build that wall? 

We don’t know. But what we do know 
is that Mr. SESSIONS has been appointed 
as Attorney General, who has a 
very long record of opposing comprehensive 
immigration reform, actually 
railing against it; and that is not 
a very good sign. 

After months of just disgraceful campaign 
rhetoric speeches that denigrate 
immigrants, Trump and his team now 
have to really deal with the gravity of 
the situation. I would suggest, to begin 
with, they should acquaint themselves 

with some of the young men and 
women who have been able to go to 
work, go to school, contribute to the 
tax base, contribute to society and our 
culture, like those that Mr. O’ROURKE 
mentioned, because they had that protection 
of DACA. 

Instead of demoralizing and degrading 
them, they should take the time to 
learn about people like Brenda Romero. 
Brenda is a young DREAMer who 
interned in my office this past summer. 
She is one of 12,000 DREAMers in Nevada. 
She is not a rapist and she is not 
a drug dealer. She is a high school 
graduate and the first immigrant to be 
the student body president of a small 
college in my home State. She is now 
pursuing a law degree. 

Brenda was brought to the United 
States from Mexico when she was just 
2 years old. Like so many of the over 
700,000 DREAMers, she didn’t really 
have any choice in that decision. She 
has had a choice about her life, and she 
has made the most of it, like so, so 
many DREAMers, including another 
dreamer from Las Vegas who many of 
you have seen on television, an amazing 
national spokeswoman for this 
campaign for DREAMers, Astrid Silva. 

b 1930 
They have contributed, and they inspire 
me. That is the reason I am joining 
the gentleman here tonight to talk 
about their stories, and they are the 
reason that I will continue to be on the 
front line—to fight to make this country 
a better place for them so they, in 
turn, can make it a better place for all 
of us. 
I want you to go out and meet these 
people. I want you to sit down with 
them eye to eye. I call on all of my colleagues 
to do that. Hear their stories, 
and you will understand just how remarkable 
they are. They will make you 
feel very proud, and you will find that 
you have more in common with them 
and their families than you have apart. 
We are not a country that should alienate 
immigrants. We are a country 
that is characterized by the Statue of 
Liberty: give me your tired, your poor, 
your hungry, those yearning to be free. 
Surely, we can’t forget that kind of 
history and heritage that we have of 
welcoming immigrants with open arms. 
We are not a country that should be 
tearing families apart. As we stand 
here tonight on the floor of the House, 
I would just ask you to make that effort 
to get to know the DREAMers in 
your community. Hear their stories, 
and I think you will agree with me just 
how remarkable they are. 
So I thank the gentleman for letting 
me speak. Count on me to continue 
this fight. I think, if we can’t get comprehensive 
immigration reform done in 
the short term, let’s at least protect 
those DREAMers who already have 
that status so that they don’t have to 
live in fear. 
Mr. O’ROURKE. I thank the gentlewoman 
from Nevada for sharing these 
personal stories of the people in her 

community who inspire her. It is these 
stories of courage that the gentlewoman 
just recounted and that I have 
been trying to share about the young 
DREAMers in my community of El 
Paso that were the impetus for our 
coming together this evening and sharing 
with our colleagues and the people 
of this country the truth about a group 
of very special young people who are 
too often misunderstood, if not outright 
maligned; so I am grateful to the 
gentlewoman for her efforts to improve 
our understanding of this very special 
group of people. 

When I am thinking about these courageous, 
young people whom I have 
been introducing you to tonight from 
the city of El Paso who happen to have 
come to this country, to my city, from 
another country at a very tender age— 
be it 3, be it 5, be it 7 years old—now, 
as they are in their teens and in their 
early twenties, we find them to be 
flourishing and inspiring us. 

I want to share a story that goes 
back a few generations as I introduce 
the next Member who will speak. That 
is the story of Mildred Parish Tutt, 
who in El Paso, Texas, in 1955, after 
having graduated from Douglass High 
School—a segregated, all-Black institution 
in my community of El Paso, 
Texas—had the audacity to apply for 
enrollment at Texas Western College, 
now known as the University of Texas 
at El Paso, and her application was rejected 
solely based on her race. 

Mildred and her friend Thelma White 
and a few other students who were denied 
enrollment teamed up, and, with 
the help of the NAACP and an attorney 
named Thurgood Marshall, they took 
this issue and their aspiration and this 
case to a Federal court. Thanks to the 
wisdom and the judgment of our Federal 
judge at the time, R.E. Thomason, 
not only was it found that Texas Western’s 
ban on African American students 
was unconstitutional, but his 
ruling and their effort and Mildred’s 
courage effectively desegregated the 
institutions of higher learning in the 
State of Texas for every single Texan. 

As I was sharing with some of our 
colleagues yesterday, as I was introducing 
my very good friend BARBARA 
LEE, this took incredible personal sacrifice. 
I can only imagine the difficulty 
that Mildred faced on that day; yet it 
was so incredibly important for this 
country. That is the kind of story that 
we are telling today about these, again, 
courageous, special young people in our 
midst whom we want to continue to 
allow to flourish. 

I want to, at this time, yield to the 
gentlewoman from California, BARBARA 
LEE, who has her roots deeply in the 
State of Texas at El Paso. 

Ms. LEE. I thank the gentleman very 
much. 

First of all, I thank Congressman 
O’ROURKE for lifting up my mother, 
who was a phenomenal woman, who 
passed away last year, and who broke 
many glass ceilings. I want to thank 
the gentleman for recognizing what a 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7109 

true shero she was; so I just had to tell 
you. I want to thank the gentleman 
also for his tireless advocacy on behalf 
of my hometown and the place of my 
birth, El Paso, Texas, on so many 
fronts but especially on behalf of immigrants. 


I grew up in an immigrant community. 
I can tell you my mother, my 
grandfather, my sisters, and my brothers-
in-law—everybody from El Paso— 
consider the gentleman our Representative, 
so I thank him very much. We 
are very proud of him. 

Mr. Speaker, I attended St. Joseph’s 
Elementary School on Waco Avenue, 
and we were taught that we must value 
the dignity of all human beings. I was 
taught by the Sisters of Loretto in El 
Paso. So now, in representing the beautiful 
East Bay of northern California, 
my values and what I learned from my 
mother and my grandfather and my 
parents in El Paso really drive me to 
continue our fight on behalf of our 
young people, on behalf of our DREAMers. 


Four years ago, President Obama 
made history by announcing the Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals 
program, DACA. This critical program 
provides—and this is just commonsense—
humane protections for undocumented 
Americans, mind you, who 
were brought to our Nation as young 
children. Since the executive action, 
about 744,000 young people have benefited 
from this important program. 

I am proud to say, though, that now 
one in three DREAMers in the United 
States is from my State of California. 
These are brilliant young people who 
deserve the chance to live the American 
Dream. DACA empowers young 
people and keeps families together 
even in the face of Republican inaction 
on comprehensive immigration reform. 

This is an issue that is dear to my 
heart. As I said, I grew up in El Paso in 
an immigrant community; so I know 
no option. I mean, we have to protect 
our young people and keep families together. 
More than a quarter of the residents 
now in my congressional district 
were born outside of the United States. 
Tens of thousands of young people have 
benefited from the DACA program. 

We sponsored a town meeting several 
weeks ago. Actually, it was sponsored 
by Oakland Community Organizations, 
which is an affiliate of PICO. It was an 
amazing town meeting. Everyone participated. 
It was multiracial. It was 
held in the Catholic cathedral. There 
are several stories I would like to 
share, just very quickly, that we heard 
that night. 

One DREAMer and DACA recipient— 
let’s call her Amy—was born in Venezuela 
and immigrated to the United 
States as a child. DACA opened doors 
for Amy. She received her bachelor’s 
degree at UCLA and then went on to 
obtain her law degree. This is really 
impressive. Through her hard work, 
Amy became the first DACA recipient 
to be admitted to the California bar. I 
am so proud of Amy. She has taken her 

skills and experiences to give back to 
our community. Today, she works at a 
nonprofit in the East Bay where she is 
an advocate for immigration reform 
and helps other young people benefit 
from the DACA program; but while she 
spends her days helping her community, 
she still lives in fear—in fear for 
her family, in fear for her friends, in 
fear of being deported at any moment. 

I have another constituent—let’s call 
him Gabriel—whom I met recently at 
the same event. Gabriel was born in 
Mexico and immigrated to the United 
States 10 years ago. Since then, he has 
used his voice to empower his community 
and advocate for immigrants. In 
high school, he started a local DREAMers 
club that advocates for the inclusion 
and advancement of undocumented 
students. He went on to attend 
UC Berkeley and was able to receive 
funds to cover most of his studies. 
Through DACA and State policies, he 
was able to afford the high cost of living 
in the Bay Area and receive a 
world-class education. 

He and Amy show the incredible potential 
of our Nation’s young people. 
Their determination to live the American 
Dream, to receive a quality education, 
and to help their communities 
was really unlocked through DACA. It 
is terrible to think of the dreams that 
would be destroyed by rolling back 
DACA now. 

Time and time again, I hear stories 
like Gabriel’s and Amy’s—stories of 
families who are kept together because 
of DACA and of young people who are 
able to attend college and pursue these 
dreams. Now these young people are 
afraid. They fear that their families 
will be torn apart, that their parents 
may be deported, and that their American 
Dreams are truly in jeopardy. 

We have always been a nation of immigrants. 
This is a history that we 
should be proud of; but, right now, we 
know that immigrants in my district, 
in El Paso, and all across our Nation 
are scared to death about what this 
next administration will bring. There 
are families who wake up in fear that, 
come January 21, their work or their 
school will be raided. There are 
DREAMers who dread being forced to 
leave the country—the only country 
that they have ever known. This is 
morally wrong. The nuns who taught 
me at St. Joseph’s would be shocked if 
they knew what was taking place now. 
We are better than this. These young 
people deserve better from our country, 
and they deserve better from this Congress. 


Again, I am calling on my Republican 
colleagues to let us vote on bipartisan 
comprehensive immigration reform—
legislation that will reunify 
families, that will grow our economy, 
and that will provide a clear pathway 
to citizenship. I know the gentleman 
and all of our colleagues are going to 
continue to fight for and to pass immigration 
reform and the DREAM Act; 
but, minimally, we have to protect our 
Nation’s DREAMers, our immigrants, 
and all families. 

I thank the gentleman again for his 
leadership. I thank him for inviting me 
to be with him tonight. Again, my family 
is very proud of him, our Congressman. 


Mr. O’ROURKE. I thank the gentlewoman 
from California, and I thank 
her for continuing to cut the profile in 
courage in Congress and for her fierce 
advocacy on the issues that matter 
most. She continues to stand out as an 
example to me, and tonight is testimony 
to that; so I am grateful to her 
for being here. 

I now want to yield to yet another 
good friend. It is an embarrassment of 
riches, in the Chamber this evening, to 
have so many talented Members who 
have decided to stand up with some of 
the best among us. In my opinion, the 
gentleman from Oregon, who in the 4 
years that I have been here has taught 
me so much and much of that by example, 
is perfectly suited to share his experiences, 
those of the community he 
represents, and what he wants to see 
going forward for this great country. 

I yield to the gentleman from Oregon 
(Mr. BLUMENAUER). 

Mr. BLUMENAUER. I appreciate the 
gentleman’s courtesy in permitting me 
to speak this evening and for his 
thoughtfulness in organizing this conversation 
and inviting others of our 
colleagues to come forward. 

Mr. Speaker, I think it is so important 
to be able to put a human face on 
an issue that sometimes gets lost in 
the rhetoric. We have had a lot of rhetoric 
this last year. The fears that were 
stoked by the campaign with harsh 
words about immigrants, people of different 
religions, people who would be 
at risk of deportation, to maybe having 
a registry, having denial based on people’s 
religions or what their perceived 
religions might be has sent shock 
waves, but it is nothing compared to 
what I have experienced in the days 
immediately after the election. 

People who were apprehensive and 
concerned are terrified—children unsure 
about whether parents will be 
there when they come home from 
school, people who are concerned about 
whether they will be able to have employment. 
It is not just people who 
may not have their documents in 
order. This touches millions of Americans 
who are part of extended families, 
who are part of families in the workplace. 


I was honored to be part of a fundraising 
event 2 weeks ago that was 
hosted by Oregon’s wine industry. We 
came together in a lavish fundraising 
dinner and raised hundreds of thousands 
of dollars for the health care for 
the employees in their vineyards. Now, 
they are not asking about their documentation. 
They understand that there 
may be some who are questionable, but 
they are not seeking in terms of what 
people’s histories are. 

b 1945 

They have people here who have 
worked with them for years who are 


H7110 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

like family and who are connected to 
the community. The notion of sending 
these young people back, who, as you 
and our other colleagues have pointed 
out, came here as children—they didn’t 
have any choice. What 4-year-old, 3-
year-old, 2-year-old infant is making 
this perilous journey on their own? 
They were brought here. They were 
raised here. 

Many of these young people, as you 
have already had testimony this 
evening, have had amazing records of 
success. They took the United States 
Government and its President at his 
word and came forward and took a little 
bit of a risk because they wanted to 
be part of the fabric of this country. 
They are in this situation, sadly, because 
of a failure of will by my Republican 
friends in the House. 

As the gentleman knows, he was here 
when we had an opportunity to vote on 
comprehensive immigration reform 
that passed the Senate on a bipartisan 
basis. It wasn’t a great bill, but it was 
an important step forward, on a bipartisan 
basis, that would have prevented 
some of this confusion, some of this 
pain, and some of this uncertainty. 

If the Republican leadership had allowed 
it to come to the floor for a vote, 
they wouldn’t have had to twist any 
arms. There would have been more 
than enough votes on both sides of the 
aisle to enact it. That failure of courage 
stoked part of this hateful campaign 
that we have all experienced and 
has kept these unfortunate people and 
their families and friends—whether 
they are citizens, employees, they’re 
part of the community—under a cloud. 

This is a failure of the House of Representatives 
that has created this situation. 
We should not, as a country, 
compound it by raising the specter of 
decent, hardworking, young people who 
are here through no act of their own, 
who have taken a step forward, a little 
risk to try and integrate into our society, 
who are high performing. 

I could give examples tonight of a 
young man who is completing his dental 
studies at the Oregon Health & 
Science University, a DREAMer who 
dreams big about serving his community 
as a professional dealing with dental 
health. There is a young woman 
who is a human resource professional 
at the largest school district in our 
State, who isn’t just adding her competence, 
but is being able to provide 
opportunities to deal with some of the 
real serious human resource questions 
from first-line experience. We could all 
do this if we tried. 

Representative O’ROURKE, I deeply 
appreciate your bringing this forward. 
I think it would be a tragedy if we were 
to punish people who took the President 
at his word, who put confidence in 
this Congress, to unwind this unfortunate 
situation. But I think it is important 
that all of us add our voices, that 
we connect with the people at home 
who are desperate, apprehensive, and 
vulnerable, to be able to make sure the 
American public knows what is at 

stake; because if we add our voices, our 
examples, and engage them, there is no 
doubt in my mind that there will be 
enough public pressure to prevent a 
tragedy of immense proportions. 

Mr. O’ROURKE. Mr. Speaker, I am so 
grateful to the gentleman from Oregon 
(Mr. BLUMENAUER) and could not agree 
more forcefully with his words. In addition 
to these, again, inspiring examples 
of what the DREAMers mean to us as a 
country and what they mean to the 
gentleman personally, I also enjoyed 
hearing about how the community he 
represents is rallying around them and 
supporting them and ensuring that 
they know that they are not alone, despite 
the rhetoric, despite the changes 
that we might see in executive actions 
going forward. 

I am also deeply appreciative of the 
gentleman’s reminder that it is this institution 
that really has the opportunity, 
the responsibility, and the 
power to correct this. In these 4 years 
that I have had the pleasure of joining 
you here in the House, I know that 
both of us and dozens of our colleagues 
have tried mightily to do that, but, unfortunately, 
to no avail. That does not 
in any way damper my enthusiasm to 
do this. In fact, these stories that we 
are sharing tonight only cause me to 
want to redouble my efforts and work 
with you and our colleagues to make 
sure that we do everything we can and, 
beyond that, that we are ultimately effective 
and successful in setting this 
country, when it comes to our immigration 
laws and it comes to the lives 
of these 750,000 DREAMers, in the right 
direction. So I thank the gentleman for 
being here this evening. 

One thing that the gentleman from 
Oregon said that really struck home— 
and helps me to introduce a very good 
friend of mine from El Paso, Claudia 
Yoli—were his comments about family 
and the importance of family and how 
fundamental family is to our success. 

So I ask those in the Chamber this 
evening to think about Claudia Yoli, 
who is pictured here, to my right, in 
front of the White House, perhaps in 
2013 when she served as an intern in my 
congressional office here. She came to 
this country for the first time at the 
age of 8, from Venezuela, and has been 
nothing but exceptional to the community 
that she lives in, to the country 
that is now her home, and to those that 
she has worked with, including me and 
my office, and our State Senator Jose 
Rodriguez, for whom she works today. 
She showed courage in coming to our 
townhall on Monday evening, where 
she told us about all of this and then 
shared something that was so personally 
painful and tragic that it could 
only help me to understand truly what 
is at stake here. 

In 2010, Claudia’s mother traveled 
back to Venezuela. Because of 
Claudia’s status, because she was a 
DREAMer and because of provisions 
within the Deferred Action for Childhood 
Arrivals, she was not able to go 
back to Venezuela with her mother. 

Unfortunately, last year, Claudia’s 
mother passed away in Venezuela, and 
Claudia could not be there to comfort 
her mother in her dying days, nor 
could she be there for the funeral, nor 
could she be there with those family 
members who came together to grieve 
her mother’s passing. Our inaction 
causes tremendous pain and suffering 
for those whom we have the power to 
help right now. 

I yield at this point to the gentleman 
from Illinois (Mr. FOSTER), another colleague 
with whom I was elected in 2012. 

Mr. FOSTER. Mr. Speaker, I am Congressman 
BILL FOSTER, and I am proud 
to represent the 11th District of Illinois. 


In our district, we have vibrant immigrant 
communities from all over the 
world. I have met many DREAMers, 
both at home in Illinois and right here 
in the Halls of Congress. For many of 
them, the United States is the only 
country that they have ever called 
home. 

Our district includes the diverse cities 
of Aurora, Bolingbrook, Joliet, and 
others. In Aurora, the East Aurora 
High School District 131 has one of the 
largest Naval Junior ROTCs in the 
world. Many of these young ROTC students 
come from immigrant families, 
and they dream one day of serving our 
country in the Armed Forces. You can 
see it in their faces during flag ceremonies, 
parades, and you can see the 
admiration of the younger children 
looking up to these ROTC DREAMers. 
Many of them are here because their 
parents dreamed of a better life for 
their children. 

The DACA program has been incredibly 
successful. Over half a million 
young people are currently enrolled in 
it. They are living examples of the 
American Dream, the idea that anyone 
could come here and have a fulfilling 
and prosperous life regardless of where 
you come from and where you live. 

Instead of creating new opportunities 
for these great young people, Republicans 
in Congress have repeatedly 
voted to end the DACA program. We 
need to reform our outdated immigration 
laws and not double down on a 
broken system. As their Representatives, 
we should honor their patriotism 
and dedication to our country with 
support, not fear and degradation. It is 
a pretty simple proposition. 

Mr. O’ROURKE. Mr. Speaker, I thank 
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. FOSTER) 
for being here this evening, for 
standing up for some who, especially 
right now, feel that perhaps their government 
is not with them and perhaps 
these commitments that were made to 
them that engendered their trust, their 
willingness to come forward to share 
their personal information, their addresses, 
their identities, perhaps have 
been abandoned. Your presence here tonight, 
your words, I think, do much to 
show them that that is not the case 
and that there is still a chance in this 
country that we will do the right thing. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7111 

I appreciate the gentleman from Illinois 
(Mr. FOSTER) for being here tonight. 


Mr. Speaker, in closing, let me say 
that, whether it is these 750,000-plus 
DREAMers, these young Americans 
who, at a very tender age, were brought 
to this country by their parents or relatives 
and in every single way, except 
for citizenship, are no different than 
my three children or anyone else that 
I represent in the great City of El Paso, 
Texas—these DREAMers are going to 
high school, are serving in our Armed 
Forces, are attending our universities, 
are, in many respects, the future of our 
communities, of our country, who have 
so much to gain personally and so 
much to give back to this country. 
These DREAMers must be spared from 
any decisions that would break the 
trust that was created with them, that 
would force them back to their countries 
of origin, which they no longer 
know as home, whose language they no 
longer speak, where they no longer 
have family with whom they can reside. 


Mr. Speaker, I think it is also important, 
on the larger subject of how we 
talk about those who are in our country 
from another country, that we remember 
a few facts. For example, the 
border that connects us with our country 
and neighbor to the south, Mexico, 
is as safe today as it has ever been. The 
community that I have the honor to 
represent and to serve, El Paso, Texas, 
which is conjoined with Ciudad Juarez 
to form the largest binational community 
anywhere in the world, is the 
safest city in the United States. It is 
safe not in spite of, but precisely because 
of, our connection to Mexico, the 
Mexican immigrants, the Mexican 
Americans, and those who are in our 
community, documented or otherwise, 
that make El Paso such a tremendously 
safe, wonderful, thriving community. 


We know that U.S. cities on the border 
with Mexico and U.S. cities with 
large immigrant populations are, in 
fact, far safer than the average U.S. 
city in the interior, be that in Kentucky, 
be that in Iowa. That is what we 
have to be proud of. That is what we 
need to share with the American public. 


We also need them to know that immigrants, 
documented or otherwise— 
and including, especially, those who 
are undocumented—commit crimes, including 
violent crimes, at a far lower 
rate than do native-born U.S. citizens. 

We need to remember that we have so 
much to be proud of, so much to be 
grateful for, so much to celebrate in 
the immigrants’ story, especially these 
DREAMers who, right now, live in a period 
of uncertainty, fear, and anxiety. 
It is incumbent upon us in this Chamber 
to do what we must to change our 
laws to reflect our values and the reality 
in our communities and in our 
country. Mr. Speaker, I stand ready to 
work with any Member on either side 
of the aisle to do just that. 

I want to thank my colleagues who 
joined me tonight to help drive home 
the very important point that everyone 
who is in our country that has registered 
with the government, that has 
come forward, that has applied successfully 
under the DACA program deserves 
to stay here and deserves our 
help to ensure our laws allow them to 
do that going forward. 

I yield back the balance of my time. 

Mr. VEASEY. Mr. Speaker, thank you to my 
colleague Mr. O’ROURKE for his work to highlight 
such an important issue. 

Since November 9th, many of the immigrants 
in my district of Dallas-Fort Worth have 
been rightfully nervous about their future in the 
United States. 

It is no secret where the President-Elect 
stands on immigration. 

He has vowed to repeal the highly successful 
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, 
commonly known as DACA. 

This move is wrong for America and for the 
immigrants whose lives have been forever 
changed by the program. 

Since 2012, over 135,000 bright young Texans 
have successfully applied for the program. 

It has been life changing for all those who 
qualified. 

This has been especially true for one of my 
constituents, Erik. 

Erik is a 27-year-old DACA recipient who 
immigrated to the United States from Mexico 
with his mother when he was just two years 
old. 

Erik was unaware of his immigration status 
for the majority of his life until he reached a 
critical milestone at the age of 16. 

When he asked his mother if he could apply 
for his driver’s license, what normally would be 
an exciting event turned into a difficult conversation 
with his mother about his immigration 
status. 

Erik was devastated because although he 
called the United States home, he would be 
unable to move forward with his life as he 
planned. 

Once he graduated from high school, Erik 
knew that attending college would be a significant 
challenge—one he almost didn’t take on. 

He shared that he wasn’t even sure college 
was the right decision because he was unsure 
that he could get a job after he graduated. 

Yet, he persevered and graduated in 
2011—but once again was confronted with the 
reality that his undocumented status created 
additional challenges. 

Although he was college educated, Erik 
couldn’t legally work in the United States. 

But with the announcement of DACA in 
2012, Erik had a ray of hope. 

Finally, Erik could legally work and better 
participate in the country he’s called home 
since the age of two. 

Since successfully receiving DACA status, 
Erik has worked as a Store Systems Engineer 
at Rent-A-Car and has advocated for other undocumented 
immigrants. 

Unfortunately, the newly found freedom Erik 
enjoyed under DACA is now in jeopardy. 

Now, with just weeks away until the President-
Elect is sworn into office, millions of 
DREAMERs are frightened they will be forced 
to return to the shadows or be targeted for deportation. 


These young aspiring immigrants are already 
part of our communities. 

They attend our schools, work alongside us, 
and live in our neighborhoods. 

For Erik and the thousands of other 
DREAMERs across Texas, the revocation of 
DACA could mean returning to countries they 
haven’t called home since they were children. 

While we work to reform our broken immigration 
system, we must remember that the 
immigrants we speak of are just like us—they 
have hopes, dreams, and want to live a good 
life. 

Like Erik, I believe that we need to move 
forward with immigration reform. 

I believe we can do so in a way that keeps 
families together and benefits our country as a 
whole at the same time. 

I stand here alongside my colleagues to remind 
our country’s DREAMers that the fight 
isn’t over. 

Our fight here in Congress has just begun. 

f 

PROTESTS OF THE DAKOTA 
ACCESS PIPELINE 

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. 
DONOVAN). Under the Speaker’s announced 
policy of January 6, 2015, the 
Chair recognizes the gentleman from 
North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) for 30 minutes. 


Mr. CRAMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
this evening to talk about the rule of 
law, the importance of enforcement of 
the rule of law, the importance of a 
government that stands for law and 
order. 

I ask your indulgence, Mr. Speaker, 
as I begin my comments tonight by 
reading a resolution of support, a resolution 
that illustrates the position of a 
very important organization in my 
State of North Dakota, the North Dakota 
Veterans Coordinating Council. 

b 2000 

It reads like this: 

Whereas: The protests against the Dakota 
Access Pipeline have been going on for over 
100 days in North Dakota. 

Whereas: The protests have been conducted 
on public and private land without proper 
permission. 

Whereas: The protests have not remained 
peaceful. In fact, the protesters have caused 
millions of dollars in damage. They have destroyed 
public and privately owned property, 
vehicles, and equipment to include heavy 
equipment and trucks owned by private contractors, 
at least two government trucks, 
cut privately owned fences, and slaughtered 
farm animals owned by private farms. Protesters 
have assaulted and thrown Molotov 
cocktails and hard objects at North Dakota 
law enforcement officers and military personnel 
who are sworn to keep the peace and 
protect North Dakota’s citizens. 

Whereas: Protesters have desecrated North 
Dakota State and Federal property, to include 
the North Dakota State Capitol and, 
yes, the North Dakota pillar of the World 
War II Monument right here in Washington, 
D.C., located at The National Mall. 

Whereas: The protesters of the Dakota Access 
Pipeline in and around Standing Rock 
have desecrated the American flag by flying 
it upside down, sewing emblems over the 
flag, and displaying emblems and non-U.S. 
flags in a dominant manner to the U.S. flag 
in violation of North Dakota Century Code. 

Whereas: 95 percent of the protesters are 
not North Dakota citizens or Native Americans. 
Many are professional paid protesters 


H7112 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

unaware of the true understanding of the 
issues at hand. 

Whereas: As former military members, we 
have all taken an oath to defend the Constitution 
of the United States against foreign 
and domestic enemies, the American 
flag, and our freedom. As veterans, we continue 
to support our military, law enforcement, 
and all of our constitutional rights we 
have fought for. 

Whereas: As veterans of the U.S. military, 
we have fought for and maintained the rights 
of our citizens to peacefully protest. The protests 
in Standing Rock have not been peaceful 
and, therefore, violate the rights of those 
living peacefully around the protest site and 
threaten the sanctity and sustainability of 
our basic freedom of peaceful protests by 
crossing the line into unlawful activities. 

Whereas: Individual veterans and veteran 
groups from outside of the State of North 
Dakota have reached out to North Dakota 
veterans and veterans service organizations 
for support in their plan to recruit veterans 
to assemble in North Dakota in support of 
the Standing Rock protest against the Dakota 
Access Pipeline. 

Whereas: Veterans standing in a nonpeaceful 
protest against the Dakota Access Pipeline, 
will also be standing against North Dakota 
law enforcement, military, private and 
government entities, reflects poorly upon 
themselves, our veterans organizations, veterans 
as a whole, the State of North Dakota, 
and our country. 

Therefore: Let it be the position of the 
North Dakota Veterans Coordinating Council 
made up of the North Dakota AMVETS, 
American Legion, Disabled American Veterans, 
Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the 
Vietnam Veterans of America adamantly oppose 
and condemn any veteran organization 
or persons representing themselves as U.S. 
military veterans who associate or involve 
themselves with the illegal activities which 
have occurred or take part in any unlawful 
or unbecoming conduct or assembly in protest 
to the Dakota Access Pipeline in North 
Dakota. 

Mr. Speaker, I could never say it better 
than the men and women who have 
fought and who have been willing to 
die for our liberties. They have said it 
perfectly in this position in support of 
a legally permitted pipeline and in support 
of our law enforcement officers 
who have exercised tremendous restraint 
against violence thrown at 
them. I, for one, am tired, as are the 
vast majority of North Dakotans, of 
people from outside of our State with a 
political agenda who have co-opted the 
reasonable, peaceful protests that once 
began what has become a full-fledged 
riot. 

Mr. Speaker, for more than 3 months, 
thousands of rioters disguising themselves 
as prayerful people, peaceful 
protesters, have illegally camped on 
Federal land owned or at least managed 
by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 
owned by the taxpayers of this 
country. They have illegally camped on 
the shores of the Missouri River. 

By the way, Mr. Speaker, if you and 
I decided to go for a walk on that same 
land and picked up a rock and threw it 
in the river, we would be fined by this 
government. But, oh, no, not antifossil 
fuel rioters. No, they are enabled; no, 
they are encouraged by our Federal 
Government, at least this current Administration. 


Celebrities, bad actors; celebrities, 
political activists; and anti-oil extremists 
are blocking this pipeline’s 
progress, and they are doing so based 
not on good information, not on the 
law, but rather on a leftwing political 
agenda. Oh, by the way, these celebrities 
and these rioters fly in on jet airplanes 
that are fueled by jet fuel that 
is refined from oil, in many cases 
Bakken oil; but let’s ignore the irony 
and the hypocrisy for the moment. 

North Dakotans like these veterans 
that I just read about have respected 
the rights of peaceful protesters, but 
this has gone way beyond that. It has 
become rioting, plain and simple. In 
fact, I think it is important to note, 
Mr. Speaker, that two Federal courts 
right here in the District of Columbia 
have upheld the legality of this pipeline. 
First, a D.C. Circuit district judge 
appointed by President Obama, I might 
add, denied a request for an injunction 
to stop this pipeline based on the fact 
that not only has the company and the 
Corps of Engineers and the North Dakota 
Public Service Commission met 
every letter of the law, but exceeded it, 
including, according to this judge’s 
own opinion, exceeding the requirements 
for consultation with the sovereign 
tribes. The project developer 
and the Army Corps tried desperately 
to engage the Standing Rock Sioux 
tribe dozens of times, only to be rejected 
for more than 2 years. 

Mr. Speaker, all that remains for the 
pipeline to be finished is an easement 
to begin the process and to finish the 
process of connecting this pipeline 
under the Missouri River in North Dakota, 
an easement that has been prepared 
and finished for months. Of 
course, the Obama administration rescinded 
a permit that had already been 
issued, a 408 permit to allow the pipeline 
to be built under this river. The 
same administration, by the way, who 
has gone to court to defend it. It is 
ironic, to say the least. It is chaos, to 
say the best. 

At the center of this issue is an administration 
that refuses—not just refuses 
to follow the rule of law, but enables 
and encourages the breaking of 
the law, beginning with the fact that 
thousands of illegal protesters are allowed 
to camp, to trespass on federally 
owned land. 

Now, if you allow somebody to illegally 
assemble, why would they not 
think that they should be allowed to 
burn property? Why would they not 
think they should be allowed to trespass 
on private land? Why would they 
think they shouldn’t be allowed to 
throw Molotov cocktails at police officers 
trying to protect innocent citizens? 
Why would they not think they 
could follow a police officer home and 
harass his family until they had to 
move out of their home, or follow a National 
Guard member to their apartment 
and then harass them at their 
apartment and force their family to 
leave, to spit on them? Why would they 
think they shouldn’t be allowed to do 

that if the President of the United 
States says go ahead and trespass? 

Never mind that this is a legally permitted 
pipeline. Let’s just ignore that. 
Let’s withdraw the permit that we 
have already issued, that we are defending 
in court. Why wouldn’t they 
think that? 

What has happened, Mr. Speaker, to 
virtue in this country? 

When I see these protesters, rioters, 
criminals, thugs—yes, thugs; it is not a 
racial comment; it is just what you 
call people who are thugs—I look at 
them and I think, who is their mother? 
Where were they raised? How were they 
raised? 

What has happened in this country 
when we stand here in this Chamber, in 
this assembly, in this town, and we 
hear some people, politicians, supposed 
leaders, talk about law enforcement as 
though they are the problem? What has 
happened that people have become confused 
about the difference between 
breaking the law and enforcing the 
law? 

It is hard for North Dakotans to see 
that because we are not confused by 
that. We were raised by parents who 
told us what was right and what was 
wrong, who taught us to respect the 
legal system, to respect law enforcement 
officers. We have really respectable 
police officers in North Dakota, 
and we do throughout this country, because 
we have seen them come from 
multiple States. The National Sheriffs’ 
Association has sent many officers. 
Other States and city police departments 
and counties have sent law enforcement 
officers to give some assistance 
to our overworked, overtaxed law 
enforcement officers right in North Dakota. 
We are tired of it. 

Stay home, Jane Fonda; don’t come 
back and deliver food, pretend that 
somehow you care and take off again in 
your private jet; unless you want to try 
to fly that jet on solar panels, then 
come on, we will take you. 

You can’t encourage illegal behavior 
and then wonder why there is violence, 
Mr. Speaker; and that is what our 
President has done. 

Let’s give a little background on 
this. I know a little bit about siting 
pipelines. I was a regulator for nearly 
10 years. I have sited several of them. 
This 1,172-mile Dakota Access Pipeline 
will deliver as many as 570,000 barrels 
of Bakken crude oil every day to Patoka, 
Illinois, and then to other markets 
beyond. This is 570,000 barrels of oil 
that is currently being produced every 
single day. It is being transported now. 
It will always find its way to market. 
It is just that it is being transported by 
trains and trucks. Oh, those aren’t as 
safe or as efficient or even as environmentally 
friendly ways to move oil as 
a safe pipeline is, especially one that is 
going to be buried 100 feet below the 
bottom of the river, to make sure that 
the water is safe. 

From the outset of this process, the 
Standing Rock Sioux leaders have refused 
to sit down and meet with either 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7113 

the Corps of Engineers or the pipeline 
developer. However, 55 other tribes 
have. The Corps consulted with 55 Native 
American tribes at least 389 times, 
after which they proposed 140 variations 
of the current route to avoid 
culturally sensitive areas in North Dakota 
alone. 

That is right, Mr. Speaker, you are 
not going to read about that in the 
New York Times or the Washington 
Post. You are never going to hear 
about it on NBC or ABC or CBS. You 
may not even hear about it in North 
Dakota because, frankly, even our 
media are afraid of the ramifications of 
violent rioters who are willing to commit 
violent acts if you cross them. Yes, 
even my home address has been posted 
on their Web sites and on their 
Facebook pages so that they know 
where my family and I live. These are 
the prayerful, peaceful protesters you 
hear so much about on the NBC News. 

This project route was examined, reviewed, 
studied, and ultimately supported 
by the North Dakota Public 
Service Commission, the State Historic 
Preservation Office, assorted tribal 
consultants from around the country, 
and multiple professional independent 
archaeologists. This is a thoroughly 
vetted pipeline, which is why it has 
over 200 Federal permits, all of which 
have been delivered and have been 
built, except for this one, which was rescinded 
to make a political statement. 

They say that they object to the 
pipeline being close to the water intake 
of the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation. 
However, it shouldn’t be of 
any concern. As I said, this is going to 
go between 90 and 115 feet below the 
floor of the river. It is double-lined 
pipe. It has got control valves at both 
ends and sensors at both ends. It is the 
safest pipeline in the world. 

By the way, the intake for Standing 
Rock’s drinking water, the new one, 
which will be in service before the end 
of this year, is 70 miles away. There is 
a railroad track that carries hundreds 
of thousands of barrels every day over 
the top of the Missouri, as close as 
that. 

By the way, the other thing you 
often hear is that this was not the 
original route, that there were other 
preferred routes, but because they 
crossed at places that affected a different 
kind of people than the Standing 
Rock Sioux tribe, that this was somehow 
discriminatory. 

Let me set that record straight as 
well. I know, as I said, a fair bit about 
pipelines. I have read the permit. I 
have read the application. I have read 
the judge’s opinions. It was always 
planned for this location for a very 
good reason, Mr. Speaker. By the way, 
there are at least 10 to 12 other petroleum 
pipelines north of this same location. 
This is just going to be the latest 
and greatest of them. The main reason 
this route was chosen was because it 
was the least intrusive on the environment, 
on waterways, on private property, 
and on cultural resources. 

b 2015 

The other locations that were under 
consideration that were not chosen 
crossed many more bodies of water and 
were much closer to many wells and 
cultural resources and very important 
historical resources. It was 48 extra 
miles of previously undisturbed field 
areas. This is and was the best route 
because it is an existing corridor. In 
this same corridor, there is already a 
natural gas pipeline. There is already a 
large electric transmission line. That 
is why it was chosen. 

Let me talk a little bit about the impact 
this is having on my State. We 
had the recent vandalism of the graves 
in Bismark. That is right. They vandalized 
graves in a Bismark cemetery. Of 
course, the unconscionable graffiti 
markings on the North Dakota World 
War II pillar that the veterans wrote 
about earlier are examples of how these 
peaceful protestors’ actions don’t 
match their claims. 

The responsibility of protecting property 
and residents has fallen on the 
shoulders of the State of North Dakota 
because, guess what, when we asked 
the Obama administration for law enforcement 
help, for reimbursement, at 
least, for our State and for our counties 
for a situation that they created 
by their refusal to obey the law themselves, 
they sent some PR people from 
the Department of Justice. They sent 
people to watch our cops to make sure 
they don’t do something wrong. See, 
again, they are confused about the difference 
between breaking the law and 
enforcing the law. We are not confused 
about that in North Dakota. 

Attempts to get reimbursement or to 
get U.S. Federal help have fallen on 
deaf ears. So far, North Dakota has had 
to borrow $17 million to cover law enforcement 
costs. I will tell you this— 
and we have heard in the Chamber a lot 
of bad-mouthing of the incoming administration—
I can’t wait. I can’t wait 
to go to Attorney General JEFF SESSIONS 
and explain the situation to him 
and ask him for assistance. I am very 
encouraged by President-elect Trump’s 
favorable comments about the Dakota 
Access Pipeline earlier today. 

These protesters, these demonstrators, 
these rioters have brought protests 
into the communities of Bismark 
and Mandan. They blocked roads and 
traffic, forcing lock-downs at the State 
capital and Federal buildings. They 
have forced people to leave their 
homes. They forced daycare centers to 
close. This daycare was forced into 
lockdown twice. Can you imagine explaining 
to children, who don’t know 
anything about a pipeline and they 
don’t care—and they shouldn’t have 
to—why they are in a lockdown, why 
they have to be careful. Some out-of-
State thugs are circling the block, 
harassing the owners. 

Many of our residents are fearful for 
the safety of their neighborhoods and 
volunteers are hesitant even to deliver 
Meals on Wheels. We have had people 
call us and say they can’t deliver Meals 

on Wheels because people won’t even 
answer their doors because they have 
seen these rioters walking around their 
property. 

Law enforcement and their families 
have been stopped and rioters have repeatedly 
tried to intimidate them. On 
Thanksgiving Day, 300 protesters 
blocked traffic in Mandan, North Dakota, 
carrying a large dead pig on a 
stick while at least as many protesters, 
again, trespassed and built a bridge to 
reach a hilltop on private property. 

Law enforcement has shown tremendous 
constraint, giving verbal warnings 
that if they stop making the bridge, 
there would not be any arrests. It was 
ignored. The bridge was built. Rioters 
crossed, dismantled the bridge, and law 
enforcement held the line for hours 
against tremendous numbers—they 
were well outnumbered—without a single 
arrest. 

The protesters are the clear agitators 
and the criminals here, not the police 
officers. There would be no law enforcement 
presence if these protests were 
truly peaceful. 

For example, most media have demonized 
their law enforcement for use 
of water as a less than lethal tool during 
a protest in cold temperatures. 
They used it to hold back protestors 
only after they used the water to put 
out prairie fires that were started by 
the protesters. And the protestors got 
wet from a water cannon. By the way, 
that is a made-up term by the national 
media to make it sound like some sort 
of violent act by our police department. 
It was a water hose brought 
there to put out fires. And when they 
used that to push back hundreds of protesters 
when there were only dozens of 
police officers, now they are blamed for 
being the agitators. 

As you can tell, I am frustrated, Mr. 
Speaker. I am frustrated not just by 
the actions of these thugs, because we 
have come to expect that from certain 
people in this country, unfortunately. I 
am frustrated by this administration’s 
refusal to obey the law, to enforce the 
law, to support the law, but instead enable 
and actually encourage the breaking 
of the law. That is not what we 
elect the President for. I am so grateful 
we have a law-and-order President 
coming into office shortly. 

They have been forced to arrest more 
than 400 people, most of them from out 
of State. They get bailed out rather 
quickly. Somehow they have a source 
of lots of money readily available to 
bail people out and cover their expenses. 
They have chained themselves 
to equipment to prevent work from 
being done. 

Here is an interesting fact. When it 
was much warmer in North Dakota 
than it is today, they would chain 
themselves to the equipment. And 
then, after hours of being there, they 
would get thirsty. And police officers, 
rather than just letting them stay 
there, actually helped provide them 
water and held the water so that the 
protesters, the illegal rioters, could get 


H7114 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

a drink of water. That is the quality of 
our law enforcement officers. 

They burned tires and fields, as I said 
earlier. They damaged cars and 
bridges. They harassed residents and 
have torn down fences. They killed and 
slaughtered neighbors’ cattle and bison 
and horses. There was at least one report 
where gunshots were fired at the 
police. 

By the way, this protest is not about 
climate. We hear about that. By the 
way, it shouldn’t have anything to do 
with climate. The oil is being produced. 
Now the issue is: How do you transport 
it? Do you transport it in the most environmentally 
and economical and efficient 
way in a pipeline? Or, do you 
transport it in some less safe, less efficient, 
less environmentally friendly 
way? 

The simple fact is, our Nation will 
continue to produce and consume oil, 
and pipelines are the best way to move 
that oil. Legally permitting infrastructure 
projects have to be allowed to proceed 
without the threat of improper 
governmental meddling and activity. 

By the way, what of shovel-ready 
jobs, Mr. Speaker? What of that? What 
of building the infrastructure of this 
country with private sector money? 
What a great thing. But for the Bakken 
and other shale oil plays in this country 
in the last 8 years, we still would be 
in a recession. Most of the jobs that 
have been created in the last 8 years in 
this country have been created in the 
energy sector. 

It is not about water protection, as I 
said. There is a brand new intake system 
being built. It will be operational 
73 miles from this pipeline. That is not 
the issue. That is just an excuse. By 
the way, that new intake is about 1.6 
miles downstream of a railroad track, a 
railroad bridge that will carry crude 
oil, as well. 

The pipeline is not going to come in 
contact with the water. It employs the 
latest and greatest in advanced technology. 
As I said, a dozen or more oil 
and gas and refined product pipelines 
already cross the Missouri River upstream 
from the tribe’s drinking water 
intake, and this pipeline is crossing at 
a point where there is existing infrastructure. 
It is an infrastructure corridor. 


Mr. Speaker, the rule of law matters. 
I am so grateful for our law enforcement 
officers, as I said, not just in 
Morton County, not just around 
Bismark, Mandan, and not just in 
North Dakota, but from around the 
country who have come to the assistance 
of our State. But, Mr. Speaker, if 
we think we are going to rebuild the 
infrastructure of this country, and 
every time we build a railroad track or 
a highway or a bridge or a pipeline or 
a transmission line or wind farm or 
factory, we are going to have to put up 
with this, what kind of investment is 
going to take place in this country? 

As I said, we are not confused in 
North Dakota about the difference between 
breaking the law and enforcing 

the law. The vast majority of North 
Dakotans—and when I say vast, well 
into 90 percent—support law enforcement. 
We are grateful for what they do. 
We are sorry that you are going 
through this. 

I will fight with everything I have 
and use every ounce of influence I have 
over the next administration and with 
my colleagues in this Chamber to provide 
the resources to make sure that 
you get a day off, to make sure that 
our State gets reimbursed, and that 
your families are compensated for what 
you have gone through. 

I thank law enforcement officers for 
taking and making the tremendous 
sacrifice they make to protect legal 
commerce, peaceful citizens, and yes, 
ironically, Mr. Speaker, I thank the 
law enforcement officers for protecting 
the right to express ourselves in a 
peaceful manner. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

f 

EVENTS IN CUBA 
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under 
the Speaker’s announced policy of January 
6, 2015, the Chair recognizes the 
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. KING) for 30 
minutes. 
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, it is 
my honor and privilege to be recognized 
to address the floor of the United 
States House of Representatives. It was 
quite interesting to listen to the gentleman 
from North Dakota and the 
stress that they have up there; in particular, 
with regard to the pipeline 
being built through there. 
I would just want to reinforce the 
statements made by the gentleman 
from North Dakota and point out that 
the permits are there, the process is 
there. We have tens of thousands of 
miles of pipelines in the United States 
of America, and we have very, very few 
problems with leaks or other circumstances 
that would cause one to 
think that there is a safer way to 
transport oil. There is not. The safest 
way is with the pipeline. 
I am one who has actually started 
out in the construction business building 
pipelines. We have been in the construction 
business for 42 years. We dig 
in the ground, and we are doing underground 
utility work every day, except 
for Sundays, and we go deep sometimes. 
We go into hydraulic soil from 
time to time. Water tables are above 
where we are working. We do well 
points. We are working with the flow of 
water in the soil and underground, and 
we have got as good a look at this as 
anybody I know. 
I would point out to those that are 
detractors that say: well, we can pollute 
the underground aquifer if we have 
a pipeline that we build and if that 
pipeline should leak. And I would point 
out something that they ought to know 
if they ever saw a movie of a shipwreck: 
oil floats on water. Therefore, it 
cannot penetrate down into the aquifer. 
You are not pumping off of the top-

skimmed surface of the aquifer. You 
are pumping down below. And if you 
should get a leak, which is extraordinarily 
rare, the oil pools and floats 
on the top and can be pumped off. 

There is no safer way to transfer petroleum 
products and no more efficient 
way. It is by far the best way, which is 
why we have tens of thousands of pipelines 
all over this country moving all 
kinds of product, including crude oil, 
but also anhydrous ammonia and a 
number of other products across the 
country. 

I have built the pipelines. I have been 
down in the trench. I have been tossed 
into the air and slammed to the ground 
and climbed down the machine. The 
wind, the dust, the noise, the heat, the 
cold, has all been around me. What I 
don’t understand is why anybody would 
take people seriously that think that 
oil doesn’t float on water, or that there 
is a better way to transport oil, or that 
somehow if they just get organized and 
people fund them, we are going to pay 
attention to them as if they were logical. 
They are not. 

So that concludes my statement on 
the oil pipeline. I am hopeful, though, 
that in the upcoming Trump administration 
the future Secretary of State 
signs that permit that opens up that 
they need one section of pipe to go 
across the 49th parallel, Mr. Speaker, 
in order to facilitate the Keystone XL 
pipeline. We can build that pipeline 
down to the Canadian border from the 
north, and we can build the pipeline up 
to the Canadian border from the south. 
But what has always been short on the 
Obama administration is a Hillary 
Clinton or a John Kerry signature on 
the document that says: we have an 
agreement with Canada to connect 
these pipelines together at our border. 
That is one section of pipe that would 
need to go in there. 

I believe that happens under the 
Trump administration. And we should 
set aside these ridiculous arguments 
earlier rather than later. But America 
looks ridiculous in the world if we are 
going to argue against that very logic 
that, if petroleum needs to move and 
we are going to use it to move product 
around America and heat our homes 
and generate electricity and all the 
things that we do, then we need to do 
it as effectively and efficiently as possibly 
or we will become noncompetitive 
for the rest of the country. 

b 2030 
So, Mr. Speaker, I emphasize the 
points made by the gentleman from 
North Dakota, and I urge that the 
Corps of Engineers accelerate the operation 
up there, and they can commence 
to finish their work that goes across 
what is the reservoir and river, the 
Missouri River, get that connected and 
get it done. This demonstration isn’t 
going to be over till you get done, so 
bore on through would be my advice. 

THE DEATH OF FIDEL CASTRO 

Mr. KING of Iowa. I made myself a 
promise yesterday, Mr. Speaker, when 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7115 

I stopped in to ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN’s 
office to congratulate her; and I would 
do that with many of the people who 
are related to, from, or descended from 
folks who had to leave Cuba, especially 
those who are there today who weren’t 
able to leave Cuba. 

We have been looking for the biological 
solution, which would be Castro 
being transferred into the next life. 
The very definition of the biological 
solution in the vernacular around this 
town was the eventual death of Fidel 
Castro. 

Well, it happened, finally happened, 
Mr. Speaker, and so I had a celebratory 
cup of Cuban coffee in the office of 
ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN. And now I would 
make this call, that it is time for the 
Cuban people and it is time for the incoming 
Trump administration to put 
together what amounts to the need for 
a regime change on the island of Cuba 
for the 11 million people that are free-
spirited, hardworking, happy people, 
given all the circumstances that they 
have to fight against in the poorest 
country in all of the Western Hemisphere 
as far as their spirit is concerned. 


I would pass the message along. 
There is a wonderful, wonderful nun in 
my district named Sister Marie. She 
served under Mother Teresa for 27 
years. She served in Cuba for a long, 
long time, but she has been to all the— 
well, maybe not all, but many of the 
worst places in the world to serve the 
Lord and to help people. 

She used to sneak into Cuba with 
seeds sewn in her clothing, into the 
seams of her clothing, so that she could 
plant a garden, and that garden then 
could grow and prosper and help feed 
the Cuban people that were living off of 
their monthly supply of the ration of 
rice, beans, and sugar. 

She told me that, of all the places 
she has been, Cuba is the poorest 
place—$20 a month for income, but the 
poorest place because of their spirit. 
The spirit of their Christian faith has 
been so suppressed by Castro, who has 
closed so many of the churches, the cathedrals. 
I walked into a cathedral 
down in Cuba, and you could see that 
where the pews were, that there was 
dust there and there weren’t tracks by 
the pews. 

But the line down through the center 
aisle was all polished from people 
walking down through the center aisle. 
And when you look at that, you realize 
the reason that there is dust out in the 
pews and there is not a path of people’s 
feet moving back and forth down 
through the seats and the pews of this 
cathedral in Cuba is because that 
church does not function any longer as 
a church; it is functioning as a museum. 


Castro shut down many, many of the 
religious institutions throughout Cuba 
and did his best to suppress Christian 
faith on that island. Occasionally, a 
little chapel pops up here and there, 
and you can see, if you are looking 
closely, you will see a little bit of it. 

But he has been an aggressive opponent 
to our Christian faith, which is the 
foundation of the faith in Cuba. 

So I am not sorry to see the end of 
the life of Fidel Castro. And I have 
made a pact with some of my Cuban 
friends that one day we will return to 
Cuba and we will swim ashore at the 
Bay of Pigs. And that would be the ultimate 
symbolic act that, when the day 
comes, that it is possible for, let’s say, 
Cuban exiles to come towards the 
shore. 

I will say, I would want to dive out of 
that boat and swim ashore and wade 
out onto a free Cuba. That is our pact. 
That is our mission. I am going to do 
my best to stay in shape to be able to 
accomplish that mission. 

Here are some things that I saw in 
my trip down to Cuba, Mr. Speaker, 
and I think it is important that the 
body here pay attention to some of 
this. 

I hear a lot of stories about how good 
the health care system is, about how 
good the educational system is. Well, 
we went to visit some of the educational 
system, Mr. Speaker, and one 
of them was a country school. They 
had, oh, I don’t know, 15 or 18 kids sitting 
at desks in this little shack out in 
the country with the teacher up front 
looking like this was a country school 
from 150 years ago in my home State of 
Iowa. 

There, when we walked in, of course, 
everything stopped and the kids all 
paid attention. They didn’t get to see 
Americans very often. I suppose we 
look a little bit different, on balance, 
than they do and their parents do. 

But we had a pretty good handful of 
pencils there, and that handful of pencils 
was swept up immediately. They 
couldn’t wait to get their hands on 
pencils so that they could write. That 
is one of the examples of the shortage 
of supplies that are there. 

The educational system, also, we 
took a ride up to the top of the mountains 
about 70 kilometers from Santa 
Clara in Cuba. There is an extension 
college up there that teaches agriculture. 
This was a ride up there that 
took, oh, at least 90 minutes to get up 
the mountain. We were sitting in the 
back of a Russian deuce and a half that 
gave us a ride up the mountain. 

When we got there to this little campus 
built into the mountains, we had 
the equivalent of—we had about 40 people 
on this tour altogether. And as we 
were standing there, they brought 
out—the Cuban minders brought out 
the spokesmen for the university, and 
they stood there in their gray smocks, 
and the Cuban minders began transferring 
our questions to them. 

So I was asking questions of the faculty 
at the extension college in the 
mountains there, and as I would ask 
the question, then the Cuban minder 
would translate the question from 
English into Spanish and ask in Spanish 
a question of the representatives of 
the university. They would hear the 
question. They would answer in Span


ish. The Cuban minder would interpret 
it back into English, and he would tell 
us what he supposedly said. 

Well, I am trying to learn the things 
I came there to learn, and the interpreter 
standing next to me, he was on 
the tour and he was not designed to be 
the interpreter, but he was the best interpreter 
I have ever had. His name 
was Ed Sabatini, and his parents owned 
real estate in Cuba that had been nationalized 
by Castro, taken away from 
them, and they had escaped from the 
island and lived in Miami. 

But Ed Sabatini, the son of the refugees 
that had gotten out of Cuba, he 
said to me, as I am listening to the responses 
to the questions that I think 
are being asked, he said: You realize, 
don’t you, that these Castro minders 
are not asking the questions that you 
are asking, and when they get the answers 
back, they are not giving back to 
you the answers that were given to 
them by the faculty here at this university. 
And I said: No, I didn’t realize 
that. Of course, I didn’t understand 
enough Spanish to realize that. 

So he began to interpret this for me, 
and he was interpreting not only what 
was said, but he was interpreting what 
wasn’t said, what body language was 
there, and filling me in on the things 
that he was soaking up in that encounter. 


So after a little while, we realized it 
doesn’t pay for us to stand here and 
talk to these people because we are not 
going to get the truth out of them anyway. 
They are just putting us through 
this exercise. And so we stepped away 
from the group and went down and 
spoke to some students who were sitting 
on the curb. 

I had already asked the faculty: Do 
you have Internet services up here on 
the mountain? And the faculty had answered 
back, or at least through the 
minder: Yes, we have Internet services. 
So we began to talk to the students, 
and we got straighter answers. 

Well, they did have Internet service. 
The had a computer class going on 
right then up in a building adjacent to 
where we were. And so I asked them: 
So, if you want to access the Internet, 
how do you get to that Internet? Tell 
me how that works. 

Their answer was: Well, if we have research 
or a question that we want to 
get resolved, we write that question 
down on a piece of paper, and then we 
hand that to our instructor. Our instructor 
decides whether to approve 
our request or not. 

If he approves it, then that goes into 
a packet that goes down the mountain, 
in a Russian deuce and a half, 70 kilometers 
to Santa Clara, where the Internet 
connection is. It is run by Castro’s 
people. Then they look at the request. 
They type that request out onto the 
Internet if they are approved that the 
question can be allowed to be asked 
and answered, and then the question 
goes out on the Internet. They 
download the response that they are 
looking for. If they approve it, they 


H7116 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

will take that response down and then 
redact the things they don’t want the 
student to know, but print the document, 
put that document back on a 
Russian deuce and a half, and it goes 70 
kilometers back up the mountain. It 
takes days or even weeks to get an answer 
from the Internet. 

I asked them: Tell me about your 
Internet service. Their answer was: Oh, 
yes, we have Internet service here, 
good access to Internet service. That is 
what it is. Give a piece of paper a ride 
down a mountain on a Russian deuce 
and a half 70 kilometers, going through 
the minders and through the censors 
and out to the Internet, back again, redacted, 
back on the deuce and a half, 
back up the mountain. 

Now, how long would it take you to 
research anything on the Internet if 
you have to process things through 
that means? 

It was amazing to me that anyone 
could even seriously suggest such a 
thing, that it was Internet access, 
when it had to take two rides in a Russian 
deuce and a half and go through a 
censor and a couple of minders. That is 
what we saw down there at that university. 


So I said: I want to go look at this 
computer class that is going on. As I 
headed up that way, the leader of our 
tour group was gathering people together, 
and I said: I am going to go 
look at this computer class up here. 

He said: We are going to leave. That 
meant we were supposed to jump in 
these deuce and a halfs and take our 
ride back down the mountain. 

I said: I am going to go up and see 
the computers. 

He said: Well, we are going to leave 
you here. 

I said: Then I will see you in Havana. 

So I thought they were bluffing, and 
they were, but Ed Sabatini and I went 
into that classroom, kind of down in 
the basement of a school building 
there, and there sat about 12 computers, 
all old 386s or maybe even earlier, 
and they had two or three male 
students all sitting in front of each 
computer. And there on the screen was 
the five points of why capitalism is bad 
and Marxism is good. They were teaching 
the lesson of Marxist ideology right 
there on the screens of those old computers 
while these students sat there 
sharing a screen to look at. 

When we walked in, it kind of took 
over the room. And once they found 
out that we were from America, the 
students had questions they wanted to 
ask, and they began to ask the questions. 
They were interpreted through 
Ed Sabatini, and then to me, and I answered 
them. After awhile, it became 
so rapid-fire that Ed just answered the 
questions and he told me what happened 
as we walked out of there. 

But they were asking questions 
like—and this was agriculture. I said 
extension. So they were asking questions 
like, let’s see: Who sets the price 
on the markets for, say, grain? And 
they are probably thinking rice and 

sugar, maybe beans, and I am thinking 
corn and soybeans. Who sets the price? 

And we say: The market sets the 
price. 

Well, what is the market? 

Well, it is supply and demand. Buyers 
come in and they make an offer, and if 
they can buy what they want at that 
price, then that is the price. If they are 
getting more than they want, they 
lower the price. If they are getting less 
than they want, they raise the price. 

Pretty big idea. You could see them 
try to figure out what that meant. 

Then they said: How many times 
does the price—when does the price 
change? They were thinking that there 
still was some government that set our 
commodity prices, our grain prices, 
maybe once a month or twice a year or 
whatever they might do. 

I said to them: That price can 
change, actually, several times a 
minute. It is kind of a living, moving 
market because it reacts to the bids 
that are out there. 

Hard to think of what that means. 

Who sets—they wanted to know what 
are our land values, and I told them. 

Who set the values on land? 

Well, the buyers and the sellers set 
the value on land. They just didn’t 
have a concept of that. 

And then it would be: Why would 
anyone sell land if they owned land? 

Well, there is a concept of real estate 
ownership that doesn’t exist in any significant 
way in a Marxist economy 
that controls and owns everything. 

So we went through that. It was a 
fascinating time for them, and it was 
fascinating for me to see how they reacted, 
the inquisitiveness of those 
young students that had an opportunity 
to hear what it is like in America. 


And you heard from them: I want to 
go to America. I would say everyone in 
that room wanted to go to America. 
That is the sense of not only the deprivation 
that is there because they are 
on rations of rice and beans and sugar, 
but deprived, also, of ideas, the opportunity 
to have access to information, 
to exchange ideas. That has been 
crushed by Castro. 

So the potential of the people in 
Cuba, which I think is terrific, has 
been so badly damaged by the oppressing 
oppression of Castro, who threw 
thousands of his political enemies into 
prison. 

b 2045 

He tortured them, he beat them, and 
he executed many, many of them. 

I remember, Mr. Speaker, the vision, 
the images that I saw on television 
back in 1959, 1960, and beyond when 
Castro and Che Guevara took over 
Cuba and they executed the political 
enemies. They took them up against a 
wall. Many of them were wearing white 
slacks and white Cuban shirts that 
hang outside their belt, and they were 
put up to the wall, blindfolded. They 
stood there with their hands tied, and 
they were shot. That was back when 

television showed the reality of what 
was taking place. We hadn’t gotten so 
sensitive that when there was murder 
that was picked up on cameras, it went 
on television without being blurred out 
as if somehow we are too sensitive to 
see things like that. It was an awful 
sight. 

I recall a man who was about to be 
executed, one of Castro’s enemies, and 
he insisted that he not be blindfolded, 
he insisted that he not be tied, and he 
insisted that he give the order for them 
to fire. So, Mr. Speaker, he stood in 
front of that execution wall in his 
white Cuban shirt, his white slacks, 
and his sandals. He raised his hand 
with no blindfold on him. He looked at 
that firing squad, he raised his hand, 
and in a moment of, I will say, just an 
amazing display of courage and nerve 
dropped his hand, and that firing squad 
fired and executed that probably very 
innocent Cuban there in front of that 
wall. He became one of thousands who 
were put into their graves because they 
were political opponents of the Marxist, 
the Communist, the dictator, the 
tyrant that had turned Cuba into a 
prison island; and it has been a prison 
island ever since 1959. 

Finally, the biological solution has 
kicked in, and Fidel Castro is no more. 
There is one more to go, and that is 
Raul. The Cuban people need to know 
that when they go to their grave, their 
grip on the island of Cuba is letting go. 
It has got to let go, and the free spirit 
that exists within the hearts of the 
Cuban people needs to be released. 
They need to be freed up on that island 
so they can control their own destiny, 
they can live their own lives, they can 
become prosperous by their brains and 
the sweat of their own brow and have 
the opportunities that we have here in 
this country. 

This new administration needs to be 
about regime change in Cuba. The 
Western Hemisphere has been terrorized 
by the policies of Fidel Castro and 
by his support for the Marxists 
throughout a number of countries in 
Central and South America. That includes 
Nicaragua, and it includes Venezuela 
with Hugo Chavez and now his 
successor. It includes a number of 
other countries. Castro has engaged in 
trouble in Grenada and also over into 
Africa. He has fomented that kind of 
terror and sent his army out there for 
hire to take freedom away from other 
people. If we had been absent his influence 
in this hemisphere, chances are 
South America itself would be much 
more free than it is today. That is Castro. 


I recall visiting the Hotel Nacional. 
In there, when you walk inside, that 
was a place where the rich and famous 
from America used to play down in 
Cuba at the Hotel Nacional in Havana. 
It looks out across the sea, and there is 
a gun emplacement there, a cannon 
that sits down in a bunker that was 
used to defend the shores of Cuba back 
during the Spanish-American War— 
they say the Spanish-Cuban-American 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7117 

War—in 1898. There in that hotel, you 
will see pictures of the celebrities of 
the time: Marilyn Monroe, Stan 
Musial, Rocky Marciano. When you 
walk through, you see the people that 
I will say lived in black-and-white 
fame in America. Their pictures are on 
the wall in the Hotel Nacional. Also, 
there in the parking lot was the 1959 
Jaguar station wagon that was the vehicle 
of the previous dictator, 
Batista’s, wife, who had that green 1959 
Jaguar station wagon. 

But things have stopped. They are 
frozen in time. The most typical taxicab 
in Havana was a 1954 Chevy, and it 
had a 3-cylinder Russian diesel engine 
under the hood. If you look around the 
island, you would see Russian tractors 
that were parked, and they had been 
stripped for parts. I didn’t see any of 
them out there running. It is the only 
place in civilization that I know that 
once went from animal husbandry agriculture 
where they used beasts of burden 
to till the fields to Russian tractors 
when the Russians were subsidizing 
the Cubans, and then when the 
Soviet Union imploded, Mr. Speaker; 
and that ended Christmas Day 1991, 
when the Soviet Union went under and 
was no more. Over a period of time 
their subsidy for the island of Cuba 
dried up. 

They were subsidizing Cubans this 
way. Cubans then were producing 
sugar. The open market on sugar was 6 
cents a pound. The Russians were sending 
them oil for sugar, making a trade. 
The sugar that was going to Russia was 
costing the Russians 51 cents worth of 
oil. So you have a more than eight 
times multiplier effect sugar for oil, 
and that profit that was in there was 
what was propping up the failed, failed, 
failed economy of Cuba. 

The Soviet Union imploded. That 
subsidy ended, and those Russian tractors 
broke down and finally died. So 
you end up with brahma oxen that are 
out there doing the tillage in the field. 
They would tie them on a piece of rope, 
and they would have what I called a 
pivot grazing system rather than a 
pivot irrigation system. I happened to 
plow behind a team of brahma oxen out 
there just kind of for sport. He was out 
in the field working. I asked him: Can 
I take a round? So I got to do that and 
got a picture of that, Mr. Speaker. 
That island had regressed so much that 
the tractors were parked and the animals 
had been put back to work. 

Hugo Chavez decided he would prop 
up the Cuban island with the wealth of 
his oil. Of course, when Chavez himself 
went to his Maker, thankfully, and the 
prosperity that Venezuela enjoyed collapsed 
around the failed ideology of a 
Marxist-controlled economy, that then 
shut down the subsidy for Cuba. 

Who should come along to save the 
day? 

Barack Obama, who decided he is 
going to open up trade with Cuba, establish 
an embassy there, and let 
American dollars come down into Cuba 
so the island could become prosperous 
again. 

We needed to let the Marxist regime 
finally be starved out. That was the 
purpose of the sanctions against Cuba, 
and that is why it has never been wise 
to open up free trade with Cuba. Now it 
is wise for this incoming Trump administration 
to promote regime change in 
Cuba. Raul can’t last much longer. 
Freedom must come to the Cuban people, 
and I want to swim ashore at the 
Bay of Pigs and walk out on a free 
Cuba. I have done that at GTMO, but I 
want to do that at the Bay of Pigs, Mr. 
Speaker. 

Another way that Cuba was propped 
up would be any foreign currency that 
came in—tourists could come into 
Cuba, and they would come into Cuba 
especially from Europe. They would go 
to the beaches at Varadero and other 
places, and so they spent their euros 
there. Americans would sneak into 
Cuba by going through the Bahamas 
and get their passport punched out 
there and take a separate flight and fly 
into Cuba. They might also come in 
through the south or come in through 
Mexico, but American dollars came 
down. 

Now, here is the rule: we think we 
are helping Cubans by doing business 
with Cuba with American dollars. Here 
is how it was when I was there—and I 
don’t think it is any different today— 
the exchange rate of the Cuban peso to 
the dollar was 21 pesos to the dollar. 
Cubans could earn American dollars, 
they could hold American dollars, but 
they can’t spend American dollars unless 
they go to a Cuban bank where 
they have to take their American dollar, 
lay that down on the counter and 
get an exchange for Cuban currency. 
But the Cuban currency doesn’t give 
them 21 pesos, which is the exchange 
rate for their American dollar. It gives 
them one peso for the American dollar, 
and 20 pesos go into Castro’s bank account 
to prop up Cuba. 

That is how he is raking the vigorish 
out of those transactions that are 
there. Or they could go into a Dollar 
Store where their dollar would only get 
them a peso. That is how that money 
went back into the hands of Castro. He 
is raking up the foreign currency and 
using that to prop up the military, 
keep his prisons open, and suppress and 
repress the Cuban people. 

Mr. Speaker, we are in a place in history 
here where I am glad to see that 
the Trump administration understands 
what needs to happen in Cuba. I am 
hopeful the Cuban people have enough 
of that spirit left in them to understand 
what they need to do. Mourn for 
Fidel is not what they need to do, but 
replace him with a leader of, by, and 
for the Cuban people, and a constitution 
that protects the individual interest 
and rights of the Cuban people is 
what needs to happen. 

I fully support the effort of the free-
minded and free-spirited Cuban people 
to one day also be free, all 11 million of 
them. Mr. Speaker, I will do my best to 
stay in shape so I can swim ashore and 
wade out onto a free Cuba. 

Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance 
of my time. 

f 

LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
By unanimous consent, leave of absence 
was granted to: 
Mr. DEFAZIO (at the request of Ms. 
PELOSI) for today after 5 p.m. and December 
2 on account of medical appointment. 


f 

SENATE BILL REFERRED 
A bill of the Senate of the following 
title was taken from the Speaker’s 
table and, under the rule, referred as 
follows: 

S. 2971. An act to authorize the National 
Urban Search and Rescue Response System; 
to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. 
f 

ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED 
Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House, 
reported and found truly enrolled bills 
of the House of the following titles, 
which were thereupon signed by the 
Speaker: 

H.R. 4419. An act to update the financial 
disclosure requirements for judges of the 
District of Columbia courts and to make 
other improvements to the District of Columbia 
courts. 
H.R. 5785. An act to amend title 5, United 
States Code, to provide for an annuity supplement 
for certain air traffic controllers. 
f 

BILL PRESENTED TO THE 
PRESIDENT 

Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House, 
reported that on December 1, 2016, she 
presented to the President of the 
United States, for his approval, the following 
bill: 

H.R. 4665. To require the Secretary of Commerce 
to conduct an assessment and analysis 
of the outdoor recreation economy of the 
United States, and for other purposes. 
f 

ADJOURNMENT 
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I 
move that the House do now adjourn. 
The motion was agreed to; accordingly 
(at 8 o’clock and 55 minutes 
p.m.), the House adjourned until tomorrow, 
Friday, December 2, 2016, at 9 
a.m. 

f 

EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS, 
ETC. 

Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive 
communications were taken from the 
Speaker’s table and referred as follows: 

7689. A letter from the Alternate OSD 
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department 
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule — DoD Environmental Laboratory 
Accreditation Program (ELAP) [Docket ID: 
DOD-2013-OS-0230] (RIN: 0790-AJ16) received 
November 28, 2016, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Services. 


7690. A letter from the Associate General 
Counsel for Legislation and Regulations, Office 
of the Secretary, Department of Housing 


H7118 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE December 1, 2016 

and Urban Development, transmitting the 
Department’s final rule — Equal Access to 
Housing in HUD’s Native American and Native 
Hawaiian Programs — Regardless of 
Sexual Orientation or Gender Identity 
[Docket No.: FR-5861-F-03] (RIN: 2506-AC40) 
received November 28, 2016, pursuant to 5 

U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial 
Services. 
7691. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Legislation, Office of the Secretary, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting the 2015 Outcome Evaluations 
of Administration for Native Americans 
(ANA) Projects Report to Congress, pursuant 
to Sec. 811(e) of the Native American Programs 
Act of 1974, as amended; to the Committee 
on Education and the Workforce. 

7692. A letter from the Assistant General 
Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corporation, transmitting the 
Corporation’s final rule — Benefits Payable 
in Terminated Single-Employer Plans; Interest 
Assumptions for Paying Benefits received 
November 28, 2016, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Education 
and the Workforce. 

7693. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — Air Plan Approval; MA; Decommissioning 
of Stage II Vapor Recovery 
Systems [EPA-R01-OAR-2015-0351; A-1-FRL-
9950-92-Region 1] received November 28, 2016, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

7694. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
final rule — 2015 Revisions and Confidentiality 
Determinations for Data Elements 
Under the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule 
[EPA-HQ-OAR-2015-0526; FRL-9954-42-OAR] 
(RIN: 2060-AS60) received November 28, 2016, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce. 

7695. A letter from the Assistant Secretary, 
Legislative Affairs, Department of State, 
transmitting a six-month periodic report, 
covering May 15, 2016 to November 15, 2016, 
on the national emergency with respect to 
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 
that was declared in Executive Order 
12938 of November 14, 1994, and has been continued 
by the President each year, most recently 
on November 8, 2016, pursuant to 50 
U.S.C. 1641(c); Public Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); 
(90 Stat. 1257) and 50 U.S.C. 1703(c); Public 
Law 95-223, Sec 204(c); (91 Stat. 1627); to the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs. 

7696. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Export Administration, Bureau of Industry 
and Security, Department of Commerce, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule — 
Commerce Control List: Removal of Certain 
Nuclear Nonproliferation (NP) Column 2 
Controls [Docket No.: 160718621-6621-01] (RIN: 
0694-AH04) received November 28, 2016, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs. 

7697. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Export Administration, Bureau of Industry 
and Security, Department of Commerce, 
transmitting the Department’s final rule — 
Temporary General License: Extension of 
Validity [Docket No.: 160106014-6728-04] (RIN: 
0694-AG82) received November 28, 2016, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs. 

7698. A letter from the Associate General 
Counsel, Department of Agriculture, transmitting 
a notification of a federal vacancy 

and a notification of a discontinuation of 
service in acting role, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat. 
2681-614); to the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform. 

7699. A letter from the Acting Director, 
Employee Services, Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting the Office’s final rule 

— Veterans’ Preference (RIN: 3206-AM79) received 
November 28, 2016, pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform. 
7700. A letter from the Acting Director, 
Employee Services, Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting the Office’s final rule 

— Career and Career-Conditional Employment 
(RIN: 3206-AM64) received November 28, 
2016, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public 
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the 
Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform. 
7701. A letter from the Deputy Assistant to 
the President and Director, Office of Administration, 
Executive Office of the President, 
transmitting the personnel report as required 
by 3 U.S.C. 113 (2016), for personnel 
employed in the White House Office, the Executive 
Residence at the White House, the 
Office of the Vice President, the Office of 
Policy Development (Domestic Policy Staff), 
and the Office of Administration for FY 2016; 
to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform. 

7702. A letter from the Acting Director, 
Planning and Policy Analysis, Office of Personnel 
Management, transmitting the Office’s 
final rule — Federal Employees Health 
Benefits Program Coverage for Certain Firefighters 
and Intermittent Emergency Response 
Personnel (RIN: 3206-AM66) received 
November 28, 2016, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform. 

7703. A letter from the Assistant Secretary 
for Legislation, Office of the Secretary, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting a report titled ‘‘Fiscal Year 
2015 Report to Congress on Contract Funding 
of Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act Awards (Includes Fiscal Year 
2012-2015 Data)’’, pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 450j-
1(c); Public Law 93-638, Sec. 106(c) (as added 
by Public Law 106-260, Sec. 9(2)); (114 Stat. 
733); to the Committee on Natural Resources. 

7704. A letter from the Division Chief, Regulatory 
Affairs, Bureau of Land Management, 
Department of the Interior, transmitting 
the Department’s Major final rule — 
Waste Prevention, Production Subject to 
Royalties, and Resource Conservation 
[17X.LLWO310000.L13100000.PP0000] (RIN: 
1004-AE14) received November 18, 2016, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee 
on Natural Resources. 

7705. A letter from the Director, Regulatory 
Management Division, Environmental 
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s 
withdrawal of direct final rule — Effluent 
Limitations Guidelines and Standards 
for the Oil and Gas Extraction Point Source 
Category — Implementation Date Extension 
[EPA-HQ-OW-2014-0598; FRL-9955-65-OW] 
(RIN: 2040-AF68) received November 28, 2016, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. 


7706. A letter from the Deputy General 
Counsel, Office of the General Counsel, 
Small Business Administration, transmitting 
the Administration’s interim final rule 

— Debt Refinancing in 504 Loan Program 
(RIN: 3245-AG79) received November 28, 2016, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee 
on Small Business. 
7707. A letter from the Director, Office of 
Regulations and Reports Clearance, Social 
Security Administration, transmitting the 
Administration’s final rule — Revised Medical 
Criteria for Evaluating Human Immunodeficiency 
Virus (HIV) Infection and for 
Evaluating Functional Limitations in Immune 
System Disorders [Docket No.: SSA-
2007-0082] (RIN: 0960-AG71) November 28, 2016, 
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee 
on Ways and Means. 

7708. A letter from the Chief, Border Security 
Regulations Branch, U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection, Department of Homeland 
Security, transmitting the Department’s 
final rule — The U.S. Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation Business Travel Card Program 
[Docket No.: USCBP-2013-0029] (RIN: 1651-
AB01) received November 21, 2016, pursuant 
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, 
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on 
Homeland Security. 

f 

PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS 

Under clause 2 of rule XII, public 
bills and resolutions of the following 
titles were introduced and severally referred, 
as follows: 

By Mrs. MILLER of Michigan (for herself 
and Mr. BRADY of Pennsylvania): 

H.R. 6415. A bill to provide for the appointment 
of members of the Board of Directors of 
the Office of Compliance to replace members 
whose terms expire during 2017, and for other 
purposes; to the Committee on House Administration. 
By Mr. ROE of Tennessee (for himself, 
Mr. MILLER of Florida, Mr. BILIRAKIS, 
Mr. BOST, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, and Mr. 
ABRAHAM): 

H.R. 6416. A bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code, to make certain improvements 
in the laws administered by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and in 
addition to the Committees on the Budget, 
and Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself and 
Mrs. LOVE): 

H.R. 6417. A bill to prohibit a court from 
awarding damages based on race, ethnicity, 
gender, religion, or actual or perceived sexual 
orientation, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. LATTA: 

H.R. 6418. A bill to amend certain provisions 
of the Safe Drinking Water Act, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. 
By Mr. LEWIS: 

H.R. 6419. A bill to amend the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to 
provide that COPS grant funds may be used 
to hire and train new, additional career law 
enforcement officers who are residents of the 
communities they serve, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Miss RICE OF NEW YORK: 

H.R. 6420. A bill to improve the screening 
of transgender persons at airport security 
checkpoints, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Homeland Security. 
By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself, Mr. 
DEUTCH, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. ROS-
LEHTINEN, Mr. ENGEL, and Mr. 
ISRAEL): 

H.R. 6421. A bill to provide for the consideration 
of a definition of anti-Semitism for 
the enforcement of Federal antidiscrimination 
laws concerning education programs or 

December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7119 

activities; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. ROSKAM (for himself and Mr. 
BLUMENAUER): 

H.R. 6422. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to treat qualified alternative 
commuter programs as an excludable 
qualified transportation fringe benefit; to 
the Committee on Ways and Means. 
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Mr. 
CONYERS, Mr. CAPUANO, Ms. JUDY CHU 
of California, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. 
EDWARDS, Ms. NORTON, Mr. DANNY K. 
DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. 
CARTWRIGHT, and Mr. GRIJALVA): 

H.R. 6423. A bill to amend the Truth in 
Lending Act and the Electronic Fund Transfer 
Act to provide justice to victims of fraud; 
to the Committee on Financial Services. 
By Mr. COHEN: 

H.J. Res. 104. A joint resolution proposing 
an amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States to abolish the electoral college 
and to provide for the direct election of 
the President and Vice President of the 
United States; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Ms. LEE (for herself, Ms. KELLY of 
Illinois, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, 
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. PASCRELL, 
Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr. SIRES, Mr. 
PRICE of North Carolina, Ms. CLARKE 
of New York, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. 
TAKANO, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. ELLISON, 
Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. BASS, Mr. DEUTCH, 
and Ms. JACKSON LEE): 

H. Con. Res. 177. Concurrent resolution 
supporting the goals and ideals of World 
AIDS Day; to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee 
on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently 
determined by the Speaker, in each 
case for consideration of such provisions as 
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
concerned. 
By Mr. WELCH: 

H. Con. Res. 178. Concurrent resolution 
clarifying any potential misunderstanding as 
to whether actions taken by President-elect 
Donald Trump constitute a violation of the 
Emoluments Clause, and calling on President-
elect Trump to divest his interest in, 
and sever his relationship to, the Trump Organization; 
to the Committee on Oversight 
and Government Reform. 
f 

CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY 
STATEMENT 

Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of 
the Rules of the House of Representatives, 
the following statements are submitted 
regarding the specific powers 
granted to Congress in the Constitution 
to enact the accompanying bill or 
joint resolution. 

By Mrs. MILLER of Michigan: 

H.R. 6415. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution, 
which grants Congress the authority to 

make laws governing the commerce among 
several states, including employment discrimination 
laws. 

By Mr. ROE of Tennessee: 

H.R. 6416. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article 1, Section 8 of the United States 
Constitution. 

By Mr. KENNEDY: 

H.R. 6417. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 and the 14th Amendment 


By Mr. LATTA: 

H.R. 6418. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 

To make all Laws which shall be necessary 
and proper for carrying into Execution the 
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested 
by this Constitution in the Government of 
the United States, or in any Department or 
Officer thereof. 

By Mr. LEWIS: 

H.R. 6419. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

This bill is enacted pursuant to the power 
granted to Congress under Article I of the 
United States Constitution and its subsequent 
amendments, and further clarified and 
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the 
United States. 

By Miss RICE of New York: 

H.R. 6420. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Constitution 
of the United States 

By Mr. ROSKAM: 

H.R. 6421. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of 
the United States of America 

By Mr. ROSKAM: 

H.R. 6422. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article I, Section 8, which states ‘‘The 
Congress shall have Power To lay and collect 
Taxes,’’ and Article I, Section 7, which states 
‘‘All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate 
in the House of Representatives.’’ 

By Mr. SHERMAN: 

H.R. 6423. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 

By Mr. COHEN: 

H.J. Res. 104. 

Congress has the power to enact this legislation 
pursuant to the following: 

Article V 

f 

ADDITIONAL SPONSORS 
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors 
were added to public bills and resolutions, 
as follows: 

H.R. 169: Mr. COFFMAN. 
H.R. 546: Mr. BEYER. 
H.R. 590: Mr. HECK of Washington. 
H.R. 1061: Mr. HECK of Washington. 
H.R. 1147: Mr. DAVIDSON. 
H.R. 1220: Mr. NEAL. 
H.R. 1421: Mr. HECK of Washington. 
H.R. 1707: Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 1787: Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 2197: Ms. CASTOR of Florida. 
H.R. 2274: Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 2461: Mr. KING of New York. 
H.R. 2493: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 2747: Mr. MOULTON. 
H.R. 3244: Mr. MEEHAN. 
H.R. 3559: Mr. PAYNE. 
H.R. 4296: Mr. REICHERT. 
H.R. 4298: Mr. KING of New York, Mr. LANGEVIN, 
Mr. WALZ, and Mr. COURTNEY. 
H.R. 4376: Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 4456: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. COSTELLO 
of Pennsylvania. 
H.R. 4731: Mr. JORDAN. 
H.R. 4907: Mr. KING of New York. 
H.R. 5090: Mr. TAKANO, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. 
MEEKS, Mr. YODER, and Mr. GENE GREEN of 
Texas. 
H.R. 5167: Ms. LOFGREN. 
H.R. 5258: Ms. MENG. 
H.R. 5296: Mr. FITZPATRICK. 
H.R. 5334: Ms. KUSTER. 
H.R. 5474: Mr. LOWENTHAL. 
H.R. 5501: Ms. KUSTER. 
H.R. 5932: Mr. WALZ. 
H.R. 5956: Mr. LEWIS and Ms. STEFANIK. 
H.R. 5961: Mr. CA´ RDENAS and Mr. JODY B. 
HICE of Georgia. 
H.R. 5999:Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr. MCGOVERN, 
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, and Mr. ROE 
of Tennessee 
H.R. 6045: Mr. BUCHANAN. 
H.R. 6100: Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. 
H.R. 6117: Mr. SWALWELL of California. 
H.R. 6132: Mr. HECK of Washington. 
H.R. 6273: Ms. KUSTER. 
H.R. 6306: Mr. CONYERS. 
H.R. 6316: Mr. NUNES. 
H.R. 6317: Ms. KUSTER. 
H.R. 6336: Ms. KUSTER. 
H.R. 6340: Ms. SLAUGHTER, Mr. WELCH, Ms. 
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. SWALWELL of 
California, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. 
KIND, Mr. GRIJALVA, and Mr. O’ROURKE. 
H.R. 6377: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mrs. DINGELL, 
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. GRIJALVA, and Mr. BLUMENAUER. 
H.R. 6382: Mr. MOULTON, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. 
SWALWELL of California, Ms. MENG, Ms. LOFGREN, 
Mr. AL GREEN of Texas, Mr. 
GARAMENDI, Mr. KIND, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and 
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. 
H. Con. Res. 159: Mr. COOK and Mr. MARINO. 
H. Con. Res. 161: Ms. BROWNLEY of California. 
H. Con. Res. 171: Mr. OLSON, Mr. HASTINGS, 
and Mr. VARGAS. 
H. Res. 753: Mr. PERLMUTTER. 
H. Res. 924: Mr. HECK of Washington. 

UNUMEPLURIBUSUNUMEPLURIBUS
Congressional Record 

United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 114th 
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 

Vol. 162 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2016 No. 172 

The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was 
called to order by the President pro 
tempore (Mr. HATCH). 

f 

PRAYER 

The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, offered 
the following prayer: 

Let us pray. 

Eternal God, thank You for the joy of 
Your surprises. You do more for us 
than we can ask or imagine. 

Keep the hearts of our Senators 
steadfast toward You. Lord, lead them 
safely to the refuge of Your choosing, 
for we know You desire to give them a 
future and a hope. Today, provide them 
with the power to do Your will as they 
more fully realize that they are Your 
servants. Give them the wisdom to 
make Your Holy Word the litmus test 
by which they evaluate each action as 
they refuse to deviate from the path of 
integrity. May they maintain a conscious 
void of offense toward You or 
humanity. 

We pray in Your great Name. Amen. 

f 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The President pro tempore led the 
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows: 

I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the 
United States of America, and to the Republic 
for which it stands, one nation under God, 
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY 
LEADER 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
HELLER). The majority leader is recognized. 


f 

TRIBUTE TO HAL ROGERS 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, this 
morning I would like to pay tribute to 
a fellow Kentuckian who has devoted 
much of his life to public service, my 
good friend Congressman HAL ROGERS 
of Kentucky’s Fifth District. HAL, of 

Senate 

course, just won reelection in his district 
with a modest 100 percent of the 
vote. I imagine he will serve here in 
Congress for many years to come, but 
his term as chairman of the House Appropriations 
Committee is drawing to a 
close at the end of this 114th Congress. 
So I thought it fitting to say a few 
words about the extraordinary tenure 
of this remarkable man. 

HAL has served on the Appropriations 
Committee for more than 30 years and 
was selected as the 31st chairman 6 
years ago. To mark the end of his 
chairmanship, family and friends and 
several special guests assembled a few 
months back in the House Appropriations 
Committee hearing room to 
unveil his official portrait as chairman 
of the committee. 

HAL’s portrait hangs alongside those 
of former chairmen, including some 
who went on to become Speakers of the 
House and, in the case of James Garfield, 
President of the United States. 
Adding his portrait to this distinguished 
group is the continuation of a 
century-old tradition. Many of HAL’s 
colleagues, including Speaker RYAN, 
were on hand to mark the occasion of 
a well-deserved tribute to a man I have 
been honored to serve alongside for 
many years and to have known for 
even longer. 

I first met HAL ROGERS several decades 
ago and later worked with him 
during the 1971 Kentucky gubernatorial 
campaign. While the Republican candidate 
that year, Tom Emberton, did 
not win the race, it was clear to me 
after getting to know HAL that he was 
destined for great things. Born in the 
small town of Barrier, KY, HAL became 
first a country lawyer in the town of 
Somerset and then the Commonwealth 
attorney for the region. He was first 
elected to the Congress with the 
Reagan revolution back in 1980 and is 
now the dean of Kentucky’s congressional 
delegation. 

Chairman ROGERS is legendary in 
Congress and back home for his relent


less focus on the concerns and priorities 
of the people of the Fifth District. 
Long before the issue of opioid abuse 
dominated national headlines, HAL 
played an instrumental role in highlighting 
and preventing the scourge of 
drug abuse that has impacted many in 
Eastern Kentucky. 

He has helped bring jobs and hope to 
the people of Southeastern Kentucky, 
thanks to projects like PRIDE, which 
promotes environmental responsibility, 
Operation UNITE, which helps 
fight substance abuse, and the Southeast 
Kentucky Economic Development 
Corporation, which encourages economic 
development and growth. 

Through the years, HAL spearheaded 
numerous educational initiatives for 
all ages: Forward in the Fifth, Rogers 
Scholars, Rogers Explorers, and the 
Rogers Entrepreneurial Leadership Institute, 
just to name a few. 

HAL helped launched TOUR Southern 
and Eastern Kentucky in order to 
boost tourism in the region and the 
Center for Rural Development as a way 
to help transform the area’s economy. 
He has helped secure millions for the 
Kentucky National Guard, in which he 
proudly served, and the U.S. Forest 
Service for marijuana eradication efforts, 
and he recently spearheaded the 
Shaping Our Appalachian Region, or 
SOAR, initiative as a way to unite 
Kentucky’s Appalachian counties 
around a common vision for attracting 
jobs and economic development to the 
region. He has also supported the Appalachian 
Regional Commission, pushed 
back against the Obama administration’s 
War on Coal, and has earned a 
reputation as a tireless advocate for a 
strong national defense. I am proud to 
have worked closely with HAL on these 
and many other projects on behalf of 
the Bluegrass State. 

His constituents can also be proud of 
the work that he has done for his Nation 
in his role as Appropriations 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 

. 
S6629 


S6630 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

chair. Under his leadership, the Appropriations 
Committee responsibly refocused 
efforts on regular order, reviewing 
and approving all—I repeat 
all—12 annual government spending 
bills through the committee during his 
tenure. As chairman, HAL has made 
oversight of Federal spending a top priority, 
and his Appropriations Committee 
has held more than 600 hearings 
to ensure that Federal tax dollars were 
being spent properly. Under his leadership, 
the Appropriations Committee 
has gotten results, such as reducing 
wasteful spending by $126 billion in 
total annual spending cuts since fiscal 
year 2010. 

HAL is only the third Kentuckian to 
chair the House Appropriations Committee. 
The last was Congressman William 
Natcher, who held that position 
until 1994. He is, of course, the only Republican 
chairman from the Commonwealth. 
I know that becoming Appropriations 
Committee chairman was a 
great achievement for HAL and something 
he worked hard to earn. 

Just on a personal note, I would like 
to add that HAL ROGERS is a great 
friend of mine. Elaine and I have always 
enjoyed spending time with him 
and his wife Cynthia. As the senior Republican 
in Kentucky politics, he has 
been a leader in getting things done for 
the benefit of the people of his district 
and of the Commonwealth for nearly 
four decades. 

You can see his impact in many 
places. One can drive across the Hal 
Rogers Parkway in Southeastern Kentucky 
or visit one of the many institutions 
in service to Kentuckians. HAL is 
literally beloved in Southeastern Kentucky 
where he regularly wins reelection, 
as I indicated earlier, with an 
overwhelming majority of the votes. 

HAL loves the people he serves. He is 
one of them. He is proud to champion 
their causes here in the Nation’s Capital. 


I thank Chairman ROGERS for his 
steady hand at the helm of the House 
Appropriations Committee for the last 
6 years and for all he has done for Kentucky. 
Both Kentucky and the Nation 
are thankful for his service. As he 
turns his considerable energies to other 
important roles in Congress, I wish him 
the very best and look forward to 
partnering with him many more times 
in the future on behalf of the Commonwealth 
we both love. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, will my 
friend yield for a brief comment? 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Yes. 

Mr. REID. Mr. President, I am going 
to give a speech here in a minute regarding 
Senator MIKULSKI. But the reason 
I mention that is I want the record 
to reflect that Chairman ROGERS has 
been so nice to me whenever we have 
gone to public events and events dealing 
with the work of the Hill. He has 
been always a gentleman—I mean first 
class. 

In meetings with just Democrats, I 
have heard Senator MIKULSKI talk 
about her great relationship with this 

good man, so it has been pleasant for 
me to listen to the description of the 
relationship of the Republican leader 
and the chairman of the Appropriations 
Committee. I just wanted to take 
a minute and let everyone know that I 
have also been honored by his presence 
wherever it has been. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO DAVID VITTER 
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, 
after two terms in the Senate and more 
than two decades of public service, our 
friend and colleague Senator DAVID 
VITTER will be leaving us at the end of 
his term. I would like to say a few 
words before he does. 
Our friend from Louisiana is the first 
Republican Senator popularly elected 
from his home State. It is an impressive 
achievement that history will long 
record. But Senator VITTER had little 
opportunity to celebrate at the time. 
Hurricane Katrina hit just a few 
months after he took office. It was a 
catastrophic natural disaster that presented 
massive and immediate challenges 
for Louisiana. 
Our colleague did not miss a beat. 
Back home, he and his team worked 
tirelessly to set up mobile offices. Here 
in the Senate he fought hard to bring 
aid to those in need. It underlined 
something we have all come to know 
about Senator VITTER: He is passionate 
about his home State. That has been a 
constant throughout his career. He 
simply loves Louisiana. He loves the 
richness of its history, loves the richness 
of its culture, loves the richness of 
its food, too—crawfish pie etouffee and 
several other things I can’t pronounce. 
Senator VITTER loves it all. 
He flies home just about every 
chance he gets. When he was younger, 
he turned down offers from Harvard 
and Yale to study law in the Pelican 
State. This is after he spent some time 
in Cambridge, MA, and Oxford, as a 
Rhodes Scholar, by the way—pretty 
impressive—so perhaps it was born of a 
simple lesson: You’re just not going to 
find alligator sauce piquante anywhere 
else. 
Nor are you likely to find many 
Saints fans, certainly none as enthusiastic 
as our colleague. You will find 
Senator VITTER glued to a TV every 
football Sunday. If the Senate is in session, 
he will watch between votes in 
the cloakroom behind me. He has been 
a diehard fan of the Black and Gold for 
as long as he can remember. It was not 
as though he had much choice, of 
course, growing up in the Big Easy, but 
he has stuck by his team through thick 
and thin—often thin. It is what made 
the Saints eventual Super Bowl win in 
2010 that much sweeter. He called it a 
dream come true. 
This tenacity and determination carries 
over to his political career as well. 
Whatever the issue, Senator VITTER’s 
staff says he is always looking for solutions 
that can improve the lives of 
Louisianans. They say he is always 
ready to roll up his sleeves and stay 

the course on legislation that will do 
just that. 

Senator VITTER has worked hard to 
protect his constituents from the effects 
of hurricanes and floods before 
they occur and to rebuild when they 
do. He has taken the lead on important 
initiatives to reform the Army Corps of 
Engineers and improve our Nation’s 
waterways. 

Most recently, he helped to pass the 
first significant reform of the Toxic 
Substances Control Act in nearly four 
decades. Senator VITTER was a critical 
player throughout, working across the 
aisle with our late colleague Senator 
Lautenberg and then Senator Udall to 
steer this much needed legislation to 
passage and eventually law. 

Senator VITTER says he believes his 
most important job is to keep an open-
door policy for constituents who need 
help. I know he would tell you that, although 
it may not be the most publicized 
part of the job, he considers it 
the most fulfilling. 

He still remembers the woman in desperate 
need of a liver transplant. With 
the help of his office, she got it. He 
still remembers the veteran who needed 
an operation to save his leg and his 
life. With the help of Team Vitter, he 
received that too. 

Senator VITTER will never forget the 
countless families in need of assistance 
following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, 
the oil spill, and recent flooding. He 
has seen firsthand the life-changing, 
even lifesaving impacts constituent 
casework can have. It is what inspired 
him to compile these powerful stories 
and best practices into a constituent 
service guidebook that will help guide 
his successor from day one. 

Of course, none of this would have 
been possible without a great staff, and 
Senator VITTER has built a strong team 
that is as committed to the people of 
Louisiana as he is. It is tight-knit. It is 
loyal. It is a group of men and women 
who know they have a boss who takes 
genuine interest in their success, who 
trusts their judgment, and who is always 
eager for their input. 

Senator VITTER awards a Reform 
Trophy each week to the staffer with 
the best new policy idea. He truly believes 
in a heavy dose of competition. 
That includes when his son Jack is in 
town. Staffers can expect to be enlisted 
in an entirely different competition 
then; it is called Office Olympics. Team 
Vitter knows to bring their A game 
when Jack is around. They also know 
to bring their sense of humor. It turns 
out Jack is a bit of a prankster. I hear 
you don’t want Jack laying hands on a 
Post-it note or a roll of aluminum foil 
when he is in the office, but lifelong 
memories are often made when he does 
just that. 

It is these relationships and it is this 
capacity to make a difference for the 
people of Louisiana through constituent 
service and the legislative 
process that I am sure our colleague 
will miss most when he leaves the Senate. 



December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6631 

Senator VITTER may be retiring from 
his post in this Chamber, but we know 
he will continue to look for ways to 
serve the State he loves so much. 
Today we join with his team and his 
family in recognizing his many years of 
service. I know each of us is looking 
forward to seeing what else our colleague 
is able to achieve on behalf of 
Louisiana in the years to come. 

Mr. VITTER. Mr. President, if the 
majority leader will yield for one moment, 
I want to thank the majority 
leader for his very kind words. Serving 
in the Senate for two terms has been 
the highest honor of my professional 
career. I have enjoyed it so much and 
have been honored by the relationship 
with all of my colleagues, certainly including 
the majority leader. I will have 
a few more reflections next Monday, 
but I sincerely thank him and also congratulate 
him for getting the Senate, 
particularly in the past 2 years, back 
to working order and some of its best 
practices. Not as a Member but as a 
cheerleader on the outside, I will be 
very much looking forward to even 
greater successes this coming Congress. 


Mr. MCCONNELL. I thank my colleague. 


I have one more statement, and then 
I will be through. 

f 

21ST CENTURY CURES BILL 
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, yesterday 
the House passed the 21st Century 
Cures bill with overwhelming bipartisan 
support, and I hope to see the 
same in the Senate. The medical innovation 
bill is one that can have a substantial 
impact for families across our 
country. It supports medical research, 
including promoting regenerative medicine. 
It provides real funding to help 
combat the prescription opioid epidemic 
that swept our Nation, particularly 
in places such as my home State 
of Kentucky. It improves mental 
health programs, among other bipartisan 
priorities. 
I thank Senator ALEXANDER, chairman 
of the HELP Committee, for his 
tireless work in driving this critical 
legislation forward. We should also 
thank Senator HATCH, who worked 
with our Finance colleagues on a significant 
number of Medicare provisions 
in the package to protect care for 
America’s seniors. I would like to note 
the great work by Senator CORNYN and 
Senator CASSIDY to incorporate key 
mental health reforms into the Cures 
legislation. 
Let’s work together to send it to the 
President’s desk as soon as possible. 

f 

IRAN SANCTIONS EXTENSION BILL 
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, 
later today we will have a chance to 
pass the Iran sanctions extension legislation 
that passed the House by a large 
margin. 
Given Iran’s continued pattern of aggression 
and the country’s persistent 

efforts to expand its sphere of influence 
across the region, preserving these 
sanctions is critical. This is even more 
important given how the current administration 
has been held hostage by 
Iran’s threats to withdraw from the nuclear 
agreement and how it has ignored 
Iran’s overall efforts to upset the balance 
of power in the greater Middle 
East. 

The authorities extended by this legislation 
give us some of the tools needed 
to, if necessary, impose sanctions to 
hold the regime to account and to keep 
the American people safer. Next year I 
expect the new administration and new 
Congress will undertake a total review 
of our overall Iran policy. These authorities 
should remain in place as we 
address how best to deal with the Iranian 
missile test, their support for 
Hezbollah, and their support for the 
Syrian regime. 

I urge all Senators to support this 
legislation later today. 

f 

RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY 
LEADER 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
ROUNDS). The Democratic leader is recognized. 


f 

TRIBUTE TO BARBARA MIKULSKI 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, at times it 
seems that Democrats and Republicans 
in the Senate don’t agree on very 
much, but the one thing we all agree 
on without any exception is this: Our 
colleague BARBARA MIKULSKI of Maryland 
can turn a phrase better than anyone 
else. It is one of her many gifts. 
Just listen to some of the memorable 
lines we have heard her utter. 
Running for her first term in the 
Senate, Barbara said: 
I might be short, but I won’t be overlooked. 
Just prior to the 2013 government 
shutdown, she told Senate Republicans: 
You can huff and puff for 21 hours, but you 
can’t be the magic dragon that blows the Affordable 
Care Act away. 
Earlier this year, she spoke of the 
Zika virus as follows: 
The mosquitoes are coming. The mosquitoes 
are already here. You can’t build a fence 
to keep them out, and the mosquitoes won’t 
pay for it. The mosquitoes are here—this is 
not an Obama fantasy. 
My personal favorite was something 
she said at a welcome reception for the 
1986 class. We gathered in the Russell 
Building, and it was a festive occasion 
for Democrats. We had many new 
Democrats. It was a huge class— 
Daschle, SHELBY, Breaux, GRAHAM, 
Conrad, and Fowler. There were many 
Democratic Senators, but the day was 
stolen by BARBARA MIKULSKI. We were 
all asked to say a word. About her opponent, 
she stood and said: ‘‘I may be 
short, but it sure wasn’t hard for me to 
slam dunk Linda Chavez,’’ her opponent. 
It is safe to say that with that quip, 
BARBARA immediately hit it off with 
all the Members of the Senate class. 

From the moment she first set foot 
in the Senate, Senator MIKULSKI was 
determined to be herself—honest, disciplined, 
principled, undaunted, with 
an incredible wit and a fierce love of 
Maryland. 

You will not find a Member of this 
body more devoted to her circumstances—
and we will talk about 
those in a little bit—devoted to her 
constituents and her State than Senator 
BARBARA MIKULSKI. She served the 
State of Maryland for more than 50 
years. A graduate of Mount Saint 
Agnes College and the University of 
Maryland, she made her name as a social 
worker and a political activist. 

Her grandparents are well known, especially 
her grandmother. They ran a 
bakery. I have heard her talk about 
that bakery so many times, how the 
people in the neighborhood would come 
and wait for that bakery to open. Her 
grandparents went there very early, as 
bakers do. She speaks with nostalgia, 
warmth, and love of her grandparents. 

Her own parents ran a little grocery 
store next to a steel mill. They would 
get there early in the morning, and the 
steelworkers would come and get their 
lunches and sometimes their breakfasts 
in that grocery store. Her parents 
were part of her life, as were her grandparents. 
She is so proud of them. 

In 1966 the Baltimore City Council 
proposed building a large highway 
through the center of the city of Baltimore. 
There was a downside to the 
plan: It would have razed entire neighborhoods, 
African-American neighborhoods 
and especially immigrant neighborhoods. 
They would have to leave 
their homes. 

The city’s leaders, political bosses, 
and, of course, the wealthy real estate 
interests and many others—the power 
brokers of the State of Maryland, the 
city of Baltimore—knew this was a 
done deal, but the power brokers didn’t 
count on a young social worker named 
MIKULSKI to fight for these families. It 
was her first political activism, and activism 
it was. It was her alone. Because 
of her magnetism, her warmth, and her 
ability to organize, she organized an effort 
to stop the highway. Everyone said 
it couldn’t be done, but no one bothered 
to tell BARBARA. She rallied the 
citizens of Baltimore in opposing the 
highway, and what a rally it was—not 
one rally, not two, but many of them 
until it was determined that she had 
won and the power brokers had lost. 
These people got to keep their homes, 
and today there is no superhighway 
towering over the center of Baltimore. 
People remember BARBARA MIKULSKI 
for that. 

BARBARA’s fight against the highway 
made her a hero in Baltimore and propelled 
her to the city council in 1971. In 
1976 BARBARA MIKULSKI fought her way 
to the Congress of the United States as 
a Member of the House of Representatives. 
After five terms in the House, 
BARBARA MIKULSKI ran for a seat in the 
Senate, in the one I just told you 
about. She slam-dunked her opponent, 


S6632 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

making her the first Democratic 
woman in history to win seats in both 
the House of Representatives and the 
Senate of the United States. Today 
Senator MIKULSKI is the longest serving 
woman to serve in the U.S. Congress. 
For more than 40 years she has 
served the people of Maryland. 

She is the first woman and first 
Marylander to chair the prestigious 
Senate Appropriations Committee. Her 
legislative record reflects her hard 
work for women and for equality. She 
worked with then-Senator JOE BIDEN 
to pass the first Violence Against 
Women Act in 1994. She was the architect 
of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay 
Act. She was repeatedly in the forefront 
to fight for paycheck fairness, 
which determined that men and women 
who do the same work should be paid 
the same money. 

When so many of us were duped by 
misinformation about the Iraq war, 
BARBARA MIKULSKI was not duped. She 
voted against the war. 

BARBARA’s career in the Senate has 
been historic, but I would be remiss if 
I failed to note her impact on my life 
and my career. As I said, we came to 
the Senate together. We served together. 
We got the same committees. 
We, of course, served together in the 
House, but that is a huge body—435 
Members. Frankly, I served there two 
terms. I know the Presiding Officer 
served in the House. It is a huge body. 
When I left there after 4 years, I can remember 
a vote taking place. Where did 
these people come from? It is hard to 
get to know 435 people, but I knew BARBARA. 
Everybody knew BARBARA. But 
in the Senate we came together, served 
on the same committees, and we got to 
know each other very well early on. 
BARBARA MIKULSKI has always protected 
me, looked out for me. 

One of my first memories took place 
right here in the well. I was new, she 
was new, and it was a very close vote. 
It was an issue that was her issue, and 
I couldn’t vote her way. That happens 
here. It was a close vote. People were 
nudging me: You have to change. You 
are going to upset everybody. You are 
a Democrat; you can’t do that. 

In walked BARBARA MIKULSKI into 
this crowd. I was there. I was really 
kind of afraid, but she wasn’t. She 
walked in. People moved away. She 
said: ‘‘Leave him alone. It is a matter 
of principle.’’ People left me alone. 
That is who she is. Was she disappointed? 
I know she would have been 
disappointed had I not done what I believed 
in. 

I served for 10 years with John Ensign, 
the Senator from Nevada. John 
and I had a unique relationship. In 1998 
I won an election for the Senate between 
Ensign and REID by 428 votes. 
That was a close election. But as fate 
would have it, 2 years later he came to 
the Senate. Senator Bryan retired, and 
he came to the Senate. 

Well, John had some personal issues. 
He hadn’t been here very long at all 
and had some personal issues. I called 

him at home, and he said: Yes, I have 
some problems here. I thought how I 
could help him. Here in the Senate we 
have the right to do what is called pair. 
Senator Ensign and I rarely voted alike 
anyway. So I said: Well, John, what I 
will do, so it won’t affect your voting 
record, is that I will just pair with you 
and that way it won’t show you have 
missed votes. So I agreed to do that, 
and for 2 weeks I told him I would do 
that. 

Well, it worked out fine because we 
voted differently on everything, except 
there came an issue that affected Senator 
MIKULSKI. She came to me and 
said: Why are you voting that way? I 
told her: Senator Ensign has a personal 
issue, and I told him I would pair with 
him. She said: If you had done anything 
else—and I won’t use her exact 
language—you would have been a fool. 
I wasn’t a fool in her mind. Even 
though it was not good for her, she was 
supportive of me. She would not have 
been satisfied that I had done something 
that was wrong in her mind, and 
she accepted my explanation and that I 
had to do what I did. We have always 
had a lot of respect for each other. 

Senator David Pryor of Arkansas had 
a heart attack and became very, very 

ill. He was a wonderful Senator. Everyone 
liked him. But he announced he 
couldn’t serve as secretary of the 
Democratic caucus, and that was something 
that I was interested in. But I 
also heard BARBARA MIKULSKI was interested 
in it. She had been so good to 
me so often that I immediately went to 
BARBARA, and with the two of us together, 
I said: BARBARA, do you want 
this secretary’s job? She said: Yes. I 
said: You have it. That was the end of 
that. Nobody opposed her. 
Well, surprisingly, a few years later, 
out of nowhere, Wendell Ford, who was 
the whip, decided he wasn’t going to 
run for reelection. It was a surprise to 
everyone. He was assistant Democratic 
leader, and that was something I was 
interested in, but again there was MIKULSKI. 
I didn’t say a word. The word 
was out there that I was interested in 
it. So as fate would have it, I was walking 
from my office in the Hart Building 
over toward the Russell Building, and 
she was coming in the other direction. 
Those of us who know BARBARA know 
that a lot of times she is a person of 
few words. She is not a gadfly. Sometimes 
she talks a lot, but sometimes 
she doesn’t want to talk. We were passing 
each other in the hall, and she said: 
I want to talk to you for a minute. She 
said: You took care of me in the Senate; 
the whip’s job is yours. That ended 
it. It was all over. When that was done, 
I had a clear route to be the whip of 
the Senate—the Democratic Senate. 

That is the relationship I have with 
BARBARA MIKULSKI. So she is as responsible 
as anyone for my years in Democratic 
leadership. Without her friendship 
and her loyalty my last 20 years in 
the Senate would have been much, 
much different. Working with BARBARA 
MIKULSKI is one of the highlights of my 

congressional career. Just hearing her 
speak is a privilege. 

I have seen and listened to good orators. 
When I was in the House—and my 
friend, the Democratic whip is here— 
we heard Jim Wright. Jim Wright was 
a great orator. He was the majority 
leader and the Speaker of the House. 
He was really good. Tom Lantos, an 
immigrant from Hungary, could speak. 
He was so dynamic, so good. Claude 
Pepper had a different style but was 
someone you listened to. Here in the 
Senate I have listened to some great 
orators. Back there was Dale Bumpers. 
I can still see him. He had a long cord 
here. He had an extra-long one, and he 
would walk up and down these aisles 
speaking. He was a great orator. I listened 
to him. George Mitchell, one of 
my predecessors, was so good, so articulate—
and DICK DURBIN, from Illinois. 
They are all terrific orators. 

But in my estimation, there is no 
better orator who I have come across 
in my congressional service than BARBARA 
MIKULSKI. We have talked about 
her one-liners, but I would like, just for 
a minute, to talk about a trip I took 
with a congressional delegation led by 
the very famous John Glenn—war hero, 
astronaut, and gentleman. We went to 
places in Europe. The Iron Curtain was 
down. We went to Poland. BARBARA MIKULSKI’s 
heritage is Polish. They called 
in John Glenn to give a speech. Ted 
Stevens from Alaska was also on that 
trip. I said: We have someone here who 
is of Polish heritage. Let’s listen to 
her. Oh, what a speech—I mean it was 
spellbinding. She talked about how she 
felt about who she was and about her 
grandparents and her parents. 

So I know there is no better orator 
than BARBARA MIKULSKI. That is because 
she speaks from the heart. She is 
honest and so genuine. As the Baltimore 
Sun wrote: ‘‘People know authenticity 
when they see it, and there’s 
nothing fake about BARBARA MIKULSKI, 
most especially her love of her job.’’ 
That is pretty good, coming from the 
biggest newspaper in the State. 

BARBARA has loved her job in the 
Senate, and the people of Maryland and 
the United States have loved having 
her as their advocate and defender. She 
leaves the Senate as she entered it, as 
a political activist and a fighter. 

So, BARBARA, thank you very much 
for your guidance, your mentoring, 
your friendship. It has been an honor to 
work by your side. We are forever 
friends. Godspeed, BARBARA MIKULSKI. 

I yield the floor. 

f 

RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the leadership time 
is reserved. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate will be 
in a period of morning business, with 
Senators permitted to speak therein 
for up to 10 minutes each. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6633 

The Democratic whip. 

f 

SENIOR SENATOR FROM 
MARYLAND 

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, let me 
just echo the comments of our Democratic 
leader, Senator REID, in relation 
to Senator MIKULSKI. I will save a few 
moments perhaps next week to speak 
my own tribute to her and give my own 
reminiscences. But I didn’t want to 
abruptly change the subject without 
saying I am in total agreement with 
Senator REID in terms of the quality of 
service and friendship that we have had 
with the senior Senator from the State 
of Maryland. 

f 

DACA 
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I come 
to the floor this morning to talk about 
an issue that I have raised many times 
from this very spot, and it is an issue 
relative to the undocumented young 
people living in America—undocumented 
because they are not legally in 
this country. They were brought here— 
many of them as infants, toddlers, or 
children—by their families. They were 
not aware of the family decision, other 
than the fact that they were in a car 
and moving into the United States. 
They didn’t really appreciate where 
they came from. Many of them never 
knew where they came from. Some of 
them don’t even speak the language of 
the country of their birth. They were 
brought here as children. They believed 
from the beginning they were part of 
America. In most, except in extraordinary 
circumstances, they were not 
even told of their immigration status 
at an early age. 
So they grew up going to school in 
America. They learned English. They 
pledged allegiance to the only flag they 
had ever known. They sang the national 
anthem of this country believing 
they were part of this country. At some 
point, though, there was this realization 
and disclosure that they were not. 
Legally, they weren’t. They were undocumented. 
So these children were raised in the 
shadow of uncertainty—uncertain as to 
whether a knock on the door at any 
time of day or night might change 
their world forever; whether or not 
their parents might be deported from 
this country and they would have to go 
with them; or, God forbid, that something 
would happen to them and they 
would be deported. They lived with 
that fear for a long time. 
I came to understand it when a Korean 
girl in Chicago who was looking 
for an opportunity to go to college because 
of her musical skills, realized she 
was undocumented and might not be 
able to do it. So she came to our office, 
told us of her situation, and we tried to 
help. 
So 15 years ago I introduced a bill 
called the DREAM Act. The DREAM 
Act said that for young people brought 
to this country under the age of 16 and 

who have lived here successfully, completed 
school, and have no criminal 
record to disqualify them, we should 
give them a chance—give them a 
chance to become legal in America and 
give them a chance, from my point of 
view, to become citizens. I introduced 
the bill 15 years ago. It has been debated. 
The word DREAMer came out of 
it and has now become pretty well-
known across America to describe this 
group of young people. 

A few years ago, I prevailed on the 
President of the United States, Barack 
Obama, to give them a fighting chance 
to stay here. So by Executive action, 
he created something called DACA. 
DACA is the Deferred Action for Childhood 
Arrivals Program. This would 
allow these young people, undocumented, 
to step forward and disclose 
their status, come up with a filing fee 
of almost $500, and go through a process 
where they were submitted to a 
criminal background check. If they 
cleared all the hurdles, they would be 
given a temporary—underline the word 
temporary—right to live in the United 
States without fear of deportation and 
to work in this country. 

So over the years, since the President’s 
Executive action, 744,000 young 
people have come forward. Their lives 
are amazing. I have told their stories 
over and over. Imagine, if you will, 
that you lived in fear of being deported 
tomorrow or fear that your family 
would be broken up and how that would 
weigh on you as a young person. So 
they did something that was maybe 
rash in the eyes of their parents but 
heroic in my eyes. They stepped forward, 
out of the shadows, and said: If 
the United States of America has set 
legal standards for us to follow to stay 
here, we will comply with them. Their 
parents warned them and their friends 
warned them: You are turning yourself 
in. You are telling this government 
who you are, where you are, and where 
they can find you. But they did it anyway, 
and I encouraged them to do it, 
and many others did as well, saying: If 
you show good faith in this country, 
good faith in this government, I will do 
everything in my power to make sure 
it isn’t used against you. 

Now we have reached a new stage in 
our history with a new President coming 
who has different views on immigration 
than the outgoing President. 
My concern, and a concern shared by 
millions across America, is this: What 
is going to happen to these young 
kids—744,000 of them—who are currently 
in college, in high school, in professional 
schools, such as medical 
schools and law schools? They are 
doing amazing things with their lives, 
and yet things could happen immediately 
to change their status. 

I have talked to a number of my colleagues 
on the floor on both sides of 
the aisle about this, and there are pretty 
strong emotions about helping these 
young people. One of the leaders on 
this has been my friend and ally on immigration 
issues—on some immigra


tion issues—and that is LINDSEY GRAHAM 
of South Carolina. He and I talked 
about introducing legislation that 
would give a temporary stay so these 
young people could be protected until 
Congress does its work and comes up 
with an immigration bill that addresses 
this issue and many more. 

Senator GRAHAM and I discussed it 
again this morning, and we even hope 
to have this bill ready before we leave 
next week—a bipartisan effort to say 
to the new President: Give these young 
people a fighting chance. At least protect 
them until we have had a chance 
to act on the larger immigration issues 
before us. I hope that colleagues on 
both sides will join us. 

There has been a lot of talk about 
what the next Congress will look like 
and what we will do, how we will tackle 
the biggest issues of our time. The 
Affordable Care Act, for example, 
which I was proud to support, is clearly 
controversial. There wasn’t a single 
Republican Senator who voted for it. 
Some want to repeal it and replace it. 
Some are suggesting we will repeal it, 
but do it with 2 years in advance. 

So 2 years from now there might be a 
new Affordable Care Act. That puts us 
in a responsible position of coming up 
with an alternative in that period of 
time. I don’t know if that is how this 
conversation will end, but I would suggest 
the same logic could apply when it 
comes to immigration: At least give us 
the time to come up with an alternative 
on immigration, and during that 
period of time, let us protect these 
youngest people. 

The stories I have told on the floor 
say more about this issue than any 
words I can express, and I want to tell 
another one of those stories this morning. 
This is about a young man from Illinois. 
His name is Asael Reyes. Here is 
his picture. He has his University of Illinois 
at Chicago T-shirt on. He is an 
interesting young man. 

He came to the United States at the 
age of 5, brought here from Mexico. He 
grew up on the North Side of Chicago. 
He is a bright young man, but he 
learned he was undocumented early in 
life. He really got despondent over the 
thought that he could lose everything 
and have to be forced to leave America. 
His classes were a challenge to him, 
and with this fear in his mind he started 
doing very poorly. In fact, he 
dropped out of high school. He said it 
weighed heavily on his mind that he 
might have to leave. 

He said: 

I felt that because of my status, I had no 
future. As a result, my grades and attendance 
plummeted and I struggled to do anything 
productive. 

Then, in 2012, President Obama announced 
DACA, and everything 
changed for Asael Reyes. Here is how 
he explains it: 

DACA meant that I had a future worth 
fighting for, and because of that I returned 
to school and reignited my passion for study. 
Because of DACA, I want to do whatever I 
can to contribute to my country. 


S6634 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

When Asael says ‘‘my country,’’ he 
means the United States of America— 
the only country he has ever known. 

In his senior year in high school, this 
young man turned his life around because 
of DACA. He improved his 
grades, he was active in his community, 
he was head of his school’s fund 
raising committee, he volunteered in a 
mentoring program, and he worked full 
time to support himself and his family. 
You see, young people like him—undocumented—
don’t qualify for any Federal 
assistance to go to college. If you 
want to go to college, you have to pay 
for it. For most of them, it means 
working pretty hard to come up with 
the money to do it. 

Today Asael is in his sophomore year 
in the Honors College—the Honors College—
at the University of Illinois at 
Chicago. He is a double major in psychology 
and political science, and he 
has a perfect 4.0 grade point average. 
Talk about a turnaround. He is involved 
with student government, leads 
a recreational bike club called College 
of Cycling. Every week he delivers food 
from the college dining halls on bike to 
a local homeless shelter. This effort 
has inspired other student groups to 
start similar initiatives. He mentors 
middle school students, and he is the 
youngest board member of the Erie 
Neighborhood House—a place I have 
visited many times—a social service 
agency that provides assistance to low-
income families in the city of Chicago. 
In addition to all this, he works part 
time as a security guard at local events 
like Cubs baseball games and Bears 
football games. 

Asael dreams of working in Chicago’s 
city government someday. He says: ‘‘I 
have a passion for my city, and I feel 
an obligation to do whatever I can to 
make it great by serving its communities.’’ 
This is one story—one story 
out of 744,000. 

Will America be better if Asael Reyes 
is given his chance to stay here to 
make this a better nation? Of course, it 
will. At an early age, this young man 
was able to do a turnaround just on the 
hope that someday he might be able to 
live in this country legally. 

There are so many stories just like 
his. In that same city of Chicago, at 
Loyola University School of Medicine, 
there are 28 students who are undocumented. 
The school opened up competition, 
and some of the brightest kids 
around America for the first time saw 
a chance for an undocumented student 
to be a doctor. 

They have to sign up, incidentally— 
borrowing the money from the State of 
Illinois for their education—to serve a 
year of their lives as doctors in under-
served areas of Illinois, in rural areas, 
and in the inner city, for each year 
they go to medical school. They willingly 
do it. They are prepared to give 
back. Asael is prepared to give back. 
The question is, Will we give them a 
chance? 

I am not an expert in the area of social 
media, but yesterday we tweeted a 

short message about this DACA challenge 
and what is going to happen to 
these 744,000 young people across America. 
The hashtag ‘‘save DACA’’ went 
out. My staff reports to me—and they 
are expert on this, I am not—in the 
span of 2 hours, we were trending 
across the United States of America. 
Six million people saw this hashtag 
over 10 million times. Think of that, 6 
million people in 2 hours. It touched 
them what can happen to this young 
man and so many others. 

So will Congress rise to this challenge? 
Will Democrats and Republicans 
come to the rescue of these young people 
who are asking for just a chance— 
brought to this country not by their 
decision but the decision of their parents—
asking for a chance now to have 
a life? I hope we will. It will be good for 
them. It will sure be good for America. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO MARK KIRK 
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, on January 
3, there will be a new Senate sworn 
in. Members come down this aisle, to 
be sworn in over here by the Vice 
President of the United States, to become 
Members of the U.S. Senate. It 
will be the passing of the Senate seat 
in our State from Senator MARK KIRK 
to Senator-elect TAMMY DUCKWORTH. I 
would like to say a few words about my 
colleague MARK KIRK. 
For the last 6 years, MARK and I have 
had a very positive professional relationship. 
The night he won the election, 
I was standing with his opponent 
Alexi Giannoulias when Alexi made the 
call to MARK KIRK to congratulate him. 
MARK asked that I take the phone, and 
I did. 
He said: I want to work with you. I 
know we just competed against one another 
in the election, but we now have 
a responsibility together to represent 
the State of Illinois, and we started a 
positive working relationship—a relationship 
based on mutual respect. One 
of the things we did was to continue a 
tradition. 
Since 1985, my mentor and colleague 
in the House, and my predecessor in 
the Senate, Paul Simon of Illinois, 
started a Thursday morning breakfast, 
inviting people from Illinois who were 
in Washington and those who wish they 
were from Illinois, to come in for free 
coffee and donuts at no taxpayer expense. 
It was an hour-long public meeting 
so we could talk about what was 
happening in the Senate and then answer 
any questions and pose for pictures 
if they wanted them. I asked 
MARK KIRK to continue this, even 
though we were of opposite political 
faith, and we did, for a long time. We 
worked together to make sure the people 
of Illinois felt welcomed. We often 
took differing views on issues—that is 
understandable—but we did it in a civil 
way. People said they thought it was 
one of the highlights of their trip to 
see two Senators from two different 
parties working together. We did—and 
not just on those Thursday mornings. 
We found reasons to do it on the floor. 

In the vast majority of cases, when it 
came to filling Federal judicial vacancies, 
MARK KIRK and I worked together 
to agree. Rarely did we disagree on 
those who needed to be chosen. As a result, 
we have had a pretty good record 
of filling vacancies in the State of Illinois. 


Then, of course, it was in 2012 that a 
disaster struck and MARK KIRK suffered 
a stroke. It was almost a life-ending 
experience. He is lucky—lucky—to be 
alive today. He knows it, and we all 
know it too. I primarily kept in touch 
with his staff, and with him, during the 
course of his rehabilitation after that 
stroke. It was a calendar year he had 
to give to rehabilitation, to learn how 
to walk again and speak again and do 
the basic things we take for granted. It 
was an extraordinary show of courage 
and determination on his part. 

Finally, before he could return to the 
Senate, I visited with him and saw him 
some 10 months after the stroke and 
realized the devastation he weathered 
and how much he had managed to recover 
because of his sheer determination. 
The one thing he told me, though, 
was that he was determined to come 
back to the United States Senate and 
walk up those steps right into the Senate 
Chamber. He was working every 
single day on treadmills and with 
rehab experts to reach that day when 
he could get out of a car and walk up 
those steps. He asked me if I would ask 
other Senators to join him—especially 
his close friend JOE MANCHIN, a Democratic 
Senator from West Virginia, and 
we did. That day came and it was an 
amazing day. He started at the bottom 
of those steps and worked his way up, 
all the way into the Senate Chamber, 
to the applause of his colleagues— 
Democrats and Republicans—all the 
way up those steps. We realized what 
an amazing recovery he had made. 

Our colleague Tim Johnson of the 
State of South Dakota had gone 
through a similar devastating experience. 
MARK KIRK said many times, 
when he was about to give up, he 
thought, Tim Johnson got back to the 
Senate. I can get back there if I work 
hard enough. He did just that. 

He was an exceptional colleague of 
mine in the Senate. There were a lot of 
things we agreed on. One of them was 
Lake Michigan. As a Congressman 
from the 10th Congressional District, 
which is on the shores of Lake Michigan, 
he was always committed to that 
lake. 

After the election, when the results 
didn’t come out as he wished, I sat 
down with him and said: MARK, what 
do you want me to do in memory of 
your commitment to public service? 

He said: Do everything you can to 
protect Lake Michigan. And I am going 
to. I asked his successor TAMMY 
DUCKWORTH to join me in that effort, 
and we will in his name and in his 
memory. 

I thank him for the service he has 
given to our State, the service he has 
given our Nation as an officer in the 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6635 

Navy Reserve, and for the years he put 
in as a staff member to Congressman 
John Porter, for the work he did in the 
House of Representatives representing 
the 10th Congressional District, and for 
his term in the United States Senate. 
It has been a pleasure and an honor to 
serve with him. Despite our political 
differences, I count him as a friend, as 
an ally, and as a true champion for the 
State of Illinois. 

I wish my colleague MARK KIRK the 

very best in his future endeavors. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

IRAN SANCTIONS EXTENSION BILL 
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I 
rise to voice my support of the extension 
of the Iran Sanctions Act, which I 
believe we must treat as just one step 
in our continued efforts to counter 
Iran’s destabilizing and nefarious actions 
throughout the world. This bill 
merely extends the basis of our extensive 
sanctions network against Iran 
aimed at crippling the Ayatollah’s 
deadly pursuit of a nuclear weapon for 
10 years. 
The Iran Sanctions Act, which is part 
of the extensive network of sanctions 
that I helped author for the United 
States and our allies to levy against 
the Iranian regime, serves as the basis 
of the economic leverage that brought 
Iran to the negotiating table in the 
first place. Throughout my tenure in 
Congress, I have authored and championed 
the foundation of our network 
of sanctions that crippled Iran’s economy 
and kept its nuclear pursuits at 
bay. It has been my consistent position 
that the United States must address 
these nefarious activities apart from 
the nuclear portfolio. We need to send 
a signal to Iran that the United States, 
while meeting its obligations under the 
JCPOA, will continue to respond to 
other threatening and dangerous activities 
the Iranian regime has taken. 
Throughout debate over the Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action, its proponents 
made a number of repeated 
claims. Among these were that it was 
crippling sanctions that brought Iran 
to the negotiating table and that in the 
event of a breach of the agreement, the 
United States and our implementing 
partners would have every authority to 
‘‘snap back’’—the term that was 
coined—the sanctions that have been 
lifted. If the sanctions architecture has 
expired, then we have no sanctions 
which we can snap back. These sanctions 
were in place when the JCPOA 
was authored and signed, and it follows 
that they should remain in place. 
Many of the agreement’s proponents 
argued that putting the JCPOA in 

place would give the United States and 
our allies the opportunity to focus on 
countering Iran’s more conventional 
threats to American security and regional 
stability. Since the nuclear 
agreement came into force, Iran has 
continued its efforts to destabilize the 
region and increase its power through 
proxy and terrorist networks. 

Since we signed the nuclear agreement 
with Iran, Iran has been testing 
the agreement, testing our resolve, and 
quite literally testing long-range ballistic 
missiles. We have seen multiple 
ballistic missile tests in the past year 
and a half—in October and November of 
last year and in March and May of this 
year and one launch not far from U.S. 
naval vessels. We have seen American 
sailors humiliated and detained at gunpoint. 
Just this weekend, a vessel controlled 
by the IRGC—the Iranian Revolutionary 
Guard—pointed a weapon at 
a U.S. military helicopter in the Strait 
of Hormuz. 

Iran continues to support a Houthi 
insurgency that toppled the legitimate 
Government of Yemen. It supports 
Shia militias in Iraq who seek to control 
the democratically elected Iraqi 
Government and bring it closer in line 
with Iran, threatening to return Iraq to 
civil war or worse. It supports Assad in 
Syria and continues to send millions of 
dollars and sophisticated weapons to 
Hezbollah and Hamas, threatening innocent 
civilians in Syria and Israel’s 
security. It continues human rights 
violations and sustains an aging clergy 
who is losing touch with the hopes and 
dreams of young Iranians and moderates, 
an out-of-touch clergy who 
dominates the power structures and 
the security apparatus that restricts 
civil liberties and promotes its hegemonic 
regional destabilization. It has 
the largest inventory of ballistic missiles 
in the Middle East, capable of delivering 
weapons of mass destruction, 
chemical weapons, biological weapons, 
and continues to develop cyber war capabilities. 


Iran continues its development of 
space-launch vehicles that can lead to 
a longer range missile capability. It 
has cooperated with North Korea on 
the transfer of ballistic missile technology. 
This is in addition to the fact 
that Iran has, by its own admission, 
violated the JCPOA itself. The International 
Atomic Agency reported that 
Iran has twice violated the terms of 
the agreement by producing more 
heavy water than the deal allows for. 
An excess stockpile of heavy water—a 
critical component of operating nuclear 
reactors—reduces Iran’s nuclear 
breakout time. Yet, even with this violation, 
the United States and our implementing 
partners have upheld our 
end of the bargain. 

As I have repeatedly said and which I 
outlined in the bill I authored earlier 
this year, we must take decisive action 
in response to Iran’s behavior which is 
in violation, among other things, of the 
United Nations Security Council resolutions 
and threatens America’s inter


ests and regional stability. The United 
States must reserve the right to hold 
Iran accountable for all of its actions, 
and that is exactly what my legislation 
would do by imposing stricter sanctions 
tied to specific nefarious actions 
outside the nuclear portfolio. 

After months of consultations with 
my colleagues in the Senate, outside 
experts, and constituents, I introduced 
a bipartisan bill, S. 3267, the Countering 
Iranian Threats Act, on July 14, 
just before Congress broke for recess. 
Its acronym, CITA, not only extends 
the Iran Sanctions Act, which we will 
do independently today, it also expands 
sanctions for ballistic missile development, 
support for terrorism, and other 
illicit Iranian actions, and it sanctions 
transfers of conventional weapons to or 
from Iran—the totality of Iran’s dangerous 
behavior outside of the nuclear 
portfolio. Specifically, it requires the 
administration to identify the specific 
Iranians, persons, or entities that are 
engaged in these activities and then 
apply sanctions that freeze their assets 
and block their international travel 
and business interests. In this way, the 
sanctions are surgical and designed to 
avoid interference with the terms of 
the Iran nuclear deal. 

We must provide leverage to seek 
necessary change in the conduct of the 
Iranian regime and hold Iran accountable 
for meeting its international obligations, 
including the terms of the 
JCPOA. We will improve the deplorable 
human rights situation in Iran and 
double down on our reassurances to 
Israel and American allies in the region 
of our full commitment to regional 
security. 

The fact is, there is much we can do 
to ensure a bright future undimmed by 
a nuclear cloud. We must authorize the 
Iran Sanctions Act that I have authored 
so that, as flawed as the JCPOA 
was, in my view, the Iranians will 
know the consequences of any breach 
and we will deal with missile proliferation, 
terrorism, and regional destabilization 
that is just as dangerous and 
just as threatening to American security 
and to our ally, the State of Israel, 
and our other allies in the region. I 
hope we will get to that new phase in 
the next Congress. 

With that, I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
RUBIO). Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

OPIOID EPIDEMIC 
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I rise 
today on another topic that is affecting 
every single State represented here in 
this Chamber, and that is the opioid 
epidemic. This is heroin, prescription 


S6636 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

drugs, and increasingly the synthetic 
heroin coming into our State and poisoning 
the people we represent, leading 
to a situation where we have about 120 
people dying every day of overdoses— 
about 5 a day in my State of Ohio. Unfortunately, 
I have to report today 
that it is getting worse, not better. 

I also believe that Congress is beginning 
to take the right steps to address 
that, and that is what I want to talk 
about today. This is the 28th time I 
have come to the floor to talk about 
this issue this year because it is one 
that affects every State, but particularly 
mine. 

I come from Ohio. It is a State that 
recently, based on a new report, was 
named as one of the top States in the 
country for overdoses and, unfortunately, 
the tragedy of overdose deaths. 

For those who die from overdoses, it 
is a tragedy, of course. But, frankly, it 
is the tip of the iceberg because there 
are so many people whose lives are 
shattered, whose lives are torn apart, 
who are not going to work and whose 
communities are facing more and more 
crime because of this issue. 

It was addressed here in this Chamber 
recently by the legislation I want 
to talk about today, but it is something 
we must find a way to deal with 
immediately because of the urgency of 
the problem. To this Senator, it is 
much like other public health crises 
that we face as a country, whether it is 
a Zika virus or other issues that come 
up where Congress has said that we 
need to have immediate funding and 
immediate changes in policies to address 
it. What Congress has done already 
and the President has signed into 
law as of a couple of months ago is 
broad legislation called CARA, or the 
Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery 
Act, and that legislation is historic 
in the sense that it is the first time in 
over 20 years that Congress has taken a 
look at this issue and come up with a 
comprehensive approach. It focuses on 
education and prevention to help people 
make the right decision and not get 
into the funnel of addiction, particularly 
focusing on young people. But it 
also focuses on better treatment services 
and recovery. 

Right now there are people who cannot 
access treatment, and part of the 
problem is that there is not adequate 
funding for that treatment. Part of the 
problem is that there is a stigma attached 
to addiction and people aren’t 
willing to come forward. Our legislation, 
broadly speaking, addresses that 
as well because it says that addiction 
is a disease and ought to be treated as 
such, which should help to get people 
into treatment. 

For the first time Congress is supporting 
not just treatment and detox 
but actually getting people into longer 
term recovery programs. Think of 
housing arrangements or other supportive 
recovery services that we found 
from our experience in doing the research 
around the country, which are 
much more successful in terms of help


ing people to turn their lives around 
and to lead a productive life. What we 
have found in the last 3 years with five 
conferences here in Washington, DC, 
bringing experts in from all around the 
country, is that this is something that 
can actually help to turn the tide. It is 
the first time Congress has focused on 
that. We also focused on the issue of 
ensuring that the law enforcement 
community and first responders—our 
firefighters and others—have access to 
this miracle drug called Narcan or 
naloxone, which is able to reverse the 
effects of an overdose. There is a program 
to allow them to apply to get the 
Narcan they need to help save lives, 
and it is amazing. It was administered 
16,000 times in Ohio last year. This 
year it will be a lot more than that. 
Those are lives that are saved. It is not 
the ultimate solution. The solution is 
getting people into treatment and the 
recovery they need, but it is necessary 
right now given the epidemic that we 
face. 

There are other aspects of the legislation, 
as well, that help ensure that 
we get the prescription drugs off the 
shelves, which unfortunately are being 
abused by having more drug take-back 
programs. We provide more resources 
to ensure that people can get the help 
they need in terms of treatment and 
recovery. 

I am happy to say that the legislation 
is beginning to be implemented. I 
would ask the administration again 
today to expedite that implementation. 
Of the seven larger programs that are 
part of this legislation, I think it is 
fair to say that two are being implemented 
at this point already, and we 
need to move forward with others as 
well. I know it takes a while. We need 
to be sure that the programs are properly 
implemented. But again, there 
needs to be an urgency about this 
issue. 

Section 303 of the legislation is being 
implemented now by the Department 
of Health and Human Services, as one 
example. It expands access to medication-
assisted treatment by allowing 
nurse practitioners and physician assistants 
to prescribe medication-assisted 
treatment to help treat an 
opioid use disorder. This is important. 
Back in my home State, I am hearing 
a lot from people who are already 
training people to be able to provide 
this assistance to those who are addicted 
and need to have this medication-
assisted treatment using methadone, 
Suboxone or Vivitrol. To allow 
nurse practitioners and physician assistants 
to participate in this is incredibly 
important. This is progress, but we 
are pushing the administration to implement 
the law even more quickly. 

CARA also deals with the growing demand 
for drugs, as I said, by improving 
access to longer term recovery. Recently, 
I was able to go to a recovery 
house in Canton, OH, called the Phoenix 
Recovery Home. I was able to talk 
to some of the recovering addicts 
there, in one case several times where 

it had not been successful, but this 
longer term recovery was working for 
them. Again, this legislation is so important 
to implement the recovery aspect 
of it. 

The funding for this has also been a 
work in progress. We have made some 
progress toward increasing the funding. 
This year there is a 47-percent increase 
in funding for the opioid crisis. In the 
CARA legislation there is an authorization 
for additional funding in the 
amount of $181 million every single 
year. That is important. That $181 million 
every year going forward is something 
that will be important in this 
comprehensive approach. 

In the short term, we are working 
under a short-term spending bill right 
now called the continuing resolution. 
We were able to get funding of $37 million 
that expires next week. We have to 
be sure that funding continues. That is 
adequate funding to implement the 
program now, but we need to ensure 
that we have short-term funding over 
the next period of time, whenever that 
is—some say it will be from now until 
March—to ensure we keep CARA implemented. 


What I am pleased to report today is 
that the 21st Century Cures legislation, 
which the House has sent over to the 
Senate, includes a dramatic increase in 
funding for this issue. It is about $500 
million per year over the next 2 years 
of additional funding that will be 
block-granted to the States for prevention 
and treatment. This is incredibly 
important to my State of Ohio and 
other States. My understanding is that 
States that have a higher prevalence of 
overdoses will be given priority in 
terms of these funding dollars. I think 
that is appropriate. It will be helpful to 
those States hardest hit. 

I wish that some of the parameters of 
the funding instructions had been a little 
broader to include this issue we 
talked about earlier having to deal 
with the recovery aspect. But we are 
working to ensure that, as this legislation 
is implemented, the States have 
maximum flexibility to address this 
problem. 

This legislation will be bipartisan. I 
think you will see the vote to be very 
bipartisan next week when we take it 
up, and in part it is because of this legislation. 
So between CARA and this 
new legislation in the Cures Act, we 
are going to see additional funding and 
it is urgent that we see it. 

The Kaiser Family Foundation recently 
released a report based on information 
from the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention that found that 
one in nine heroin deaths in the United 
States happened in our home State of 
Ohio. We have the most deaths from 
synthetic opioids, such as fentanyl and 
Carfentanil, that is coming into our 
communities. We are seeing unfortunately 
an increase not just in Ohio, but 
in other States around the country. 

Every day I hear about this issue 
from Ohioans. Sometimes when I am 
back home at events that have nothing 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6637 

to do with this substance abuse issue, 
people will come up to me, as they will 
this weekend, and talk about their personal 
stories. 

Recently, I received a couple of letters. 
Just before Thanksgiving I got a 
letter from Elaine. She is from Cincinnati, 
my hometown. She wrote that 
her daughter was lost to a drug overdose 
in 2013 and her grandson from a 
drug overdose on August 1 of this year. 
She writes that her other son is now an 
active heroin addict. She went through 
a story about trying to get him into a 
detox center for treatment but she 
faced barriers. One of the barriers in 
her case was being able to afford it. 
The insurance initially wouldn’t cover 
it. We tried to help her with that, but 
in the meantime, she is at her wit’s end 
to do something now to save her son’s 
life, having lost two other members of 
her family. Again, this legislation we 
are going to vote on early next week, 
the Cures Act will help with regard to 
Elaine’s inability to find detox and 
treatment for her son. 

Barbara in Columbus has been in 
touch with my office a lot. She lost her 
son Eric to an overdose in 2012. He was 
just a week shy of his 24th birthday. 
She writes that Eric wanted to go to 
rehab. His sister took him to every 
place in Columbus, and no one had 
room. There was no room at the inn. 
This is another issue we are finding 
across the country. Sometimes these 
resources are available in larger urban 
areas, but they are frankly oversubscribed 
given the issue of heroin and 
prescription drug addiction and the 
growing problem that we have. She 
writes: 

We need to stop jailing people for drug use. 
We need to stop people from dying in the 
streets, and get them into treatment clinics. 
We need to recognize the difference between 
drug use and drug abuse. We need focus on 
creating a society where people do not feel 
the need to numb the pain of their existence 
through drug abuse. 

I agree with her, and that is the focus 
of the legislation, the Comprehensive 
Addiction and Recovery Act. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator’s 
time has expired. 

Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask 
for an additional 30 seconds. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, again, 
I am pleased that Congress has made so 
much progress in this area. I see my 
colleague from the Judiciary Committee 
is here, Senator LEAHY, who 
helped get this legislation through his 
committee, along with Senator GRASSLEY. 
It is called the Comprehensive Addiction 
and Recovery Act. 

Now we have a chance with the Cures 
Act to put even more funding immediately 
against this problem. I encourage 
my colleagues to support that legislation. 
It is good legislation for other 
reasons, as well, but also because of the 
fact that this epidemic of opioid abuse 
must be addressed. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Vermont. 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I appreciate 
the work of my colleague, and I 
am glad to work with him on this. 

f 

JUSTICE FOR ALL 
REAUTHORIZATION BILL 

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, on another 
subject, each morning in this 
Chamber, we pledge allegiance to our 
flag. We end by declaring that we are 
‘‘one Nation under God with liberty 
and justice for all.’’ I believe in those 
words, but it is not enough just to say 
the words. It is our obligation to bring 
meaning to this promise. 

Today I hope that Congress will finally 
take an important step forward 
by passing the bipartisan Justice for 
All Reauthorization Act. I have long 
championed the Justice for All Act to 
make our justice system more fair. Our 
bill will strengthen indigent defense 
and expand the rights of crime victims. 
It will improve the use of forensic evidence, 
including rape kits, to provide 
justice swiftly. It will help protect the 
innocent by increasing access to 
postconviction DNA testing. The Senate 
passed this bipartisan legislation in 
June, and the House approved a slightly 
modified version earlier this week. I 
am disappointed the House decreased 
authorizations for many programs I 
support. Still, the bill makes important 
changes and will improve the lives 
of many of our most vulnerable citizens. 
I urge my fellow Senators to consent 
to its immediate passage. 

As a former prosecutor, I am dedicated 
to ensuring that our criminal 
justice system has integrity and the 
confidence of the public it serves. I 
started out on the front lines as State’s 
attorney in Chittenden County, VT. 
And for the past 20 years, I have served 
as chairman or ranking member of the 
Senate Judiciary Committee. During 
that time, it has become clear to me 
that our system is deeply flawed—there 
is not always justice for all. 

I have met many people who were 
wrongly convicted of crimes they did 
not commit. Kirk Bloodsworth—let me 
tell you a story about Kirk 
Bloodsworth, who is one such young 
man. He was just out of the Marines in 
1984 when he was falsely convicted and 
sentenced to death for the rape and 
murder of a 9-year-old girl. 

He always declared his innocence, 
but he was nearly executed, until DNA 
evidence proved he was innocent in 1993 
and helped law enforcement find the 
person who actually committed the 
crime. He became the first death row 
inmate in the United States exonerated 
by DNA evidence. 

I have always been impressed with 
his courage, but he was not the last. 
There were 149 innocent people exonerated 
just last year—in 1 year, 149—the 
highest number on record. Our justice 
system failed not only these innocent 
people, but also the victims of crime. 
Those of us who have been prosecutors 

know what it means if you convict the 
wrong person, aside from the injustice 
to the person who was convicted. It 
means that somebody who committed 
the crime is still out there free and has 
not been arrested and has not been convicted. 
Our justice system failed not 
only these innocent people but also the 
victims of crime. We can and we must 
do more to fix this injustice. 

I believe we should eliminate the 
death penalty entirely because I know 
the system gets it wrong. But until we 
do away with the death penalty, we 
must improve the integrity of our 
criminal justice system. That is why I 
joined with Kirk years ago to enact the 
Post-Conviction DNA Testing Grant 
Program. This was originally part of 
the Innocence Protection Act enacted 
in 2000, and it gives defendants like 
Kirk a chance to prove their innocence. 
That should not be too much to ask. 

We can and we must do more to fix 
this injustice. We must do more to ensure 
that our justice system gets it 
right from the beginning. That means 
improving the quality of indigent defense. 
Our system too often fails to 
provide a lawyer for every person accused 
of a crime, even if they cannot 
afford one. Our Founding Fathers recognized 
that no system could be fair if 
accusations by a king or a government 
went unchallenged. Without a vigorous 
defense, it is impossible to determine 
who is actually guilty and who has 
been wrongly accused. This legislation 
requires the Department of Justice to 
provide technical assistance to States 
to improve their indigent defense systems, 
and it ensures that public defenders 
will have a seat at the table when 
States determine how to use their 
Byrne JAG criminal justice funding. 

Improving systems of indigent defense 
will mean fewer innocent people 
behind bars. It is an outrage when an 
innocent person is wrongly punished. 
Of course, this injustice is compounded 
when the true perpetrator remains on 
the streets, able to commit more 
crimes. We lock up the wrong person, 
and the person who committed the 
crime is still out there to commit more 
crimes. 

My brave friend Debbie Smith, a 
champion for victims of sexual assault, 
waited 6 years after being attacked before 
her rape kit was tested and the 
perpetrator, the criminal, was caught. 
Survivors like Debbie should not have 
to live in anguish, knowing their 
attacker remains free. Our bill provides 
resources for forensic testing. 
Specifically, it creates a new tracking 
system so testing can be done more efficiently. 
It will also expand access to 
forensic exams in rural areas and for 
underserved populations. Coming from 
a State like Vermont, I know how important 
that will be in rural areas. 

Sexual assaults must be prevented 
wherever they occur, including in our 
Nation’s prisons. That is why I strongly 
supported the Prison Rape Elimination 
Act when it was enacted in 2003. 
This bill imposes true accountability 


S6638 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

by withholding Federal funds from 
States who do not implement protections 
to prevent sexual assaults in our 
prisons. It also protects grants designed 
to provide services for survivors 
of domestic and sexual violence. 

Our legislation also builds on the 
landmark protections provided for victims 
of domestic violence in the 2013 
Leahy-Crapo Violence Against Women 
Act. Imagine a woman living with an 
abusive partner in public housing, but 
her name is not on the lease. One night 
he beats her. She calls the police. The 
man is arrested. The women believes 
she is finally safe. But then the landlord 
says she has to leave immediately 
because the man is being evicted and 
she has no right to stay. The Justice 
for All Act will allow this woman time 
to remain there while she either finds 
another place to live or she can demonstrate 
she is eligible to remain under 
her own name. No person should be 
forced to choose between abuse and a 
place to live. 

And finally, our bill expands rights 
for victims of all crime. It builds upon 
the success of the Crime Victims’ 
Rights Act by making it easier for 
crime victims to have an interpreter 
present during court proceedings and 
to obtain court-ordered restitution. 

It has been my great honor to serve 
as the most senior Democrat on the 
Senate Judiciary Committee since 1997. 
During that time, I have worked with 
Senators from both sides of the aisle to 
craft solutions to some of the most important 
problems of our time. I am 
proud to join with my good friend the 
Senator from Texas, Mr. CORNYN, on 
this legislation and the many advocates 
who have helped guide our work. 
I especially appreciate the work of the 
Innocence Project, the Rape, Abuse & 
Incest National Network, the National 
Domestic Violence Hotline, the Consortium 
of Forensic Science Organizations, 
Just Detention International, 
the National Criminal Justice Association, 
the National District Attorneys 
Association, Legal Aid DC, the National 
Network to End Domestic Violence, 
the Joyful Heart Foundation, 
the ACLU, the National Juvenile Justice 
Network, and the National Center 
for Victims of Crime. 

Senator CORNYN and I have proved 
this is not a Republican or Democratic 
issue; this is a justice for all issue. 
That is why so many in both parties 
have joined, along with so many people 
around the country. 

As we consider legislation next Congress, 
we must remember that we have 
an obligation to look out for all victims 
and to create fairness in our 
criminal justice system. While we 
made some improvements this year, including 
passing the bipartisan Comprehensive 
Addiction and Recovery Act 
and the Sexual Assault Survivors’ 
Rights Act, I am disappointed the Republican-
led Congress failed to even 
allow a vote on bipartisan criminal justice 
reform legislation despite its 
strong support. As we look to the new 

Congress, I hope those who worked 
with me on this important issue will 
continue to support efforts to correct 
the costly mistakes of mandatory minimum 
sentences. I hope we can again 
build the same kind of broad bipartisan 
consensus in support of all victims of 
sexual assault and domestic violence as 
we did last Congress when we passed 
the Leahy-Crapo Violence Against 
Women Reauthorization Act through 
the Senate. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

APPOINTMENTS AND VOTER 
RIGHTS 

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, it has 
now been 23 days since the election—3 
weeks and 2 days. Certainly it has been 
a time of great frustration and anxiety 
for Americans across the board, anticipating 
what our government will look 
like, what our executive branch will 
look like under the leadership of President-
Elect Donald Trump. 

The early signs have been ones that 
have indeed given a great deal of concern 
to many groups across America, 
beginning with the appointment by Mr. 
Trump of a White nationalist as his 
Chief Strategist, an individual, Steve 
Bannon, who has run a Web site, 
Breitbart, that specialized in hate, specialized 
in division. 

It certainly reverberated in the campaign, 
but to bring that into the White 
House was something very few people 
anticipated would occur. It has been 
followed up by other appointments 
that were certainly a cause of deep 
concern. Just yesterday, there was the 
nomination of Steve Mnuchin, a Wall 
Street banker being assigned to the 
key post in our economy, the Treasury 
Secretary post—a post that will come 
before this Chamber for confirmation. 

This is not just someone from Wall 
Street but someone who specialized in 
acquiring a bank that had been deeply 
involved in predatory lending, proceeded 
to foreclosure on thousands and 
thousands of families, was using robo-
signing to accelerate that in violation 
of the law, was a specialist in turning 
people out of their homes, profited 
enormously in the strategy at the expense 
of working Americans seeking to 
have the fundamental comfort of owning 
their own home. 

There is a list of other appointments, 
nominees who have certainly more 
than raised eyebrows, raised anxiety, 
other individuals who have specialized 
in hate and division, and other incidents 
such as the attack on the cast of 
‘‘Hamilton’’ for proposing that individuals 
with a background of hate and division 
not be put into the Cabinet. 

Then we have this from our President-
elect. I quote his tweet: ‘‘In addition 
to winning the Electoral College 
in a landslide, I won the popular vote if 
you deduct the millions of people who 
voted illegally.’’ 

It is a straight falsehood. It has been 
debunked by every major analytical 
group, news organization in America. 
It is a complete fiction created in the 
middle of the night by our President-
elect, but why? I think most people 
conclude that the fact he lost the popular 
vote is so disturbing to the President-
elect because he wants to claim a 
mandate, but he cannot claim a mandate 
because the majority of Americans 
voted against him. They have 
voted against his strategy of division. 
They have voted against his strategy of 
incurring hate against Muslims, 
against immigrants, against women, 
against Hispanics, against African 
Americans. 

No, Donald Trump, you did not get 
the popular vote, you lost it. You lost 
it straight out by more than 2 million 
votes and perhaps a great deal more. 

No fiction you can stir up in the middle 
of the night can change that fundamental 
fact that you have no mandate 
in America for these politics of hate 
and division. 

The fact is, the citizens’ vote against 
Donald Trump would have been far 
larger except for a strategy of voter 
suppression. Voter suppression is a 
crime against the Constitution. Our 
Nation was founded on the vision of 
citizens being empowered to have a direct 
voice. 

President Jefferson wrote a letter in 
which he referred to the mother principle 
of our democracy. He described 
the mother principle as we can only 
claim to be a democratic republic to 
the degree that our decisions reflect 
the will of the people. Then he went on 
and said and that will only happen if 
the people, each person, has an equal 
voice. Then he went on to say that the 
biggest factor in equal voice is the 
power to vote. 

We know the original Constitution 
was incomplete in this vision, that it 
did not provide that full empowerment 
to women or to minorities—flaws that 
we have addressed over time in this vision 
and understanding that the power 
to vote is fundamental to a democracy. 

Indeed, President after President 
over the course of our Nation has recognized 
the power of the individual to 
vote as fundamental to our democratic 
Republic. 

LBJ said: ‘‘The vote is the most powerful 
instrument ever devised by man 
for breaking down injustice and destroying 
the terrible walls which imprison 
men because they are different 
from other men.’’ 

Of course, he was referring to race 
and the battle over the Voting Rights 
Act in 1965. 

FDR said: ‘‘The ultimate rulers of 
our democracy are not a President and 
Senators and Congressmen and Government 
officials but the voters of this 
country.’’ 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6639 

Robert Kennedy put it this way: 
‘‘Each citizen’s right to vote is fundamental 
to all the other rights of citizenship.’’ 


These are not simply ideas that 
Democrats put forward, these are not 
simply ideas that our Founders put forward, 
these are ideas that Republican 
Presidents have put forward. 

Let’s turn to Ronald Reagan, who 
said: ‘‘For this Nation to remain true 
to its principles, we cannot allow any 
American’s vote to be denied, diluted, 
or defiled.’’ 

Ronald Reagan was right and that is 
why voter suppression is wrong. It is an 
attack on the vision of our Nation in 
which citizens are in charge, not powerful 
elites, powerful special interests. 
Citizens are in charge. When you deliberately 
set out to take away the vote 
from citizens, you really are trying to 
shred the Constitution. 

So those in this Chamber who have 
been so engaged in promoting voter 
suppression and your attack on our 
Constitution—because it is simply 
wrong. As Ronald Reagan put it, it 
takes away the power of the individual, 
it denies, it dilutes, and it defiles. Quit 
denying, quit diluting, and quit defiling. 
Honor the vision of this Nation in 
which citizens are in charge. 

Unfortunately, we have seen quite 
the opposite. We have seen a systematic 
Republican strategy to tear down 
the power to vote in our Nation, and 
this must end. 

The Supreme Court set the stage for 
this by saying enough years have 
passed that the Voting Rights Act, 
which required areas and counties that 
had been active in voter suppression in 
the past, to get preapproval for 
changes in their law so they wouldn’t 
go back to defiling and denying the 
right to vote, said: Enough time has 
passed. We can now trust them. 

That Supreme Court decision was 
clearly a mistake because, immediately, 
jurisdiction after jurisdiction 
proceeded to enact voter suppression 
laws, often carrying out a debate deliberately 
about how to keep minorities 
from voting. This wasn’t something 
hidden. This wasn’t sneaky. This was 
straight out: We don’t want those people 
to vote who might vote against us. 

I tell you what I believe in. I believe 
in our Constitution. I believe in the 
power of citizens to vote, to be the 
rulemakers in our country, to have Jefferson’s 
vision, his mother principle of 
a democratic republic to make decisions 
in accordance with the will of the 
people, not the will of the powerful, 
special interests who are driving this 
voter suppression attack on Americans’ 
right to vote. 

A study of nearly 400 counties in Alabama, 
Arizona, Texas, Louisiana, 
North Carolina, South Carolina, and 
Mississippi found more than 860 polling 
places were eliminated in those counties. 
In Arizona, almost every single 
county shut down voting locations. 
More than half the counties in Louisiana, 
Texas, and Alabama did so. 
They provided data to the researchers. 

Let’s take a look at North Carolina, 
a State that passed a voter suppression 
law which included restrictive voter 
ID, ending same-day registration, requiring 
votes cast at the wrong polling 
location to be thrown out, and shrinking 
the time for early voting a week— 
and which did these things after debating 
directly how to suppress the right 
of minorities to vote. That is an evil 
crime against our Constitution and 
against citizens of the United States of 
America. The law targeted African-
American voters with what the Fourth 
Circuit of Appeals described as almost 
surgical precision. 

The law was overturned by the court, 
but that didn’t stop the North Carolina 
Republican Party’s very direct efforts 
to suppress the vote, to eliminate early 
voting days—especially on Sunday, to 
severely curtail the number and hours 
of voting places, of closing all but one 
early voting location in largely African-
American counties, and leaving 27 
fewer polling locations than in 2012. 

This strategy, successful in Mecklenburg 
County, which includes Charlotte 
and has more than 15 percent of the 
State’s Black voters. The State reduced 
early voting sites from 22 to 4. In 
three North Carolina counties with 
large African-American populations, 
the Republican Party put out a piece of 
mail and challenged thousands of voter 
registrations and tried to get them 
stripped from the rolls until the Federal 
court ordered them to stop. 

Long lines were the result at polling 
places that ‘‘put early voting totally 
out of reach for people without the 
time or resources to travel long distances 
to vote.’’ 

It is a crime against the Constitution, 
it is a crime against the citizens, 
and it significantly reduced turnout. It 
was successful. 

In 2008, 70 percent of African-American 
voters in North Carolina voted 
early. The rough estimates are that 
about 10 percent fewer ballots were 
cast in North Carolina in 2016, and at 
least a substantial share of that change 
has to be attributed to these voter suppression 
efforts that produced those 
long lines and made it so hard for individuals 
to vote. 

We saw glaring examples of voter 
suppression in Wisconsin, which has 
one of the strictest voter photo ID laws 
in the country. It is a law that by 
lower courts was ruled to serve no legitimate 
purpose, to make it unnecessarily 
harder to vote, and designed to 
disenfranchise African Americans, 
Latino students, the elderly people 
with disabilities, and low-income residents. 
It is a pure, partisan crime 
against the Constitution, a partisan 
crime against the citizens of Wisconsin. 


As a result of this law, Wisconsin saw 
its lowest voter turnout in two decades 
for an election decided by fewer than 
30,000 votes in the Presidential election. 


Neil Albrecht, executive director of 
the Milwaukee Election Commission, 

said: ‘‘Some of the greatest declines 
were in districts we projected would 
have the most trouble with voter ID requirements.’’ 


That is not all. There were online 
voter suppression strategies. In the 
final days before the election, there 
were a series of ads put out that were 
claiming to be from Secretary Clinton’s 
campaign and basically said to 
folks ‘‘vote from home’’ by text message 
or online. 

Well, of course, the law doesn’t allow 
people to vote by text message. It 
doesn’t allow people to vote online, although 
there may be a few exceptions 
around the country, the vast majority 
of places you cannot vote online. 

We have come a long way technologically 
in this country, but by and 
large you still have to show up in person. 
You still have to vote your ballot. 
In Oregon, you have to fill out your 
ballot, drop it off or mail it in. In other 
places around the country, you have to 
show up in that voting booth, whether 
it be early voting or day-of voting. 

An effort to mislead people is akin to 
the other voting suppression tactics 
where we have seen people put out messages 
that tell people the voting location 
has changed. People put out messages 
that the voting hours have 
changed. This—a new clever strategy— 
is saying: Don’t bother to go to the 
voting place, you can vote by text or 
you can vote online, encouraging people 
not to go to the polls. 

When somebody does something like 
that, it should be a crime that puts 
them in jail for years, misleading voters 
about where to vote, the times to 
vote, or how you can legally vote. It 
should be a crime that puts people in 
jail for years. Why is that? Because it 
is an attack on the foundation of our 
democratic Republic, the right to vote. 

It is this voter suppression strategy, 
a tactic which is completely at odds 
with the vision of a nation in which 
citizens are in charge—not powerful 
special interests, not powerful special 
interests like the Koch brothers who 
promised, in January of 2015, to put 
nearly a billion dollars into the 2016 
election. The Koch brothers take credit 
for essentially controlling this Chamber. 
Indeed, their money played a key 
role in race after race after race. We 
saw it in 2014. We saw it this year in 
2016. 

What kind of Nation do we want? A 
nation where oil-and-coal billionaires 
control this Chamber, the Senate, or a 
nation in which the citizens control 
this Chamber, a nation in which we 
honor Jefferson’s mother principle or a 
nation in which we have handed over 
the keys to a few powerful special interests 
and billionaires. 

Do we want a nation of, by, and for 
the people or a nation of, by, and for 
the powerful and the privileged? That 
is what is at stake here. A senior member 
of the Trump campaign publicly 
said: ‘‘We have three major voter suppression 
operations under way.’’ 

One of those was Operation Project 
Alamo, the campaign’s custom online 


S6640 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

database that contained detailed identity 
profiles on 220-million Americans. 
The point is, they used this information 
on more than 200 million Americans 
to target Secretary Clinton supporters 
with negative and misleading 
Facebook ads, the goal being voter suppression, 
as clearly stated by a senior 
member of the Trump campaign. 

Well, let’s go back to the principle 
laid out by President Ronald Reagan, 
and again I quote him: ‘‘For this Nation 
to be true to its principles, we 
cannot allow any American’s vote to be 
denied, diluted or defiled.’’ 

So I call on my colleagues who have 
been the proponents of voter suppression, 
who have been the proponents of 
attacking the Constitution, who have 
been the proponents of government of, 
by, and for the most powerful and the 
most privileged rather than the people, 
to listen. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. 
FISCHER). The Senator’s time has expired. 


Mr. MERKLEY. I ask unanimous 
consent for 2 more minutes. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I 
didn’t hear how long. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Two 
minutes. 

Mr. CORNYN. No objection here. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. MERKLEY. I thank the Chair. 

Those words should continue to reverberate 
in this Chamber. Colleagues, 
set your sights on the vision of ending 
your denying, diluting, and defiling of 
the most fundamental right close to 
the hearts of Americans and the foundation 
of a government of, by, and for 
the people. Only then will we have a 
government that responds to the real 
issues Americans face rather than the 
special goals of the most powerful and 
the most privileged. 

I thank the Chair. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
whip. 

f 

21ST CENTURY CURES BILL 
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, yesterday 
I spoke about the 21st Century 
Cures bill the House passed by a very 
large margin last night, and I am looking 
forward to taking up that legislation 
here in the Senate. I am particularly 
grateful that it includes some 
mental health reform legislation that I 
introduced here in the Senate. This 
represents the very first mental health 
reform in more than a decade, and it is 
high time we got it done. There are a 
lot of people who contributed to this 
effort, and I think it is something we 
can all be proud of. 
With the mental health portion of 
the bill, we have two chief goals in 
mind—first, to help those who are mentally 
ill get the treatment they need, 
and secondly, to help law enforcement 
and first responders know how to respond 
to a potential mental health cri


sis in order to keep the person they are 
responding to safe, as well as the first 
responders themselves. 

It opens up existing funds so that 
they can be used for more outpatient 
treatment options. That way, local and 
State governments can help identify 
mentally ill offenders, assess their 
mental health needs, and get them in 
the right treatment to improve their 
condition, rather than sending them to 
jail, where they will be warehoused and 
their condition will likely just get 
worse and worse. 

This legislation will also provide 
flexibility to State and local authorities 
so they can use what works in 
their communities to help mentally ill 
individuals in the criminal justice system 
get healthy. This could include 
things such as assisted outpatient 
treatments, where families can help 
their loved ones, with a backstop of 
court supervision so they will remain 
compliant with their doctors’ orders 
and take their medication, which will 
allow them to lead productive lives. 

This legislation will make available 
Federal grants so that our law enforcement 
officials have the resources to get 
the kind of training they need. When 
law enforcement officials are called to 
the scene of an incident with somebody 
suffering from a mental health crisis, 
it is very important that they know 
how to deescalate that crisis, both for 
the well-being of the individual suffering 
that crisis as well as the law enforcement 
officials responding. 

It will allow the creation of more crisis-
intervention teams comprised of 
law enforcement and first responders 
and even school officials, where appropriate, 
so they can rapidly respond to 
and counter a threat of violence in the 
community. 

Yesterday I received messages from 
some of the people who have worked 
with us on this legislation and know 
all too well how mental illness can affect 
our families. One individual wrote: 

After losing both [a] son and a husband to 
suicide, and having an adult son with bipolar 
disorder, I know only too well the frustrations 
of the mental health system. Thank 
you, Senator, for your determination and 
hard work to bring change to this broken 
system. 

This is why these mental health reforms 
are so important. People need 
help and the mental health system 
needs reform, and that is why we need 
to pass the 21st Century Cures bill—for 
all the good it will do in addition to 
these important reforms in dealing 
with mental health challenges around 
the country. So I look forward to finishing 
the job next week and sending it 
to the President’s desk. 

f 

MILITARY READINESS 

Mr. CORNYN. Separately, Madam 
President, I come to the floor today to 
highlight a pressing national security 
concern that just doesn’t get enough 
attention. Members often come to the 
floor to talk about specific military 

threats that other nations pose to the 
United States, and that is good and 
right. For example, we have heard a lot 
about Iran this week as the Senate 
considers the Iran Sanctions Extension 
Act—a bill that will help ensure that 
President-Elect Trump and future 
Presidents will have the authority they 
need to reimpose sanctions on Iran, 
even in spite of President Obama’s 
flawed nuclear deal which provided relief 
from these same types of sanctions 
and others without getting a whole lot 
of meaningful concessions from Tehran 
in return. This bill passed the House a 
few weeks ago with more than 400 
votes, and I am glad there has been significant 
bipartisan support to move it 
forward here. 

But today I want to talk about a 
problem that is partly of our own making, 
and that is threats to our long-
term military readiness. It is no secret 
that our military leaders continually 
call on Congress to adequately fund the 
weapons programs that enable our 
troops to defend our Nation. 

The major concern I have and one 
that is shared by leadership at the Pentagon 
is that our military’s technological 
edge on the battlefield is being 
whittled away by other countries, such 
as China and Russia, that are working 
at breakneck speed, investing millions 
of dollars to erase our advantage in 
many areas of military capability. 
That means we have to wake up to the 
risks that are inherent in this situation 
and do more to invest in the next 
generation of weapons to meet the 
challenges on the battlefields of tomorrow. 
The nations that are most belligerent 
and hostile to America and our 
interests are not cutting back on their 
investment in military technology, so 
we simply do not have the luxury of 
being complacent. 

Recently, I had a chance to meet 
with Under Secretary of Defense Frank 
Kendall, the Defense Department’s top 
acquisitions person or top weapons 
buyer. He is charged with equipping 
our men and women in uniform, and he 
has been thinking long and hard about 
the need to get the next generation of 
our military the very best capabilities 
possible. As he has said publicly in 
speeches and in congressional testimony, 
he is concerned that our enemies 
are rapidly expanding and building 
out their technological innovations 
for military applications. 

But it is important to understand 
that these countries aren’t just building 
up their own militaries to simply 
defend themselves; countries such as 
China and Russia are doing all they 
can to invest in specific technologies 
to defeat our forces and to be used for 
purposes of aggressive activity, whether 
it is in the South China Sea or in 
Europe, where Russia continues to 
threaten the NATO alliance. Countries 
such as China and Russia are preparing 
not for next week but for the coming 
decades to effectively counter and defeat 
the U.S. militarily. That is a big 
concern of Secretary Kendall, and it 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6641 

should be a major concern for all of us 
here in light of the responsibility of 
Congress to provide for our military. 

I have a chart that helps explain 
where we are headed. Here we can see 
the research and development projections 
for the United States, China, and 
the European Union. It is not hard to 
see that China will soon outpace the 
United States. 

This represents total research and 
development spending for the countries 
involved—not just in military R&D, 
but given the fact that a large percentage 
of research and development is 
spent on defense-related efforts, on 
military weaponry, it is a useful bellwether 
for understanding what the future 
holds in terms of Chinese and Russian 
military investment relative to 
our own. Clearly, we can see that China 
is on track to overtake the United 
States in this critical area in the next 
decade. 

I should also point out that, according 
to one report, this isn’t just because 
China is so committed to research 
and development; it is also because 
in recent years, due to austerity 
measures in our own country, U.S. investment 
in research and development 
is increasing at a historically low rate. 

Why is this important? Well, it is important 
because China is using some of 
this R&D to make weapons that are designed 
to undermine interests of the 
United States in the Asia-Pacific region. 
One recent study made headlines 
just this week, highlighting that both 
China and Russia are developing high-
speed, high-altitude weapons designed 
to penetrate traditional U.S. defensive 
systems, such as our ballistic missile 
defenses, to attack not only our allies 
but to potentially attack the mainland 
of the United States as well. 

Reports continue to surface about 
Chinese cyber theft of top U.S. military 
and industry secrets. Once they 
have stolen our trade secrets, the Chinese 
military can create copycat or 
cloned weapons for their own use without 
having to invest the years and billions 
of dollars that we have to in this 
country for research and testing and 
development of those weapons. They 
can simply steal the blueprints and 
copy them, saving themselves a lot of 
money and a lot of time in producing 
those weapons. 

So while nations like China are doing 
all they can to build their capabilities 
and research the next cutting-edge 
weapons, the U.S. military is extremely 
limited in the amount of 
money we are investing in our own future, 
instead having to spend that 
money to maintain the readiness of 
current forces. That is where the 
money has gone—to try to maintain 
the readiness of our current forces, not 
looking out to the next 5 and 10 years, 
to the growing threat of our adversaries 
having weapon systems that will 
have the capability not only to be used 
offensively but potentially to defeat 
American forces around the world. 

We know we need a robust military 
budget in order to allow us to walk and 

chew gum at the same time—to both 
maintain these world-class forces at 
high levels of readiness and ensure our 
troops have the cutting-edge weapons 
of tomorrow. Back in March, the Committee 
on Armed Services heard testimony 
by current Secretary of Defense 
Ash Carter. At the end of his prepared 
remarks, Secretary Carter made a 
point we all need to better understand. 
He said: 

We don’t have the luxury of just one opponent, 
or the choice between the current fight 
and future fights—we have to do both, and 
we have to have a budget that supports both. 

He went on to explain that means 
being ready to fight the battles of 
today and train our current troops but 
also to develop the technologies and 
perfect the strategies to fight the wars 
of the future. And we know from Ronald 
Reagan’s doctrine of peace through 
strength that military readiness is 
much more likely to make sure that we 
don’t have to fight those battles because 
it deters the aggressive actions 
of our adversaries when America leads 
and when America is the strongest 
military in the world. But when our opponents 
see us pulling back, both in 
terms of our investment and in terms 
of American leadership, they are all 
too happy to fill the void left by that 
withdrawal. 

Unfortunately, the Obama administration 
has apparently failed to see 
that national defense is the most critical 
function the Federal Government 
performs, and so every time we get into 
this discussion about how do we spend 
more money to keep the American people 
safe and secure, they want to enter 
into a discussion about how we can 
raise spending caps so we can spend 
more money on nondefense discretionary 
spending, and so it goes. 

I believe that defense spending— 
making sure our men and women in 
uniform have the training and equipment 
they need for the current fight 
but also that we are preparing for the 
mid- and long-term so they will have 
the weapons and resources they need to 
fight the fights of the future—is job 
No. 1 for us here in the Congress. 

It is not too late to eliminate some of 
these spending caps and to adequately 
fund the Department of Defense. I look 
forward to working with all of our colleagues 
to make sure we take care of 
job No. 1 before we then look to other 
priorities in our Federal budget. 

We can’t take for granted the fact 
that the U.S. military is the best in the 
world. We are the best in the world, but 
there is no certainty or guarantee that 
will always be the case, especially 
when our adversaries are making investments 
for the future and as America’s 
leadership pulls back out of the 
world and allows others to fill that 
void. There are other nations at our 
heels spending a lot of money specifically 
to neutralize our military advantages 
and defeat us. The threat extends 
far beyond China. North Korea, for example, 
continues to threaten us and 
our allies with their nuclear weapons 

and their missile tests. As I indicated 
earlier, Russia continues to make tremendous 
advancements in areas such 
as cyber and electronic warfare, working 
to render our most effective and advanced 
capabilities ineffective. 

We don’t have any time to waste, and 
we have to spend more time and more 
energy looking not just at the threats 
of today but those of tomorrow and beyond. 
Frankly, once the threat is upon 
us, it may be too late to do the sort of 
research and development and investment 
we need in order to be prepared. 

So I am hopeful that the next Congress, 
working with the new administration, 
will be able to move the needle 
in the right direction. We certainly 
can’t just cross our fingers and hope 
for the best. That is not fulfilling our 
responsibilities and doing our duty as 
Members of the Congress. If we want to 
maintain our position as the most capable 
military in the world, we have to 
continue to act, and act without delay. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Connecticut. 

f 

IRAN SANCTIONS EXTENSION BILL 
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam President, 
the Senate will soon act on a 
measure, the Iran Sanctions Extension 
Act, that I have long advocated, and I 
am proud to be a main cosponsor of 
this measure. It is a critical step toward 
deterring and impeding support of 
Iran’s development of conventional 
weapons and weapons of mass destruction. 
I am here to encourage my colleagues 
to support this 10-year reauthorization 
of the ISA, as it is known. We must act 
before it expires, before the end of the 
year. We really have no practical 
choice. The practical effect of the Iran 
nuclear agreement depends on our resolve 
and on our commitment to reliably 
and durably stop a nuclear-armed 
Iran by using sanctions and other 
means, if necessary. This measure 
should remove all doubt and dispel all 
question that we have that resolve and 
commitment to make sure the Iran nuclear 
commitment is enforced effectively. 
It must be enforced effectively 
not only for our own security but really 
the entire world’s security. That is 
the reason I have championed efforts to 
stop a nuclear-armed Iran and make 
sure this agreement is both verifiable 
and enforceable. 
I have long advocated for this renewal 
and most recently urged Leader 
MCCONNELL to prioritize passage of this 
measure in the waning days of this 
Congress. I was joined in this effort by 
Senators STABENOW, MERKLEY, WYDEN, 
KLOBUCHAR, HEINRICH, and SCHATZ. I 
thank Senator MCCONNELL for following 
through on this request and 
bringing this bill to the floor for a vote 
today. 
This important bipartisan bill has already 
been approved by the House—in 
fact, overwhelmingly passed in November—
and now the Senate must do the 


S6642 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

same. It must leave no question or 
doubt that we have the resolve and 
commitment to continue bipartisan 
support for efforts to block a nuclear-
armed Iran. 

The ISA is essential to ensuring that 
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
continues to prevent Iran from realizing 
its nuclear ambitions. For the 
United States to maintain its unambiguous 
ability to immediately snap back 
sanctions in coming years, the ISA 
must be renewed—and I hope it will be 
by a strong and overwhelming bipartisan 
majority—or we will surrender 
this critical capability. 

Reauthorization is a significant step 
that will send a strong signal to Iran 
that our Nation is fully and irrevocably 
committed to vigorously enforcing 
the nuclear agreement regardless of 
the administration and irrespective of 
the Congress. Future administrations 
need this ability to snap back existing 
sanctions—a step necessary for its enforcement, 
consistent with the agreement 
and anticipated by it. There is 
nothing inconsistent in what we do 
today with the agreement. 

This strong message to Iran is that 
we are ready, willing, and able to hold 
Iran accountable. We can ill-afford to 
allow sanctions that deter and impede 
Iran’s development of conventional 
weapons of mass destruction to expire, 
as they would expire at the end of the 
year. My hope is that as many as possible 
of my Senate colleagues will join 
in this effort today. 

But holding Iran accountable will 
scarcely end here. We must confront 
Iran’s maligned activities beyond its 
nuclear program, its continued pursuit 
of intercontinental missile development, 
its suppression of free speech and 
other vital civil liberties in its own 
country, and, of course, its sponsorship 
of terrorism around the world. We 
must fortify the security of our allies 
in the Middle East, most especially 
Israel, and our Nation. Our major strategic 
partner in that region is Israel. I 
look forward to working with my colleagues 
on the NDAA, which will provide 
additional missile defense capabilities 
to that great ally. And we must 
see what we do today in renewing the 
Iran sanctions agreement as part of an 
overall effort to secure the freedom 
and democracies that exist in that region 
insofar as they are always threatened 
and make sure we protect our Nation 
from a nuclear-armed Iran. 

The Iran sanctions renewal sends a 
signal and a message, unmistakable to 
Iran and the world, that we are committed 
not just to the words of this 
agreement on paper but to the real enforcement 
of them and to making sure 
Iran is held accountable if it violates 
this agreement in the slightest way. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 

Mr. KIRK. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. KIRK. Madam President, on December 
1, 2011, the Senate voted 100 to 
0 to pass the Menendez-Kirk amendment 
to impose crippling sanctions on 
the Central Bank of Iran. As this chart 
shows, the Menendez-Kirk amendment 
decreased the value of Iran’s currency 
by 73 percent the following year. 

On November 30, 2012, the Senate 
passed the second Menendez-Kirk 
amendment by a 94 to 0 vote. This 
amendment cut off Iran’s energy and 
shipping sectors from international 
markets. It also restricted Iran’s ability 
to barter in gold and other precious 
metals. These Iran sanctions played an 
indispensable role in forcing Iran to 
the negotiating table, but the administration 
wasted our powerful economic 
leverage when it agreed to a bad deal 
with Iran. 

Since this disastrous deal, Iran’s behavior 
has worsened. Iran has taken 
more American hostages, including 
Baquer Namazi and Reza Shahini. Iran 
received over $100 billion in sanctions 
relief and has increased support to terrorists 
groups, such as Hezbollah and 
Hamas. In fact, Iran announced the 
creation of its own foreign service to 
cause problems in Yemen, Iraq, and 
Iran and those places. Iran has conducted 
multiple missile tests on October 
15, 2015; October 21, 2015; March 8 
and 9, 2016; April 19, 2016; and July 11, 
2016. 

In June of 2015, Senator MENENDEZ 
and I introduced S. 1682, a bill to renew 
the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 for 10 
more years. I am glad to see the Senate 
is again taking up a similar bill based 
on legislation by Congressman ED 
ROYCE that passed the House by 419 to 
1. 

I urge my colleagues to support the 
Iran sanctions bill with overwhelming 
numbers. President Obama should immediately 
sign the Iran Sanctions Extension 
Act into law. 

I urge the next President to join with 
the Congress to do much more. Our 
children should never be asked to clean 
up a nuclear war in the Persian Gulf. 
Iran, which is the biggest sponsor of 
world terrorism, should not have nuclear 
weapons. 

I thank the Presiding Officer and 
yield back my time. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Michigan. 

Mr. PETERS. Madam President, I 
rise to express my support for legislation 
that the Senate is considering 
today that will extend the Iran Sanctions 
Act for 10 years before it expires 
in just 30 days. 

I will be voting for this bill later 
today, and I am proud to have cosponsored 
similar legislation earlier this 
year. The Iran Sanctions Act, or ISA, 
is an important aspect of U.S. sanctions 
on Iran. 

The ISA was enacted in 1996 to tighten 
sanctions on Iran in response to its 

growing nuclear program and support 
for terrorist organizations, such as 
Hamas and Hezbollah. The ISA provides 
the legislative authority for 
many of the sanctions on Iran that 
were lifted but may be reimplemented 
if Iran violates the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action, or JCPOA. These 
include sanctions on foreign investment 
in Iran’s oil and gas fields, sales 
of gasoline to Iran, and transportation 
of Iranian crude oil. Even though these 
sanctions were suspended by the 
JCPOA, we need this legal framework 
to address any Iranian violations of the 
deal so that sanctions can be rapidly 
put back in place if necessary. 

Additionally, this framework maintains 
some sanctions that were not lifted 
under the JCPOA. The ISA still requires 
the United States to sanction 
entities that assist Iran with acquiring 
or developing weapons of mass destruction—
that provide ‘‘destabilizing numbers 
and types’’ of advanced conventional 
weapons or participate in uranium 
mining ventures with Iran. 

These provisions remain in place, and 
it is absolutely critical that Congress 
not allow them to expire at the end of 
the year. 

I believe the Iran Sanctions Act has 
been effective and must be renewed. 
Tough sanctions were absolutely critical 
to bringing Iran to the negotiating 
table—sanctions such as those in the 
ISA and the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 
Accountability, and Divestment 
Act of 2010, which I voted for as a Member 
of the U.S. House of Representatives. 


The JCPOA is the result of these and 
other tough multilateral sanctions put 
in place through cooperation with 
international partners, but it is essential 
that the deal is strictly enforced. 

Earlier this year, I led a letter to 
President Obama, along with 14 of my 
colleagues, to express our concern 
about the lack of technical details published 
by the International Atomic Energy 
Agency, or IAEA, in reports on 
Iran’s compliance with the JCPOA. 

While the IAEA is the watchdog responsible 
for monitoring Iran’s compliance 
with the JCPOA, it is up to the 
United States and other parties of the 
JCPOA to respond to any violations. 

To ensure strict compliance, the 
IAEA should also publish technical details, 
including the total quantity of 
low-enriched uranium in Iran and the 
amount produced in Natanz, specifics 
on Iran’s centrifuge research and development, 
and progress made on converting 
Iran’s nuclear facilities. These 
details will provide independent experts 
and Members of Congress conducting 
oversight of the JCPOA the opportunity 
to renew the data behind the 
IAEA’s analysis. 

Iran opposes what we are doing here 
today, and they will say that renewing 
the Iran Sanctions Act is a violation of 
the JCPOA. Well, let me say, that is 
simply not true. Reauthorization of the 
Iran Sanctions Act in no way violates 
the JCPOA. The Iran Sanctions Act has 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6643 

been the law of the land since 1996. It 
was in place when the JCPOA was 
adopted, and it remains in effect today. 

With our vote today, Congress will 
make clear that the United States will 
not hesitate to maintain sanctions on 
Iran and those that seek to provide the 
world’s largest State sponsor of terrorism 
with weapons of mass destruction. 
We stand ready to impose rapid 
and strict punishments for any violation 
of the JCPOA. This sanctions regime 
is how we hold Iran accountable, 
strengthen our security, and deter Iranian 
hostility towards our allies, especially 
the State of Israel, which Iran 
has singled out as a target for destruction. 


Diplomacy is always our preferred 
course of action, but it does not work 
in a vacuum. It only works if it is 
backed up with credible deterrence. 

Today we show that the United 
States will continue our leadership 
against Iranian aggression—work that 
must continue in the years ahead. 

Madam President, I yield the floor. 

Mr. BROWN. Madam President, continued 
implementation of the Iran nuclear 
agreement, known as the Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action, JCPOA, 
is our best shot at stopping Iran from 
developing a nuclear weapon. And so 
far at least, that agreement has been 
working. 

The Iranians are fulfilling their 
JCPOA commitments. And so we must 
also maintain our commitment both to 
the letter and to the spirit of this historic 
agreement. Assuming Iran continues 
to comply, the agreement can 
and should last for many years. I know 
many have noted President-Elect 
Trump’s negative comments about renegotiating 
its terms or even scrapping 
it outright. I suspect—at least I hope— 
that once he learns more about the actual 
national security consequences of 
scrapping the agreement—of which we 
were all reminded yesterday by CIA Director 
John Brennan—he may reconsider. 


We know Iran is a state sponsor of 
terrorism, that it destabilizes the region 
and violates the human rights of 
its people. That is why Western policymakers 
agreed to separate out and try 
to secure agreement on this one discrete 
issue. They knew an Iran with a 
nuclear weapon would be especially 
dangerous—to us, to Israel, and to the 
region. 

In fact, it is important to keep in 
mind that this whole process began in 
the Bush administration, with a Republican 
President who was—in the 
wake of the Iraq War—willing to engage 
Iran diplomatically. The Bush administration 
laid the foundation for 
what eventually became the Iran Nuclear 
Agreement—sanctions relief in 
return for strict limits on Iran’s nuclear 
program. 

In June 2008, President Bush’s National 
Security Adviser Condoleezza 
Rice signed a memorandum with the 
P5+1, which said that, in return for 
Iran doing key things to limit its nu


clear program, the U.S. was ready to 
recognize Iran’s right to nuclear energy 
for peaceful purposes; treat Iran’s 
nuclear program like any nonnuclear 
weapons state party to the nonproliferation 
treaty, if international 
confidence in the peaceful nature of its 
program could be restored; provide 
technical and financial aid for peaceful 
nuclear energy; and work with Iran on 
confidence-building measures, begin to 
normalize trade and economic relations, 
and allow for civil aviation cooperation. 


All of this should sound familiar because 
it was effectively the early outline 
of the Iran Nuclear Agreement. 

As you know, the scope of the sanctions 
relief provided to Iran under the 
JCPOA is explicitly limited to nuclear-
related sanctions. The United States 
continues to enforce vigorously a variety 
of nonnuclear sanctions against 
Iran, including for ballistic missile violations, 
human rights abuses, and acts 
of state-supported terrorism. Our primary 
trade embargo against Iran remains 
largely intact. Thus, our ability 
to maintain sanctions pressure on Iran 
has been preserved, even as we secured 
an agreement to prevent a state sponsor 
of terrorism from acquiring a nuclear 
weapon. 

Today we are debating a simple 10-
year extension of the Iran Sanctions 
Act. Strictly speaking, extension of the 
act is not legally necessary to continue 
to enforce our existing sanctions 
against Iran. As administration officials 
have testified before the Banking 
Committee and elsewhere, the International 
Emergency Economic Powers 
Act and other authorities provide all of 
the tools that we would need in order 
to keep the pressure on Iran—or even 
to ratchet up the pressure incrementally, 
if warranted. 

But I believe that extending it today 
is important for two reasons. First, it 
is a signal of our resolve to keep the 
heat on Iran and its leaders and to ensure 
that, if they stray from the agreement 
through any significant violations, 
together with our partners in 
Europe, we would respond forcefully— 
including if necessary by immediately 
snapback sanctions on Iran. And second, 
today’s action will make even 
clearer that we will continue to enforce 
the nonnuclear sanctions on Iran related 
to terrorism and ballistic missiles 
and human rights violations. 

As we consider extension of the Iran 
Sanctions Act today, I hope that we 
will keep in mind what is truly necessary 
in order to maintain our current 
sanctions architecture. The JCPOA 
was a groundbreaking agreement designed 
to prevent Iran from obtaining a 
weapon of mass destruction—but it is 
also a relatively new and somewhat 
fragile agreement. We should be very 
careful, going forward, not to violate 
the terms of the JCPOA by simply imposing 
under another guise the old 
sanctions that were waived or suspended 
under the nuclear agreement. If 
that were to happen, our success in 

preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear 
weapon could be unwound in a 
matter of weeks—or even days. And 
then we would be isolated internationally, 
instead of Iran being isolated as 
the outlier by the international community, 
as it was under the JCPOA. 

Our debate today sends an important 
signal to Iran: We resolve to continue 
our fight against terrorism worldwide, 
to counter Iran’s moves to further destabilize 
the Middle East region, and to 
impose consequences for the grave 
human rights abuses that, sadly, continue 
in Iran to this day. Of course, in 
addition to renewing these sanctions 
and maintaining tough JCPOA oversight, 
Congress must also continue to 
support robust military and other aid 
to regional partners like Israel. We 
should focus both on ensuring strict 
implementation of the agreement and 
on the most effective ways to pressure 
Iran’s leaders to change their destabilizing 
behaviors in the region. 

There is no question of our willingness 
to maintain our current Iran sanctions 
architecture. We can and we will 
continue to vigorously enforce nonnuclear 
sanctions against Iran. And I 
believe we presently have all of the 
tools we need to do so. I urge my colleagues 
to support this measure. 

Mr. PETERS. I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. 
ERNST). The clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, 
I ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

21ST CENTURY CURES BILL 
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, 
I come today to the Senate floor to 
offer congratulations to the U.S. House 
of Representatives because last night, 
in an overwhelming vote, they passed 
what Senate Majority Leader MITCH 
MCCONNELL has described as the single 
most important piece of legislation the 
Congress is likely to enact this year. 
I am referring to the 21st Century 
Cures Act, combined with the mental 
health bill, which is the most significant 
set of reforms of major mental 
health programs in 10 years. The Cures 
package is the result of bipartisan 
work over the last 2 years. Its purpose 
is to move cures and treatments 
through the expensive development 
process and the extensive regulatory 
process and into the medicine cabinets 
and doctors’ offices of America more 
rapidly and safely at the same time. 
That also helps to lower costs, and we 
hear a great deal of talk about the affordability 
of prescription medicines. If 
it takes more than 10 or 15 years and 
more than $1 billion to develop a drug, 
such as a treatment for Alzheimer’s, 
that all adds to the final cost. We 
would like to lower that cost and speed 
that time up as long as we continue to 
do it safely. 


S6644 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

I wish to especially compliment the 
chairman of the House committee that 
worked on this, Chairman FRED UPTON, 
as well as Congressman PALLONE and 
Congresswoman DEGETTE, Democratic 
Members of the House of Representatives. 
They have worked with Senator 
MURRAY, the ranking Democrat on the 
Senate’s HELP Committee, and with 
me for the last 2 years on a very complex 
but very important bill. 

Part of the bill has to do with money, 
and one part of that is $1 billion of 
funding for State grants for opioids. 
Now, I suspect one reason there was 
such a large vote in the House of Representatives 
yesterday—only 26 Members 
voted no and 392 voted yes—was 
because of this $1 billion for opioids. At 
least in Tennessee—and I am sure it is 
true in most States of the country— 
there is no more urgent epidemic than 
opioid misuse. It is filling up the 
courts. It is filling up the jails. It is 
filling up the hospitals. It is causing 
tragedies in families all across America. 


The Senate passed important legislation 
earlier this year on programs authorizing 
new money, but this is the 
money for State grants to Iowa, to 
Tennessee, to California, and to every 
State to help deal with the opioid epidemic 
abuse. So I suspect that one reason 
so many Members of the House 
voted yes yesterday and so few voted 
no would be that it would be pretty 
hard to explain a ‘‘no’’ vote against $1 
billion of State grants for opioid abuse. 

There is also $4.8 billion of funding 
for the National Institutes of Health, 
which Francis Collins, the distinguished 
Director, calls the ‘‘national 
institutes of hope,’’ and there is $1.8 
billion for the Cancer Moonshot led by 
Vice President BIDEN. There is $1.4 for 
the Precision Medicine Initiative, or 
personalized medicine initiative, a special 
project of President Obama, and 
$1.6 billion is for the BRAIN Initiative. 
There are remarkable advances being 
made in the ability to identify Alzheimer’s 
before symptoms are evident 
and then to slow its progression. It is 
hard to imagine how much grief that 
would end and the billions it would 
save if we could do that. So those are 
other reasons why there are only 26 
Members of the House of Representatives 
who voted no yesterday and 392 
who voted yes. 

The Mayo Clinic has sent a letter to 
me: 

On behalf of the Mayo Clinic, I write in enthusiastic 
support of the 21st Century Cures 
Act and salute your strong, bipartisan leadership 
on this essential legislation. 

We are pleased to see the inclusion of dedicated 
streaming funds for the Food and Drug 
Administration and National Institutes of 
Health. . . . 

I ask unanimous consent that this 
letter be printed in the RECORD following 
my remarks. 

So next Monday the Senate will have 
a chance to see whether we can do as 
well as the House of Representatives. I 
ask my colleagues to think long and 

hard about a big vote. We need a big 
vote. Let me give my colleagues one 
reason especially why. This $6.3 billion 
that is in the 21st Century Cures bill is 
designated for opioids, for precision 
medicine, for cancer, for brain, and for 
FDA, and it has to be approved every 
year by a vote. That is the way our appropriations 
process works. I would say 
to my Democratic friends as well as to 
my Republican friends that if you are 
concerned about whether the $6.3 billion 
will be available next year and the 
next year, the best way to ensure that 
it is will be to cast a big vote on Monday 
for it this year, because it will be 
very hard to explain, if you vote for 
$6.3 billion this year spread over the 
next few years, why you did not vote to 
support it next year and the following 
year. 

The big vote in the House should give 
assurance to Democrats as well as Republicans 
in the Senate that these are 
real dollars, that they are provided in a 
fundamentally responsible way. To Republicans 
who look at the $6.3 billion 
and say: I like the idea of funding 
opioids; I like the idea of improving 
funding for the National Institutes of 
Health, let me say that this is done in 
a responsible way. 

Speaker RYAN, who everybody knows 
is a conservative budget hawk, created 
the mechanism for this funding. It was 
approved by TOM PRICE, the House 
Budget Committee chairman. It goes 
like this: $6.3 billion over the next several 
years for these dedicated purposes. 
It can only be spent for those purposes. 
It has to be approved every year. It 
does not increase the overall spending 
of the budget by one penny because it 
is offset by reductions in mandatory 
spending on the other side. So $6.3 billion 
up here and $6.3 billion down there 
over the next 10 years. 

So this is a compromise, but it is a 
magnificent compromise. It is, as Senator 
MCCONNELL has said, the most important 
piece of legislation we will deal 
with this year. The House passed it 
with a huge bipartisan vote: 392 to 26. I 
hope that we in the Senate do just as 
well next Monday because the real winners 
will be the American people as 
they look forward to treatments for 
Alzheimer’s, for cancer, a vaccine for 
Zika, a non-addictive pain medicine 
that will help deal with the opioid misuse 
epidemic, and regenerative medicine, 
which may help restore hearts 
and perhaps even eyesight in miraculous 
ways. 

This is truly an exciting time, and 
this is truly an effective piece of legislation 
that deserves our support by 
coming to the floor on Monday and 
then by passing it on Tuesday or 
Wednesday. 

There being no objection, the material 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 

MAYO CLINIC, 

Rochester, MN, November 30, 2016. 

Sen. LAMAR ALEXANDER, 

Washington, DC. 

DEAR SENATOR ALEXANDER: On behalf of 
Mayo Clinic, I write in enthusiastic support 

of the 21st Century Cures Act and salute 
your strong, bipartisan leadership on this essential 
legislation. 

Efforts to advance biomedical innovation 
and accelerate the development and delivery 
of cures are of great importance to Mayo 
Clinic and our patients. We are pleased to see 
the inclusion of dedicated funding streams 
for the Food and Drug Administration and 
National Institutes of Health—including 
funds for research efforts such as the President’s 
Precision Medicine initiative, the 
Vice President’s Cancer Moonshot, and the 
BRAIN initiative to speed diagnosis and 
treatment of conditions such as Alzheimer’s 
disease. 

In addition, provisions to promote administrative 
streamlining, telehealth efforts and 
mental health reform are also of critical importance 
in allowing Mayo Clinic physicians 
and researchers to provide the best possible 
care to patients. 

Mayo Clinic is grateful for your leadership, 
wholeheartedly supports this comprehensive 
legislation and looks forward to this innovative 
effort being signed into law, and we 
pledge to be a committed partner in its implementation. 
Thank you. 

With best regards, 

JOHN H. NOSEWORTHY, M.D., 

President & CEO. 

Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President, 
I thank the Presiding Officer, and I 
yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. COATS. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

WASTEFUL SPENDING 
Mr. COATS. Madam President, today 
marks the 54th version of ‘‘Waste of 
the Week’’—54 times I have been down 
here in the Senate to highlight documented 
examples of waste, fraud, and 
abuse. When I first started this endeavor, 
I told my staff: I hope we can reach 
$100 billion or so—some target. Do you 
think there is that much waste, fraud, 
and abuse floating around through the 
Federal Government? 
Well, we hit that $100 billion a long 
time ago—I think about the 20th 
week—and we now have moved to a 
pretty staggering number, which is 
more than one-third of a trillion dollars 
of waste that has been documented 
by independent agencies of the government 
that are supporting us with information 
as to why this money should 
not have been spent or how it was 
wasted or lost through fraud or abuse. 
I have had a number of serious issues 
here that run into the billions of dollars 
that could easily be fixed. Some of 
them we started by pointing this out 
with legislation to try to fix these 
things, but it just keeps piling on here. 
So every once in a while, I throw in 
something so ridiculous, people will 
understand the fact that there may 
have been some benefit to that program—
we don’t understand what the 
benefit was—but surely these ridiculous 
examples of money spent, hard-


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6645 

earned tax money spent, are not used 
for this purpose. Tell me it is not true. 
Unfortunately, it is true. So today I 
am adding two more examples of something 
where people say: How can this 
be possible? The total ends up at about 
another $1.5 million. 

One of the studies funded by grants 
from the National Science Foundation 
totaled $1.3 million. The researcher’s 
application stated they would use the 
grant funds to examine a variety of 
factors, one of which was, how does humidity 
affect the heat that we feel? So, 
you know, if you go to Florida and it is 
90 degrees, you have to shower three 
times a day. You are sweating, and it 
feels like it is 110, but the temperature 
says 90. If you go to Arizona and it is 
90 degrees, you don’t have to take a 
shower at all because you can go out 
and take a run, and it is so dry, you 
don’t feel that heat you would feel in 
Florida. 

I have the same situation in Indiana. 
Northern Indiana is up near the Great 
Lakes. It is much cooler and has lower 
humidity than Southern Indiana, 
which lies down along the Ohio River. 
So it can be the same temperature 
down in southern Indiana as northern 
Indiana, but people really feel that it is 
different. 

I think we all know this. We have all 
experienced this through summers, 
through dry days and through humid 
days. But, no, the National Science 
Foundation said: We need a study. 
Let’s give a grant for someone who has 
made an application—$1.3 million—to 
see if we can prove that humidity 
makes it feel as though it is a lot hotter. 


So that is what they did. Folks, I 
can’t make this up. This is true. In 
their initial study, they took beer cans 
and koozies. Do you know what koozies 
are? Koozies are those things that you 
wrap around a cold bottle of Coca Cola 
or a cold bottle of beer or a can of this 
or that in order to keep it cold. They 
put these beer cans in koozies to see if 
that would be successful in moderating 
the humidity or what it would do to it. 

The researcher’s initial round of testing 
was done in a basement bathroom, 
where researchers adjusted the temperature 
and humidity by turning on a 
hot-water shower and a space heater. 

Now, you think, OK, NSF gave us $1.3 
million to try to put a study together. 
You would think they would go to 
some kind of lab and get sophisticated 
equipment and so forth. Instead, they 
went down into the basement bathroom, 
shut the door, and turned on the 
shower, hot water. That wasn’t enough, 
so they put a space heater in there to 
heat it up. Guess what. The koozies 
worked. 

Well, when you go buy a product this 
winter at Christmastime, everybody is 
going to go out and buy stuff. Companies 
will test something that they 
want to sell, that they think is going 
to be bought by the American people. 
They are successful. Do we have to provide 
a government grant to help deter


mine whether this works? Can’t we just 
go to the company and say: Hey, you 
developed this. What were your studies? 
What did you learn? 

Anyway, that was $1.3 million. I 
think we have a photo. Here it is. Here, 
essentially, is what $1.3 million bought. 
They got a little something to measure 
with, and they put a can over this—-
looks like Gatorade or some kind of 
Powerade or whatever. I suppose the 
money went to buy some of this equipment 
here to test that. But does the 
taxpayer have to do this? Is $1.38 million 
of money taken from taxpayers’ 
paychecks—is that what it is used for? 
Well, I guess this is great news for beverage 
drinkers, but it is mind-boggling 
that we spend that kind of money. 

The second thing I would highlight 
here is another study, this one by 
DARPA. DARPA is the Federal Defense 
Advanced Research Projects Agency. 
For over 50 years—and I admire this 
Agency—it has done a lot of good 
things. This little-known Agency 
states that it is held to a singular and 
enduring mission that is on their literature: 
to make pivotal investments 
in breakthrough technologies for national 
security purposes. That is a 
needed, essential use of Federal dollars, 
to make sure that our warfighters 
have the kind of equipment and have 
the kind of research backing up what 
they are doing. So that is a legitimate 
expenditure. But why did DARPA decide 
that understanding why coffee 
sometimes spills when you are walking 
is a matter of national security? Now, 
maybe if the coffee is hot and it gets on 
the soldier’s hands or whatever—the 
Presiding Officer has had military experience. 
I am not sure that, as someone 
in command, you would authorize 
a study to see that if you were moving 
when you had a cup of coffee in your 
hand, you were more likely to spill the 
coffee than if you were standing still. 
Trust me, folks—that is what this 
study was all about. Here was the conclusion 
of the study: To prevent a spill, 
you need to pay attention to your coffee 
while you are walking because the 
movement might result in a spill. 

Now, a confession here. On my way to 
work—I drive in from Virginia. I have 
to go by a bakery shop on Lee Highway. 
I slip in there every morning—it 
has now become a habit; I have gotten 
to know the people—for a donut and a 
cup of coffee. But I don’t want to waste 
time trying to get to work, so I jump 
into the car and eat the donut and 
drink the coffee while I am trying to 
deal with traffic in Washington and get 
over the bridges and get to work. I 
have noticed over time that if I have to 
put the brakes on a little hard or start 
a little fast or make a quick turn, my 
coffee spills out of the cup. So all they 
would have had to do was to buy my 
coffee, and I could have proved to them 
that movement would require liquid to 
move also, and if they are worried 
about coffee spilling out of the cup, I 
could have proved that, and all they 
had to do was buy me a donut and a 
cup of coffee. 

Where does all of this come down? 
Where this all comes down is the fact 
that we are nearly $20 trillion in debt. 
We cannot balance our budget. We 
spend more every year than we take in. 
We have to go out and borrow that 
money, on which we then have to pay 
interest. By the way, interest rates are 
going up. When we are in this kind of 
a fiscal situation, can we not at least, 
as a body, stop this waste, fraud, and 
abuse and these stupid expenditures 
and ridiculous expenditures of taxpayer 
money? 

This here is just a drop in the bucket. 
We have much bigger things to do to 
save taxpayers’ dollars. But at the very 
least, could we not address the waste, 
abuse, and fraud that is taking place? I 
have offered legislation on a number of 
ways to do that. 

I know the majority leader is moving 
to the floor here and I need to wrap up, 
so I will. At the end of 54 times down 
here on the Senate floor, we have a 
total of $351,587,239,536 of documented, 
certified waste, fraud, and abuse. We 
wonder why the American people are 
fed up with the status quo of what is 
happening here in Washington. 

I yield the floor. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The majority 
leader. 

f 

TSUNAMI WARNING, EDUCATION, 
AND RESEARCH ACT OF 2015 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I ask the Chair to lay before the body 
the message to accompany H.R. 34. 

The Presiding Officer laid before the 
Senate the following message from the 
House of Representatives: 

Resolved, That the House agree to the 
amendment of the Senate to the bill (H.R. 34) 
entitled ‘‘An Act to authorize and strengthen 
the tsunami detection, forecast, warning, 
research, and mitigation program of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
and for other purposes’’, with an 
amendment. 

MOTION TO CONCUR 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I move to concur in the House amendment 
to the Senate amendment to H.R. 
34. 

CLOTURE MOTION 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I send a cloture motion to the desk on 
the motion to concur. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The cloture 
motion having been presented 
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the 
clerk to read the motion. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 
CLOTURE MOTION 
We, the undersigned Senators, in accordance 
with the provisions of rule XXII of the 
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby 
move to bring to a close debate on the motion 
to concur in the House amendment to 
the Senate amendment to H.R. 34, an act to 
authorize and strengthen the tsunami detection, 
forecast, warning, research, and mitigation 
program of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration, and for other 
purposes. 
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Bob 
Corker, Richard Burr, Pat Roberts, 


S6646 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, Lindsey Gra


ham, Lamar Alexander, John Cornyn, 

Chuck Grassley, Michael B. Enzi, John 

Barrasso, Shelley Moore Capito, John 

McCain, Bill Cassidy. 

MOTION TO CONCUR WITH AMENDMENT NO. 5117 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I move to concur in the House amendment 
to the Senate amendment to H.R. 
34, with a further amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCONNELL] 
moves to concur in the House amendment 
to the Senate amendment to H.R. 34 
with an amendment numbered 5117. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I ask unanimous consent that the reading 
of the amendment be dispensed 
with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

At the end add the following: 

‘‘This Act shall take effect 1 day after the 
date of enactment.’’ 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I ask for the yeas and nays on the motion 
to concur with the amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The yeas and nays were ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 5118 TO AMENDMENT NO. 5117 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I have a second-degree amendment at 
the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON


NELL] proposes an amendment numbered 5118 
to amendment No. 5117. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous 
consent that the reading of the amendment 
be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

Strike ‘‘1 day’’ and insert ‘‘2 days’’. 

MOTION TO REFER WITH AMENDMENT NO. 5119 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I move to refer the House message on 

H.R. 34 to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions with 
instructions to report back forthwith 
an amendment numbered 5119. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON


NELL] moves to refer the House message on 

H.R. 34 to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions with instructions 
to report back forthwith with an 
amendment numbered 5119. 
The amendment is as follows: 

At the end add the following: 

‘‘This Act shall take effect 3 days after the 
date of enactment.’’ 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I ask for the yeas and nays on my motion. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 
There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The yeas and nays were ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 5120 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I have an amendment to the instructions 
at the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCONNELL] 
proposes an amendment numbered 5120 
to the instructions of the motion to refer 
H.R. 34. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous 
consent that the reading of the amendment 
be dispensed with. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment is as follows: 

Strike ‘‘3 days’’ and insert ‘‘4 days’’. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I ask for the yeas and nays on my 
amendment. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 

There appears to be a sufficient second. 


The yeas and nays were ordered. 

AMENDMENT NO. 5121 TO AMENDMENT NO. 5120 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I have a second-degree amendment at 
the desk. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON


NELL] proposes an amendment numbered 5121 
to amendment No. 5120. 

The amendment is as follows: 

Strike ‘‘4’’ and insert ‘‘5’’. 

Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President, 
I ask unanimous consent that notwithstanding 
rule XXII, the cloture vote on 
the motion to concur occur at 5:30 p.m. 
on Monday, December 5. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

CONCLUSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning 
business is closed. 

f 

IRAN SANCTIONS EXTENSION ACT 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under 
the previous order, the Senate will proceed 
to the consideration of H.R. 6297, 
which the clerk will report. 
The legislative clerk read as follows: 
A bill (H.R. 6297) to reauthorize the Iran 
Sanctions Act of 1996. 
The bill was ordered to a third reading 
and was read the third time. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill 
having been read the third time, the 
question is, Shall the bill pass? 
Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, I 
ask for the yeas and nays. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a 
sufficient second? 
There appears to be a sufficient second. 
The clerk will call the roll. 
The bill clerk called the roll. 
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the 
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) 
is necessarily absent. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
HOEVEN). Are there any other Senators 
in the Chamber desiring to vote? 

The result was announced—yeas 99, 
nays 0, as follows: 
[Rollcall Vote No. 155 Leg.] 

YEAS—99 
Alexander Fischer Murphy 
Ayotte Flake Murray 
Baldwin Franken Nelson 
Barrasso Gardner Paul 
Bennet Gillibrand Perdue 
Blumenthal Graham Peters 
Blunt Grassley Portman 
Booker Hatch Reed 
Boozman Heinrich Reid 
Boxer Heitkamp Risch 
Brown Heller Roberts 
Burr Hirono Rounds 
Cantwell Hoeven Rubio 
Capito Inhofe Sasse 
Cardin Isakson Schatz 
Carper Johnson Schumer 
Casey Kaine Scott 
Cassidy King Sessions 
Coats Kirk Shaheen 
Cochran Klobuchar Shelby 
Collins Lankford Stabenow 
Coons Leahy Sullivan 
Corker Lee Tester 
Cornyn Manchin Thune 
Cotton Markey Tillis 
Crapo McCain Toomey 
Cruz McCaskill Udall 
Daines McConnell Vitter 
Donnelly Menendez Warner 
Durbin Merkley Warren 
Enzi Mikulski Whitehouse 
Ernst Moran Wicker 
Feinstein Murkowski Wyden 

NOT VOTING—1 

Sanders 

The bill (H.R. 6297) was passed. 

f 

TSUNAMI WARNING, EDUCATION, 

AND RESEARCH ACT OF 2015— 

Continued 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Georgia. 

FILLING THE SUPREME COURT VACANCY 

Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, I rise to 
discuss the vacancy of the U.S. Supreme 
Court. 

We have been on this issue and what 
needs to happen next year when our 
next President is sworn in. For months 
this year, I and other Members of this 
body held our ground in saying that 
the American people deserve a voice in 
this process. We talked about how the 
integrity of the advice and consent 
process, clearly outlined in article II, 
section 2 of the U.S. Constitution, was 
at stake. We outlined years of precedent 
against nominating and confirming 
a Supreme Court Justice during 
a Presidential election cycle. 

The last time a vacancy arose and a 
nominee was confirmed in a Presidential 
election year was 1932, and 1888 
was the last Presidential election year 
in which a Justice was nominated and 
confirmed by a divided government. 
Confirming a nominee to the U.S. Supreme 
Court should never be distorted 
by political theater of a Presidential 
election cycle. This is a bipartisan position. 
Both parties have said at different 
times in the past decade or so 
what I and many colleagues on this 
floor have said just this year. 

Since day one, I have consistently 
said that no Supreme Court nominee 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6647 

should be considered for the Supreme 
Court or considered by the Senate before 
the next President is sworn in. 
That also meant no consideration during 
the lameduck, either, no matter 
the outcome of the election. You can’t 
have it both ways. This was my position 
before the election. This is still 
my position today. It was and is about 
the principle, not the individual. As an 
outsider to the political process, this 
was a logical and an easy position to 
take from the very beginning. The 
process for nominating and confirming 
a Justice to the U.S. Supreme Court is 
enshrined in our Constitution. 

The hyperpartisanship and politics of 
a Presidential election cycle should 
have absolutely no place in this process. 
Confirming any individual to a 
lifetime appointment to the U.S. Supreme 
Court must rise from that kind 
of political posturing. It must be above 
any political theater. 

Furthermore, as I said previously, 
the American people deserved a voice 
in this process. Election day was not 
only about changing the direction of 
our country, but it was also a referendum 
on the ballots of the Supreme 
Court for generations to come. 

Our decision to withhold consent on 
any Supreme Court nominee, until 
after a new President is sworn in, protected 
the integrity of the advice-and-
consent process from political games in 
a heated Presidential campaign cycle. 
That decision was entirely within the 
rights and responsibilities of the Senate, 
as outlined in the Constitution. 

We did our job, and next year we are 
going to continue to do that job of advice 
and consent as we consider the 
next nomination for the Supreme 
Court. With a new President sworn in, 
it will be time for the Senate to confirm 
a nominee to the U.S. Supreme 
Court. The election is over. The people 
have spoken. Americans have elected a 
new President. They chose a new direction. 


I urge Members of this body to listen 
to them, and I urge this body to remember 
the integrity of the process. I 
also look forward to learning from 
whomever President-Elect Trump 
nominates to serve on the Supreme 
Court and having the opportunity to 
vote on his or her confirmation. 

I yield my time. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, since my 
arrival in the U.S. Senate a few years 
ago, I have been a proponent and advocate 
and have attempted to champion 
an issue many in the Senate care 
about; that is, the desire to increase 
America’s investment in medical research, 
increase the likelihood of out


comes that are desirable in improving 
every American’s well-being, and end 
the pain and heartache that comes 
with diagnoses that often end in difficult 
lives and ultimately death. We 
have worked hard as a Senate on this 
issue. 

I serve on the Appropriations Committee 
with the Presiding Officer. I 
serve on the appropriations subcommittee 
that funds the National Institutes 
of Health, and from my vantage 
point, it is clear to me that we 
have made a significant investment in 
increasing the amount of dollars that 
taxpayers pay to try to find those cures 
for cancer, eliminate the onset of Alzheimer’s, 
help with diabetes and mental 
health issues. 

Leadership has been busy for a number 
of months, and that hard work will 
culminate with a vote next week on 
the 21st Century Cures Act. It is an important 
component of this medical innovation 
I find so necessary for the 
benefit of Kansans, Americans, and for 
people who live around the globe. 

This Cures Act invests in the future 
of our country by providing a significant 
increase in Federal support for 
lifesaving biomedical research that 
will simply impact the life of every 
American—certainly every American 
family. These important investments 
range from increasing the funding at 
the National Institutes of Health, advancing 
the precision medicine initiative, 
funding important cancer research 
through the cancer Moonshot, 
and supporting the BRAIN Initiative to 
improve our understanding of diseases 
like Alzheimer’s. 

There are also provisions that will 
accelerate the FDA approval and drug 
development process as well as fight 
opioid abuse and suicides. 

The subcommittee the Presiding Officer 
and I serve on in the Appropriations 
Committee, or the subcommittee 
that deals with agriculture and the 
Food and Drug Administration, wants 
to give the FDA the tools necessary to 
accelerate the process by which lifesaving 
drugs and devices are available 
for Americans and citizens around the 
globe. 

Under the 21st Century Cures Act, 
the National Institutes of Health will 
receive a significant dollar investment 
increase over the next 10 years. We 
know that will drive research forward 
to develop a greater understanding of 
rare diseases. We often think about 
NIH as dealing with those major afflictions—
cancer and Alzheimer’s and diabetes—
but many Americans unfortunately 
suffer from rare diseases, and we 
want to help find the treatments that 
are patient-centric that treat rare diseases 
as well. 

This funding will send a message that 
we acknowledge the benefits of NIH research 
in a strong bipartisan way. This 
funding will also work in tandem with 
those increases that we have provided 
at NIH through the normal annual appropriations 
process. 

We have always given NIH the ability 
to prioritize their research that could 

result in the biggest bang for the buck, 
the most lifesaving opportunities, but 
obviously the more resources NIH has, 
the more opportunities they have to 
find those cures and advancements in 
treatments. 

This effort also supports the best and 
brightest among us—those researchers 
and scientists. I want young Kansans 
to have a future, if they are interested 
in science and mathematics and engineering 
and research, and an opportunity 
to pursue those careers, hopefully 
in our State, but certainly in this 
country. We want the United States to 
continue to be at the forefront of medical 
research and within the realm of 
science and engineering as well. This is 
an economic engine for our Nation. It 
can be and is an economic engine for 
my State. The Cures Act accelerates 
those opportunities for young people 
and others across the country who 
want to devote their lives toward a 
noble cause of making life longer, 
greater longevity, but also with fewer 
challenges and afflictions that come to 
many people who encounter disease. 

The burdens of diseases like Alzheimer’s, 
cancer, stroke, and mental 
illness can be lessened through research. 
A long time ago, well before the 
Affordable Care Act and ObamaCare, I 
sat down and put my thoughts on paper 
as to what we should do to try to reduce 
the cost of health care in this 
country. What can we do to reduce the 
price people have to pay to be insured? 
That list is long. In my view, the way 
to do this is incremental, but one of 
those increments is to invest in medical 
research. The amount of money 
that we can save if we can find the cure 
for cancer, if we can find the delay for 
the onset of Alzheimer’s, is certainly in 
the billions of dollars, and the investment 
in medical research helps us to 
save health care dollars, therefore 
helping us to make health insurance 
more affordable for all Americans. It 
certainly is an investment in economics, 
it is an investment in the ability to 
save money, as well as what we know 
about saving lives and making treatments 
available to people who otherwise 
would have less life enjoyment as 
a result of disease. 

New scientific findings are what 
yields breakthroughs that enable us to 
confront the staggering challenges of 
disease and illness, and we can do that 
through the Cures Act and the efforts 
we have made over the last several 
years to make certain that NIH has additional 
resources. 

When it comes to cancer, half of all 
men and a third of all women in the 
United States will develop cancer in 
their lifetime. This bill includes the 
Cancer Moonshot provision for $1.8 billion 
of funding. It seeks to combat 
those statistics to reduce the chances 
that somebody encounters cancer in 
their lives and to reduce the costs associated 
with it. This research will focus 
on accelerating cancer research and 
make more therapies more available to 


S6648 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

more people, to a wider range of patients, 
and improve our ability to detect 
cancers at earlier stages of its development 
and, hopefully, prevent that 
disease altogether. 

So cancer is front and center with 
the Moonshot and the Cures Act. 

For the Food and Drug Administration, 
an agency that I have learned 
more about in the last couple of years 
and have taken a greater interest in, 
we need to have reforms that are included 
in the Cures Act that target 
speeding up the FDA’s approval of new 
medicines and medical equipment. 

Pharmaceuticals have become a significant 
portion of how we treat disease. 
It used to be in the early days of 
my life, and certainly in my parents’ 
lives, that you went to the doctor and 
you were examined and you may be admitted 
to the hospital. So often today 
you are examined, and you are given a 
prescription. It is a way now that we 
treat patients. We have today a wider 
variety of opportunities that pharmaceuticals 
provide, and we need to make 
certain that the FDA has the resources, 
has the right mentality, the 
mindset—is not a bureaucratic organization—
that can advance the production 
of new drugs available to treat 
Americans with a wide array of options. 
This legislation brings a patient-
focused view to drug development that 
will be so relevant in the process of 
bringing forward the things we need to 
cure and treat Americans. 

Opioids have been a topic of conversation 
of this Senate for a number 
of months—for the last several years, 
in fact—and, unfortunately, millions 
across the country struggle with an addiction 
to opioids. It is a heartbreaking 
reality. The Presiding Officer and I 
come from rural States. We wish we 
could say that our States are immune, 
that it is a problem for folks in the cities 
or suburbs or someplace else. But, 
unfortunately, opioids and other drug 
addictions are a significant component 
of the challenges we face at home. We 
include in the Cures bill additional dollars 
to address the addiction issue, including 
prevention and treatment, prescription 
drug monitoring programs, 
and efforts to reform our current system. 


It is important that this legislation 
pass as a followup to the Comprehensive 
Addiction and Recovery Act, 
which I voted for earlier this year, to 
try to stop the spread of opioid abuse 
in communities across the country. 

I have started paying more attention 
to mental health issues at home as 
well, visiting our community mental 
health centers, visiting our State and 
mental health hospitals. We need to 
make certain that in our efforts to 
focus on health care, we have an appropriate 
prioritization of mental health 
as well. The 21st Century Cures Act 
takes steps forward in that regard in 
providing solutions for more than 11.5 
million American adults who live with 
mental illness that is considered disabling. 
Important sections of the Help


ing Families in Mental Health Crisis 
Act, which represents some of the most 
significant reforms to the mental 
health system in more than a decade, 
are included in the Cures Act. These efforts 
are aided by establishing a new 
Assistant Secretary for Mental Health 
and Substance Abuse at the Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
and we are hopeful that this person 
will help us coordinate direct funding 
and remove the regulatory barriers 
that hold back our abilities to find 
treatment and cures and care for people 
who suffer from mental illness. 

Suicides are a significant problem. 
The Presiding Officer and I serve on 
the Veterans’ Committee together, 
where suicides by veterans are an ever-
present problem. Twenty-two veterans 
a day commit suicide. Our efforts at focusing 
research and treatment in regard 
to mental health can help save 
the lives of those who sacrificed so 
much for us and comfort their families 
and avoid disasters and tragedies that 
occur way too often. 

There are a couple of provisions that 
were included in this legislation as it 
works its way through the Senate. I am 
supportive of many of those related to 
rural health care. For my time in Congress, 
I have been an active member of 
the rural health care caucus. I represent 
a State that has 127 hospitals in 
communities across our State. Those 
hospitals provide health care and jobs 
for people in rural America. Rural Kansans 
have paid into FICA and Social 
Security taxes and deserve to have the 
attention they need for treating individuals 
who choose to live in rural 
America, in keeping those hospital 
doors open, keeping physicians in our 
communities, and keeping the pharmacy 
open on Main Street. Those are 
things that matter greatly to me. 

Unfortunately, the Centers for Medicare 
& Medicaid Services, a component 
of the Department of Health and 
Human Services, often creates rules 
and regulations that make no sense in 
the places that the Presiding Officer 
and I come from. So I am supporting a 
couple of things in particular that are 
included in this bill. We had a regulation 
that came from CMS—the Centers 
for Medicare & Medicaid Services—generally 
called physician supervision. Its 
enforcement is delayed 1 year in the 
Cures Act. I am the sponsor of legislation 
to rid us of that regulation permanently, 
but it is a benefit for us to have 
it out of the system for another year as 
we work to find that permanent solution. 
But the idea that there must be a 
physician present in certain circumstances—
it is difficult for us to 
have a physician on site in a room with 
a patient in every circumstance, and 
our mid-levels and others are important 
to us in rural communities in particular. 
That delay is something we 
have worked hard on, and I am pleased 
to see that we were successful in getting 
it included in this legislation. 

Many of those hospitals that I mentioned 
in Kansas—127 hospitals in our 

State, 80-plus—90 or so—are what are 
called critical access hospitals, which 
is a special designation that allows 
them a so-called cost-based reimbursement. 
When I was in the House of Representatives, 
I authored legislation 
that created an opportunity to expand 
the critical access hospital designation 
to hospitals that are slightly larger 
and that wouldn’t otherwise meet the 
criteria, which is 25 beds or less. There 
is a demonstration project, a pilot program 
that has been operating in the 
country for the last 5 years, trying to 
determine what cost-based reimbursement 
would mean for hospitals that are 
slightly larger than 25 beds. That demonstration 
project is expiring. Fortunately, 
language in the Cures Act extends 
that community health demonstration 
project—something, again, 
we have worked hard to make certain 
happens. I am pleased that the lead 
sponsors of this legislation were amenable 
to our request to include these 
provisions. 

I would conclude by saying the 
United States has a responsibility to 
continue our leadership in providing 
medical breakthroughs that will help 
change the world, and certainly change 
people’s lives, to develop those cures 
and treat diseases, and we must commit 
ourselves to significant support for 
research that is supported in legislation 
just like the 21st Century Cures 
Act. This legislation has the capacity 
to benefit millions of Americans suffering 
from chronic diseases. It can 
help our grandparents, our children, 
our lifelong best friends, and we can 
avoid the tragedy that comes with a diagnosis 
that often ends in death. People’s 
lives depend upon the decisions we 
make, and this is a decision we can 
make that will benefit many Americans 
and their families. 

Our researchers must be able to rely 
on consistent, sustainable funding support 
from Congress; otherwise we will 
lose the best and brightest, and we will 
lose men and women who think maybe 
they want to be a researcher and find a 
cure for a disease, but because of their 
uncertainty as to whether or not their 
research might get funded or whether 
the funding is going to be there next 
year—they get it, but they are uncertain 
as to whether it will continue. We 
don’t want to lose those bright minds 
and noble colleagues, people across our 
country who might enter into the profession 
of medical research to help find 
ways to meet the needs of Americans 
and their health care. 

NIH-supported research has raised 
life expectancy, improved the quality 
of life, and lowered overall health care 
costs. This legislation strengthens that 
circumstance and allows us to better 
remain globally competitive in the 
arena of medical research. The 21st 
Century Cures Act is a powerful statement 
by Congress, but, more important 
than being a statement, it is something 
that will actually make a difference in 
the future of the people that we care 
about. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6649 

I commend the efforts by many Senators 
and Members of the House to 
make certain that this legislation arrives 
here in the Senate before there is 
a recess for the holidays. It will be a 
strong statement, but, more importantly, 
we expect significant results 
and the improvement of people’s lives 
across the Nation and around the 
globe. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CASSIDY). 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 


f 

ANTI-SEMITISM AWARENESS ACT 
OF 2016 

Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of S. 10, introduced earlier today. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the bill by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (S. 10) to provide for the consideration 
of a definition of anti-Semitism for the 
enforcement of Federal antidiscrimination 
laws concerning education programs or activities. 


There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise 
today, along with my colleague from 
South Carolina, to talk about a bill we 
have introduced entitled the ‘‘Anti-
Semitism Awareness Act of 2016.’’ 

Let me say first that I wish we were 
living in a time where we would not 
have to introduce legislation like this, 
but unfortunately what we have seen 
over a long period of time—and I think 
a problem that is getting worse—is the 
rising tide of anti-Semitism in substantial 
sectors of our society. We 
have, in fact, a rise in the incidence of 
religious discrimination and religiously 
motivated hate crimes. To say 
that is unacceptable, even un-American, 
is an understatement. 

We have to take action at long last 
to do what we can in the U.S. Senate, 
and I hope in the House as well, to not 
just speak out against anti-Semitism 
but to take action which will lead to a 
better strategy to deal with it. What do 
I mean by that? Well, it is simple. It is 
about definitions, and it is about making 
sure that Federal agencies, such as 
the Department of Education, do their 
job when it comes to combating anti-
Semitism. We know that one piece of 
legislation is not somehow going to 
magically eradicate anti-Semitism. We 
don’t have that naive hope. But what 
we do believe is that if we don’t take 
action, this problem is only going to 
get worse. 

Some of the problem, frankly, is on 
our college campuses, and I know that 

is true, unfortunately and regrettably, 
in my home State of Pennsylvania. We 
don’t have time to list every incident, 
every action, every terrible example of 
this, but I will just provide one for the 
record. 

In September, students at 
Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania— 
one of our great institutions of higher 
education not only in Pennsylvania but 
across the country—Swarthmore is a 
great school, but here is what they 
found. They found swastikas spray-
painted in a bathroom in the library. 
The college leadership did the right 
thing in swiftly condemning these actions 
and removing the graffiti, and I 
am glad they did that. 

I can only try to imagine—and I can 
literally only try to understand because 
I have never been the victim of 
this kind of hate—the horror that was 
experienced by those students and 
their families. A person comes to a college 
or a university as a place where 
they are going to learn and grow and 
live in a community, and then there 
are people—for whatever reason, and I 
will never understand the reason anyone 
would do that—painting those images 
and using language and taking 
other actions that discriminate against 
people because of who they are. We 
have to be not just concerned about 
this, as I said, but we have to figure 
out a way to take action. 

This particular piece of legislation is 
aimed at a terrible manifestation of 
this problem. When anti-Semitic views 
lead to discrimination against students 
of Jewish faith or Jewish ancestry, 
that is the result, and they are the victims 
of this. The intent here is simple 
and narrowly circumscribed to make 
sure we are getting at the problem as 
best we can to define anti-Semitism at 
long last—this hasn’t been done before—
to define anti-Semitism so that 
the Department of Education can effectively 
investigate allegations of discrimination 
motivated by anti-Semitism 
under the Civil Rights Act. The 
bill does not infringe on the First 
Amendment. It does not infringe on 
those rights of free speech. It is intended 
to help protect students from 
discrimination on the basis of their 
faith. 

We all agree that religious discrimination 
has no place on campuses, has 
no place in our society, and we have to 
do more than just speak out against it. 
That is fundamental, but we can do 
more than just speak out; we can define 
it and thereby give in this case one 
Federal Government agency one tool it 
needs to deal with this issue. This is a 
bill which is timely not only because of 
what is happening on college campuses 
but unfortunately what has happened 
in too many parts of our society. We 
want to make sure the Department of 
Education has at least one of those 
tools to deal with this problem. 

Because of the nature of this problem, 
we have people on both sides of 
the aisle here who are very concerned 
about it. I am particularly grateful 

that I am joined by my colleague from 
South Carolina, Senator SCOTT, who is 
joining with me. We are a Democrat 
and a Republican from different parts 
of the country and a different point of 
view on a lot of issues. On this issue we 
are unified, and we have a solidarity 
about not just the problem, but there 
is a solidarity and a consensus about 
one of the things we can do to take action 
on this issue. 

I am grateful to be joined by my col


league from South Carolina. 

I yield the floor to him. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen


ator from South Carolina. 

Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I thank 
Senator CASEY for joining me on the 
floor. 

There is no question that much of 
our country yearns for a day when Republicans 
and Democrats come together 
on issues that impact who we 
are as a nation. I am thankful that 
Senator CASEY has joined me in this 
objective of making sure hate is pushed 
out of this Nation every single day. 

Today I come to speak about an 
alarming issue—the issue of hate. It 
truly tears at the very fabric of our 
great Nation and should inspire all of 
us to stand up and be counted on the 
side of justice, on the side of common 
sense, and on the side of making sure 
this great American family remains 
one Nation. 

Over the past several years, there has 
been a sharp rise in religiously motivated 
hate crimes, particularly on our 
college and university campuses all 
over America. According to the FBI, 
close to 60 percent of these crimes were 
due to anti-Jewish sentiments. From 
2014 to 2015, we saw the number of reported 
incidents double. Let me say 
that one more time. In a year, we saw 
a doubling of the incidence of religious 
discrimination on college campuses, 
and the vast majority of those issues 
and situations focused on the Jewish 
community. There were 90 anti-Jewish 
incidents reported at 60 schools last 
year, compared with 47 incidents on 43 
campuses just the year before. These 
numbers are staggering. 

Senator CASEY noted that there have 
been college campuses and buildings on 
college campuses where we have seen 
swastikas. We have heard protests that 
call for Zionists to leave the school, 
and we have heard references being 
made to burning in Auschwitz. I am 
stunned and saddened by the careless 
and hateful reminders of such an incredibly 
dark and daunting time in our 
world’s history, but I also feel empowered 
and committed to taking a stand 
against hate. No one, not a single person 
should ever have to experience 
being singled out because of who they 
are or attacked based on the religion 
they choose to follow. There is simply 
no place in our country for this kind of 
intolerance, especially not in our country, 
the greatest country on Earth. 

As citizens of this great Nation, it 
falls on us to stand up and do more to 
protect our students from being targeted 
by any form of hate and bigotry. 


S6650 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

It is important that we work together 
to stamp out anti-Semitism and other 
forms of religious discrimination. Our 
students should be able to go to school, 
to grow, to learn, and to develop without 
having to worry about being discriminated 
against. Although the Department 
of Education’s Office of Civil 
Rights has stated that they will not 
tolerate incidents such as these, there 
exists a lack of firm guidance on what 
constitutes anti-Semitic acts. That is 
why Senator CASEY and I stand before 
you today to introduce the bipartisan 
Anti-Semitism Awareness Act. We 
have come together to ensure that the 

U.S. Department of Education has the 
necessary tools at their disposal to investigate 
anti-Jewish discrimination. 
Our proposed legislation uses the 
very definition of anti-Semitism adopted 
by the U.S. State Department’s Special 
Envoy to monitor and combat 
anti-Semitism. This important clarification 
will provide necessary direction 
to assist officials and administrators 
to understand when anti-Semitic 
activities are occurring. By clarifying 
exactly what anti-Semitism is, we will 
leave no question as to what constitutes 
an illegal anti-Semitic incident. 


As we seek to tackle this concerning 
issue, it is important to note that this 
act will in no way infringe on any individual 
right protected under the First 
Amendment of the Constitution. I 
think we have to emphasize that. Our 
legislation in no way, shape, or form 
infringes upon any individual rights 
protected under the First Amendment 
of the Constitution. It simply and specifically 
provides clarity on the definition 
that the Department of Education 
can and will use for defining anti-Semitic 
acts. 

We must act now. This increase in religiously 
motivated hate crimes must 
be addressed. It must be addressed by 
the entire American family, and it 
ought to start here. We will come together 
because we will not allow others 
to tear us apart. We must hold to the 
ideals that our Nation was founded on 
and promote freedom of religion. We 
must protect that freedom and encourage 
it. We must—as a Nation, as an 
American family—call out hate wherever 
and whenever we see it. 

I thank Senator CASEY for his involvement 
and leadership on such an 
important issue. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I 
would like to thank Senators SCOTT 
and CASEY for their work on the anti-
discrimination legislation, particularly 
as it relates to anti-Semitism. I support 
them in that effort and look forward 
to getting something done in Congress 
to help address the definition of 
anti-Semitism for the Department of 
Education. 

Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the bill be 
read a third time and passed and the 
motion to reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The bill (S. 10) was ordered to be engrossed 
for a third reading, was read 
the third time, and passed, as follows: 

S. 10 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Anti-Semitism 
Awareness Act of 2016’’. 

SEC. 2. FINDINGS. 

Congress makes the following findings: 

(1) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 
(referred to in the section as ‘‘title VI’’) is 
one of the principal antidiscrimination statutes 
enforced by the Department of Education’s 
Office for Civil Rights. 
(2) Title VI prohibits discrimination on the 
basis of race, color, or national origin. 
(3) Both the Department of Justice and the 
Department of Education have properly concluded 
that title VI prohibits discrimination 
against Jews, Muslims, Sikhs, and members 
of other religious groups when the discrimination 
is based on the group’s actual or perceived 
shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics 
or when the discrimination is based on 
actual or perceived citizenship or residence 
in a country whose residents share a dominant 
religion or a distinct religious identity. 
(4) A September 8, 2010 letter from Assistant 
Attorney General Thomas E. Perez to 
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights 
Russlynn H. Ali stated that ‘‘[a]lthough 
Title VI does not prohibit discrimination on 
the basis of religion, discrimination against 
Jews, Muslims, Sikhs, and members of other 
groups violates Title VI when that discrimination 
is based on the group’s actual or perceived 
shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics’’. 
(5) To assist State and local educational 
agencies and schools in their efforts to comply 
with Federal law, the Department of 
Education periodically issues Dear Colleague 
letters. On a number of occasions, these letters 
set forth the Department of Education’s 
interpretation of the statutory and regulatory 
obligations of schools under title VI. 
(6) On September 13, 2004, the Department 
of Education issued a Dear Colleague letter 
regarding the obligations of schools (including 
colleges) under title VI to address incidents 
involving religious discrimination. The 
2004 letter specifically notes that ‘‘since the 
attacks of September 11, 2001, OCR has received 
complaints of race or national origin 
harassment commingled with aspects of religious 
discrimination against Arab Muslim, 
Sikh, and Jewish students.’’. 
(7) An October 26, 2010 Dear Colleague letter 
issued by the Department of Education 
stated, ‘‘While Title VI does not cover discrimination 
based solely on religion, groups 
that face discrimination on the basis of actual 
or perceived shared ancestry or ethnic 
characteristics may not be denied protection 
under Title VI on the ground that they also 
share a common faith. These principles apply 
not just to Jewish students, but also to students 
from any discrete religious group that 
shares, or is perceived to share, ancestry or 
ethnic characteristics (e.g., Muslims or 
Sikhs).’’. 
(8) Anti-Semitism remains a persistent, 
disturbing problem in elementary and secondary 
schools and on college campuses. 
(9) Jewish students are being threatened, 
harassed, or intimidated in their schools (including 
on their campuses) on the basis of 
their shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics 
including through harassing conduct 
that creates a hostile environment so severe, 
pervasive, or persistent so as to interfere 
with or limit some students’ ability to participate 
in or benefit from the services, activities, 
or opportunities offered by schools. 

(10) The 2010 Dear Colleague letter cautioned 
schools that they ‘‘must take prompt 
and effective steps reasonably calculated to 
end the harassment, eliminate any hostile 
environment, and its effects, and prevent the 
harassment from recurring,’’ but did not provide 
guidance on current manifestation of 
anti-Semitism, including discriminatory 
anti-Semitic conduct that is couched as anti-
Israel or anti-Zionist. 
(11) The definition and examples referred 
to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 3 have 
been valuable tools to help identify contemporary 
manifestations of anti-Semitism, and 
include useful examples of discriminatory 
anti-Israel conduct that crosses the line into 
anti-Semitism. 
(12) Awareness of this definition of anti-
Semitism will increase understanding of the 
parameters of contemporary anti-Jewish 
conduct and will assist the Department of 
Education in determining whether an investigation 
of anti-Semitism under title VI is 
warranted. 
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS. 

For purposes of this Act, the term ‘‘definition 
of anti-Semitism’’— 

(1) includes the definition of anti-Semitism 
set forth by the Special Envoy to Monitor 
and Combat Anti-Semitism of the Department 
of State in the Fact Sheet issued on 
June 8, 2010, as adapted from the Working 
Definition of Anti-Semitism of the European 
Monitoring Center on Racism and Xenophobia 
(now known as the European Union 
Agency for Fundamental Rights); and 
(2) includes the examples set forth under 
the headings ‘‘Contemporary Examples of 
Anti-Semitism’’ and ‘‘What is Anti-Semitism 
Relative to Israel?’’ of the Fact Sheet. 
SEC. 4. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION FOR TITLE VI 
OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964. 

In reviewing, investigating, or deciding 
whether there has been a violation of title VI 
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d 
et seq.) on the basis of race, color, or national 
origin, based on an individual’s actual 
or perceived shared Jewish ancestry or Jewish 
ethnic characteristics, the Department of 
Education shall take into consideration the 
definition of anti-Semitism as part of the 
Department’s assessment of whether the alleged 
practice was motivated by anti-Semitic 
intent. 
SEC. 5. CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTIONS. 

Nothing in this Act, or an amendment 
made by this Act, shall be construed to diminish 
or infringe upon any right protected 
under the First Amendment to the Constitution 
of the United States. 

Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

TSUNAMI WARNING, EDUCATION, 

AND RESEARCH ACT OF 2015— 

Continued 

TRIBUTE TO TRECIA BICKFORD MCEVOY 

Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I rise 
today, not a minute too late, not a 
minute too early but at the exact time 
I am scheduled to speak. That is because 
of a remarkable woman, my 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6651 

scheduler Trecia Bickford McEvoy. 
Trecia has dedicated 25 years of her life 
to serving her country and the United 
States Senate. She has worked for a 
Republican, she has worked for an 
Independent, and she has worked for a 
Democrat, a true bipartisan public 
servant we can all learn a thing or two 
from. 

As a farmer, the schedule is rigorous 
but simple: You plant, you harvest, and 
then everything else in between, but 
when I got to the Senate, I found Washington, 
DC, is not as cut and dry as the 
farm. Luckily for me, after Trecia 
served Vermont Senator Jim Jefford’s 
office for over 15 years, she came to my 
office to help me and my staff find the 
bathrooms. 

Since 2008, I have been lucky enough 
to have her in my office, and the State 
of Montana is better off for it. Thanks 
to her remarkable work, I have been 
able to see thousands of Montanans, in 
between thousands of committee hearings 
and briefings and runs to the airport, 
all because of an airtight schedule 
curated by Trecia. 

At an all-staff meeting, one of my 
staffers was asked to draw a picture of 
what she believes Trecia does every 
day. With her trademark humility, 
Trecia said: ‘‘Well, that would be kind 
of boring,’’ but what landed on that 
paper was a set of hands, a generous set 
of hands, that ensures that all Montanans 
can engage with the important 
policy decisions that shape our lives 
every day. 

Trecia acts as the hands that carry 
Montanans from all across the State to 
see their Senator. It is not boring at 
all. In fact, it is really important. If 
scheduling was an art, my schedules 
would be enshrined not just on my Web 
site but also down the street at the National 
Gallery. Trecia would know exactly 
how many minutes it takes every 
day to drive from the Hill to the museum. 


As my colleagues know, a good 
scheduler is hard to find and even harder 
to keep. Trecia has shown a staying 
quality that puts her in the Scheduler 
Hall of Fame, a hall that would be 
erected along the road from the Capitol 
to National Airport. Whether it is a 
call from my farm at 3 a.m. to tell her 
I am going to miss my flight because 
my truck can’t make it through the 
snow or a text from the plane in Minneapolis 
asking which gate I need to 
get to for a tight connection, Trecia 
has always been ready and willing to 
answer the call. 

After 25 years on the Hill, I know I 
am not the only one who can attest to 
Trecia’s talents as a scheduler, as a 
friend, and as a person. She is a critical 
part of my office, not only because she 
keeps me on schedule, but she is also a 
relentless mentor to my younger staffers, 
always sharing in their joys and 
consoling them in their tougher times. 

I will never forget that the first time 
I met Trecia is when I interviewed her 
for the job as my scheduler. A few 
months earlier, my wife and I had just 

been on an airplane from Seattle to 
Washington National Airport. My wife 
sat in the middle seat in row 12, and I 
sat in the middle seat in row 27. 

I said to Trecia: What is going to 
happen when you schedule me on a 
cross-country flight in a middle seat in 
the back of the plane and my wife in a 
middle seat in the front of the plane? 

She looked at me and said: That ain’t 

ever going to happen. 

And it never has. 

Her smarts, her generosity, and her 
quick wit not only make my life easier 
but also make the lives of other Senators’ 
staffs and, most importantly, 
Montanans’ easier. As one of my 
former chiefs of staff pointed out, 
whether it is a veteran from Columbia 
Falls, a high school student from Billings, 
or a mom from Havre, Trecia has 
played a vital role in improving the 
lives of everyday Montanans. They 
may not know who made that moment 
happen, but I do. 

To me and to many others on the Hill 
and in the office, Trecia is more than 
just a scheduler. When I asked for the 
quintessential Trecia McEvoy story, 
one of her former bosses told a story— 
not about Trecia getting a meeting 
scheduled or pulling off an air traffic 
miracle, but they told a story about 
Trecia the coworker and friend. According 
to one of her former chiefs of 
staff, Trecia would give a secret heads-
up to young, junior staff members any 
time their boss was coming by so that 
their pencils were sharpened and everything 
was on the up and up, even late 
on a Friday afternoon long after the 
Senator had flown home. This type of 
kindness, humor, and leadership shines 
through with Trecia’s work every day. 

Whether it is a bright-eyed intern 
from Helena looking for a place to live 
for the summer, the ambitious staff assistant 
looking for professional guidance, 
or the know-it-all executive assistant 
who thinks he knows best, 
Trecia has been there to give advice, to 
listen, and to keep all of us grounded in 
a town where often the only thing bigger 
than the monuments are the egos. 

Despite a reputation as a miracle 
worker, her greatest accomplishment 
has been balancing the hectic profession 
of a scheduler with her critically 
important duties as a parent. When I 
call on Thursday night because a flight 
is delayed, it is not uncommon for me 
to hear in the background the cheer of 
a crowd from Ian’s hockey game or a 
hushed whisper from an audience at 
one of Zachary’s plays. Despite the 
long hours, frantic phone calls, and 
countless emails, Trecia’s No. 1 priority 
has always been crystal clear: her 
family. Over the past 25 years, Trecia 
and her husband Jeff have made sure 
that their kids—Alexis, Zachary, and 
Ian—have everything they need to be 
able to succeed. 

In the office and in life, Trecia is 
more than a scheduler. What has made 
Trecia a great scheduler over the years 
are the same qualities that have made 
her a great friend, counselor, and 

mother. Trecia’s generosity, sympathetic 
ear, sharp wit, and understanding 
nature have made her a phenomenal 
scheduler, a great friend, and, 
most importantly, an ideal mother. 

On behalf of Montana, Vermont, 
countless staff members, and from this 
dirt farmer from Big Sandy, I thank 
Trecia for 25 years of service. 

Mr. President, I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. FRANKEN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

OVERTIME RULE 

Mr. FRANKEN. Mr. President, as we 
enter the holiday season, today should 
be a special day for 4.2 million working 
Americans, including 75,000 Minnesotans. 
That is because today was supposed 
to be the day that the overtime 
rule would go into effect to ensure that 
workers are paid overtime wages when 
they work more than 40 hours in a 
week. Instead, the rule has been 
blocked, meaning that many of these 
working people will not be able to benefit 
from this rule, which is especially 
unfortunate given that the holidays 
are coming upon us. Right now, these 

4.2 million employees don’t have to be 
paid at all for overtime work they perform. 
That is what we are trying to 
change. 
As you know, we had a big election in 
which working people sent the clear 
message they are hurting. Yet less 
than a month later, Republicans have 
decided to attack a rule that would ensure 
that American workers are paid 
for every hour they work. This is exactly 
the type of policy we should all 
be able to agree on to help working 
people across the country. 

During the campaign, President-
Elect Trump repeatedly said he was for 
working people. One important action 
he could take immediately would be to 
go on his twitter account and express 
support for the overtime rule. 

Here is why this rule matters so 
much. As our economy has changed in 
the past couple of decades, the rule on 
overtime pay has not kept pace at all. 
The last meaningful improvement for 
workers covered by this rule came in 
1975, when the rule made 62 percent of 
so-called administrative and professional 
employees eligible for overtime 
pay. As a result of failing to keep the 
rule up-to-date and current with the 
rate of inflation, right now only 7 percent 
of employees in that category 
must be paid overtime. 

The Obama administration’s update 
to the overtime rule was intended to 
change the fact that under the standard 
right now, employers aren’t required 
to pay overtime to these employees 
unless the employees earn less 
than $23,000 a year. If you are paid on 
a salary basis and earn more than 


S6652 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

$23,000 a year, your employer can make 
you work more than 40 hours a week 
and not pay you anything at all for 
your extra hours. Twenty-three thousand 
dollars is simply too low of a 
threshold. A salary of $23,000 a year is 
below the poverty line for a family of 
four. I believe workers and their families 
deserve better. 

That is why the Obama administration 
instituted an update to the overtime 
rule, to lift the salary threshold 
to $47,000 a year, bringing it closer to 
the original standard in place in 1975. 
It still wouldn’t be as high as the comparable 
level in 1975, but it would be a 
vast improvement, and it would mean 
that 4.2 million more workers across 
the United States would qualify for 
overtime pay. 

Consider a retail manager making a 
salary of $40,000 a year at a big box 
store or fast-food chain. Right now, 
many employers are legally allowed to 
require such an employee to work 50, 60 
or more hours in a week without paying 
him or her anything extra. This 
new rule would mean the employee 
would be paid extra when they work 
more than 40 hours a week. 

Similarly, the rule would make sure 
a trucking dispatcher earning $45,000 a 
year would not be forced to work late 
at night without compensation. The 
rule encourages his or her employer to 
send employees home to his or her family 
on time or else the employer will 
pay them for the overtime he or she 
works. 

This is very important for working 
men and women in America. That is 
why many of my colleagues and I have 
been strong supporters of this rule. 
That is why it has been very disappointing 
to see so many of my Republican 
colleagues attack and ultimately 
try to dismantle this rule. 

They have been attacking the rule 
ever since it was proposed. They have 
set out on a campaign to delay, to 
water down, or to block the rule entirely. 
In the Senate, 45 Republicans 
have signed on to a bill to block it. In 
the House, 202 Members have signed on 
to a companion measure to that bill. 
House Speaker PAUL RYAN claims the 
rule is an ‘‘absolute disaster,’’ and Senator 
VITTER claims the rule will ‘‘reduce 
worker’s opportunity for long-
term advancement and increased pay.’’ 

Despite their attacks on this updated 
rule in the House and in the Senate, 
Republicans weren’t able to block it 
through the legislative process. So 
they took their fight to the courts, 
where they used their old tactic of 
forum shopping, where they file a suit 
in the court they think is most likely 
to be favorable for their arguments. As 
a result, 9 days ago, they convinced a 
Texas judge to put the updated overtime 
rule on hold. The 4.2 million 
workers who today were scheduled to 
be paid for every hour they work above 
the 40 could continue to be forced to 
work overtime without the additional 
compensation they deserve. 

As our economy has continued to recover 
from the Great Recession, too 

much of the wealth in the last few 
years has accrued to the top 1 percent 
in this country and often the top one-
tenth of 1 percent. While new data suggests 
the economy has improved a bit 
for middle-class workers since last 
year, the median household income in 
the United States remains lower than 
it was in the year 2000 in real dollars. 
Updating our overtime pay rule is one 
of the most effective steps we can take 
to put working people back on a more 
level economic playing field. 

I hope my colleagues will join me 
today in pledging to fight in Congress, 
the executive branch, and the courts 
for a fairer system for all workers and 
for updating this incredibly outdated 
overtime rule. Let’s hope that the postponement 
of the new rule today will be 
temporary. Let’s join forces on behalf 
of American workers to stand strong in 
support of a fair overtime rule and to 
work together to build a stronger 
American middle class. 

I thank the Presiding Officer. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Oregon. 

Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I appreciate 
the comments made by my 
colleague from Minnesota. He has been 
a strong champion for America’s workers 
and believes we should make this 
Nation and our economy work for 
working Americans. His leadership on 
this overtime rule is certainly much 
appreciated. 

Today should be a day of celebration. 
It should be a day in which 4 million 
American workers who work overtime 
without getting paid but earn very 
modest salaries were going to get rewarded 
for their overtime work—get 
paid for their overtime work—but instead 
those 4 million Americans are 
getting scrooged. 

You all remember the story of Ebenezer 
Scrooge. He made a lot of money 
as a very successful businessman. He 
enjoyed counting his coins while treating 
his workers in a terrible fashion 
and paying them as little as he could 
get away with. That is exactly what is 
at stake with this overtime rule. The 
vision of the overtime rule was that 
when you had a very well-paid manager 
who was clearly earning far more than 
they would if they were earning a more 
modest amount plus overtime, you 
could reduce the complexity of tracking 
their overtime hours and instead 
simply pay them a salary without compensation 
for overtime. The key to 
that was that it was a very well-paid 
worker or manager and not someone 
earning near the bottom of the scale 
and barely making more than minimum 
wage. 

As I said, today should be a day of 
celebration with the overtime rule 
being modified so that it would catch 
up with inflation. Many decades have 
passed since it was put forward. It was 
supposed to be adjusted for inflation 
from here forward, but it was not adjusted. 


This is not a day of celebration; it is 
a day in which approximately 4 million 

Americans are getting scrooged, and 
that also means 40,000 Oregonians who 
were looking forward to finally getting 
compensated for the overtime they will 
be working during this coming holiday 
season will also be told: No go. No paycheck. 
No compensation for your overtime. 


These folks earn as little as $23,000 a 
year. Going into the holidays, a lot of 
retail workers are asked to work far 
more than 40 hours a week. They are 
asked to work 50, 60, 70, 80 hours a 
week without a dime of overtime, and 
that is wrong. 

A whole lot of these workers are parents 
raising children. It is pretty hard 
to raise a child on $23,000 a year. I don’t 
think anyone in this Chamber—any 
one of the Senators here in this Chamber—
has raised a child on $23,000 a 
year. If they had attempted to do so, 
they would have an understanding of 
why they should be up here right now 
joining this fight for the overtime 
rule—which is hopelessly outdated and 
hopelessly unfair to America’s workers—
to be implemented in a timely 
fashion with legislation that we could 
pass today. Instead, Senators with 
their far larger salaries are very happily 
preparing for their holiday without 
considering that today is a day in 
which 4 million American workers are 
getting treated unfairly. 

Since 1975, the salary of full-time 
workers who qualify for overtime has 
plummeted from 62 percent to 7 percent. 
That is a pretty dramatic reduction. 
For over a year now, millions of 
American workers have been looking 
forward to today when their long hours 
of overtime were finally going to be 
compensated, and it is only fair that 
they have that compensation. But just 
like Ebenezer Scrooge, the Republican 
Party, in coordination with 21 States, 
has said to those 4 million American 
workers: Bah humbug. You don’t get 
compensated for your overtime. We are 
putting a lump of coal in your stocking, 
and it is too bad that you are trying 
to raise kids. This happened because 
States filed a lawsuit and got a 
preliminary injunction granted by a 
judge to take away the power of today’s 
overtime rule, the modified overtime 
rule, to assist American workers. 

I grew up in a blue-collar family. My 
dad was a mechanic, and my mother 
was a stay-at-home mom. My father, 
who had a basic blue-collar wage, was 
able to put food on the table, buy a 
three-bedroom ranch house with a garage, 
acquire a car, and have modest 
family camping vacations. It was a 
pretty square deal to provide a foundation 
for his children to thrive and have 
opportunities by working with his 
hands. Our blue-collar community was 
in much the same situation. When he 
worked overtime and stayed on the job 
because a machine needed to be repaired 
and finished in time for a client 
of the company to be able to put that 
heavy equipment to work to build 
highways, work in the forest, or work 
to build dams, he got paid for that 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6653 

overtime, and it was right and fair that 
he did. 

It is not right and fair that today 
America’s workers are not getting paid 
for their overtime. They are working 
longer and harder only to see that 
extra wealth go to the CEO of the company. 
American workers are working 
longer hours, but their wages and paychecks 
are getting spread thinner and 
thinner. The overtime rule is a long 
overdue adjustment for those who are 
working those long hours. You don’t 
get any help from this rule if you are 
not working more than 40 hours a 
week. 

When President Franklin Roosevelt 
was talking about the importance of 
living wages to support families, he 
said: ‘‘By living wages I mean more 
than a bare subsistence level—I mean 
the wages of decent living.’’ Isn’t that 
what we are talking about, the wages 
of decent living? 

Is there anyone who would contend 
that a parent raising a child on $23,000 
a year is making a wage that would 
allow them to have a decent living? I 
don’t think so, at least not at the cost 
of what it is to exist in today’s society, 
not when rent on a two-bedroom apartment 
is $800 to $900 in Portland, not 
when the cost of groceries is where it 
is, and not when the cost of health care 
is where it is. Franklin Roosevelt said 
that no one who works full time should 
live in poverty. He said that working 
Americans should make enough to 
raise and support a family and provide 
a foundation for their children to 
thrive. He meant that you should be 
able to earn enough to save up over 
time and retire with dignity. He meant 
that a working American should be 
able earn enough to cover the basic necessities 
of life, such as food, clothes, 
and shelter, but for many Americans, 
those goals are out of reach even 
though they are working a lot of overtime, 
overtime in which they are not 
getting paid. We just haven’t kept pace 
with the vision of families being able 
to earn, as Roosevelt put it, the wages 
of a decent living—the wages that enable 
you to live decently. This rule is 
critical to changing and fixing that. 

While the courts tie up the process at 
the request of my Republican colleagues 
and State governments, we 
should instead have a bill here on the 
floor and simply pass this adjustment 
ourselves. 

Has anyone noticed that we just had 
a Presidential campaign in which both 
candidates talked about making America 
work for working Americans? The 
candidate who won the vote in the electoral 
college but lost the popular vote, 
by the way, has claimed he is going to 
watch out for working Americans. 
Well, where is he today on the day 4 
million Americans are getting 
scrooged? Where is Donald Trump 
today on the day that those who 
worked overtime are now told they will 
not get paid for that overtime? How 
about a tweet in the middle of the 
night saying: I get it. 

If we return to the story of Ebenezer 
Scrooge, we remember the fact that he 
was resisting any effort to enable his 
employee, Bob Cratchit, to have 
Christmas Day off with his family or to 
be able to have a decent amount of food 
on the table on that day. His heart was 
a few sizes too small. The night before 
Christmas he had a dream, and in that 
dream ghosts of Christmas past, 
Christmas present, and Christmas future 
came to him and showed the poverty—
the spiritual poverty of his life. 
They showed him the emptiness of his 
life. That life is not about building up 
treasures you can count coin by coin, 
but helping other families to thrive 
and succeed and share in their joy. 
When he woke up, he was a changed 
man. He woke up and said: Yes, my 
team—my workers—shouldn’t be working 
on Christmas Day. Yes, I should 
pay them more. Yes, I should make 
sure they have bountiful food so they 
can care for their family. Yes, their 
son, Tiny Tim, should have the health 
care he needs so he can live a full and 
productive life. He took care of these 
things and personally went out and acquired 
the largest turkey he could for 
the Cratchit family. 

Isn’t today the day when my colleagues 
who have been playing the role 
of Ebenezer Scrooge and fighting fair 
compensation for overtime—isn’t today 
the day when they should take a nap 
and go to sleep tonight and have a little 
bit of a dream about the circumstances 
of working Americans? 
Here we are, just coming off a campaign 
where everyone talked about the 
plight of working Americans. Maybe a 
little of that should reverberate in 
their dreams tonight so that they 
might think about how families are 
struggling across America and how 
hard it is to put food on the table, not 
just during the holiday season but 
throughout the year. They should 
think about how unfair it is for someone 
to work 80 hours a week and not 
get paid overtime because they are 
being paid only $23,000 a year. 

Do I hear a single colleague volunteer 
to work for 80 hours a week for a 
year and get paid $23,000? I would love 
to hear that speech on this floor when 
someone says: I get it. I am all for the 
overtime rule of the past because I am 
willing to live on $23,000 a year. 

I don’t think I have heard that from 
a single colleague. Colleagues here are 
paid many times that increment. 
Maybe it is a little hard to understand 
the plight of American workers when 
you are living in a bubble. Think about 
what it would be like to raise a family 
on $23,000 a year, given the expenses 
you experience in today’s society. 

So tonight, let’s have a few of our 
colleagues who have been such advocates 
of the Ebenezer Scrooge strategy 
of denying overtime to workers who 
are paid very little go to sleep and 
maybe get visited by the ghosts of the 
past and the present and the future. 
Maybe they will be able to put themselves 
in the same pair of shoes that 

working Americans work in and place 
themselves in the same set of circumstances 
and financial challenges 
that American workers have. Maybe 
they can wake up tomorrow with a different 
vision—a vision of being a partner 
with working America—to make 
this Nation work for working America, 
make our economy work for working 
America. Maybe they can come to this 
floor and insist that we immediately 
pass a bill to take care of these workers 
so they are compensated for their 
overtime. That would be a Christmas 
story to celebrate. 

Maybe, while we are at it, our President-
elect can tweet tonight in the 
middle of the night that he had a 
dream and he was visited by the ghosts 
of the past and the present and the future 
and he saw a vision of treating 
workers fairly, and he wants the Senate 
to act tomorrow morning. Wouldn’t 
that be a fabulous Christmas story— 
one that is completely consistent with 
the rhetoric we heard in the campaign 
about an economy that works for 
working Americans. I hope tomorrow 
morning that is exactly what we hear. 

Thank you, Mr. President. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Alaska. 

THE ECONOMY 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, one 
of the things I have been focused on— 
and I know many of my colleagues 
have been as well, such as the Presiding 
Officer—in the last couple of 
years in the Senate is coming to the 
Senate floor and speaking about this 
issue, certainly one of the most important 
issues we can be focused on in the 
Congress, and that is the economy and 
the economic growth for the United 
States. 

What we have here, shown by this 
chart, is really a lost decade of economic 
growth that we have had in 
America over the last 10 years—a lost 
decade. This chart reflects the gross 
domestic product, or GDP growth, in 
the United States over the last several 
decades. GDP is essentially really a 
measure of the health of the economy, 
the health of the opportunity that we 
have in this country. By any measure, 
over the last 10 years we have had a 
sick economy. 

So if we look here at the 3-percent 
GDP growth, this is OK growth. It is 
not considered that great. The average 
rate of growth for the United States 
over the last 200 years—what really has 
made our country great—has been 
about 3.9 percent, almost 4 percent. 
Three percent is not great. It is certainly 
below average. But we have a 
President—President Obama—and an 
administration that is going to be the 
first President ever to never in 1 year, 
even once, hit 3 percent GDP growth 
ever. 

Let me cite a couple of recent numbers. 
In the fourth quarter of 2015, we 
grew at 0.9 percent of GDP and did not 
even hit 1 percent. In the first quarter 
of 2016, it was 0.8 percent of GDP. In 
the second quarter of 2016, it was 1.1 


S6654 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

percent GDP growth. It is true that the 
third quarter numbers came out estimated 
just a little above 3 percent for 
the quarter, but the year will be way 
off of even 3 percent. 

Again, traditional levels of American 
growth are close to 4 percent. 

So each quarter, when these numbers 
have come out—these dismal, anemic 
economic growth numbers—what I 
have tried to do is come to the Senate 
floor, talk about the issue, and then 
ask the question: Where is the Secretary 
of the Treasury? Where is the 
President of the United States? What is 
the plan? Is this really what we expect 
for Americans? We can’t even hit 3 percent 
GDP growth. 

Look at every other administration, 
including Kennedy, Johnson, Eisenhower, 
Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan— 
holy cow—6 percent, 5.5 percent; Bill 
Clinton, 4.5, 5 percent; even George 
Bush, well above 3 percent. Not once in 
8 years—the lost decade of economic 
growth under President Obama. That is 
with low energy prices, and that is 
with super-low interest rates. 

So when we ask what the plan is, 
what the administration is doing to 
grow the economy, they come back and 
say: Well, listen, the new normal is 
about 2 percent, 1.5 percent GDP 
growth. They don’t say we are going to 
grow the economy. They just dumb 
down American expectations. Go 
google the term ‘‘new normal.’’ Everybody 
uses it now in Washington. Essentially, 
they are saying that 1.5, 2 percent 
GDP growth is the best we can do. 

I have a lot of respect for my colleague 
from Oregon, but if you want to 
talk about an Ebenezer Scrooge strategy—
growing the U.S. economy at 1.5 
percent and not even trying to grow at 
traditional levels of American 
growth—that is the ultimate Ebenezer 
Scrooge strategy because the entire 
country, especially middle class families, 
are hurt by it. 

So this answer that, no, we can’t 
even hit 3 percent, that the new normal 
is 1.5, 2 percent, that is an answer that 
we get from the Obama administration. 
The Secretary of the Treasury never 
comes out and tells us how we are 
going to get back to traditional levels 
of growth. That is an answer that consigns 
millions of Americans to lives 
where they no longer believe in economic 
opportunity, no longer believe in 
strong wages and in terms of growth 
for our wages, and no longer believe in 
a future in which their kids are going 
to do better than they did. 

We talk a lot about stats, which are 
important to understand. So let me 
give my colleagues some of the numbers 
behind them. In the last 8 years, 
we have now had, in terms of people 
working in the workforce, the lowest 
labor-force participation rate since 
1978. What does that mean? Again, that 
is a health issue of our economy. It 
means that millions of Americans have 
just quit looking for work. Can we 
imagine being that discouraged because 
the economy is not growing and 
so you just quit looking? 

The percentage of Americans below 
the poverty line has grown by almost 4 
percent over this period, where we see 
no growth. Real medium household income 
during this period sank by almost 
$2,000. Food stamp participation in this 
period—again, 8 years—has soared by 
almost 40 percent. The percentage of 
Americans who own homes, which is 
one of the ultimate markers of the 
American dream, is the lowest it has 
been since 1965. So we were talking 
about Ebenezer Scrooge. My colleague 
was just talking about him. Those are 
Ebenezer Scrooge numbers, and those 
are Americans who are hurting because 
we can’t grow the economy. 

We need to change that. The Obama 
administration has not been focused on 
this issue. We never hear the Secretary 
of the Treasury come out—or even the 
President—and talk about how we get 
back to traditional levels of American 
growth, like every Republican and 
Democratic President has done for decades. 
They don’t talk about it. They 
haven’t been focused on it. But I think 
on November 8, we saw that the American 
people are very focused on this 
issue. Millions and millions of Americans 
rejected the idea that, because of 
these growth rates, they had to give up 
on the American dream and a strong 

U.S. economy and good jobs. They did 
not want to give up on it. We do not 
want to give up on that. 
In essence, Americans saw that the 
idea of the new normal—which is this, 
peddled by the Obama administration— 
is a surrender, and they didn’t want to 
surrender. We shouldn’t surrender. We 
need to grow this economy. 

So what now? Well, I find it very encouraging 
that the President-elect and 
his team, including his nominee for the 
Secretary of the Treasury, have been 
talking very regularly about this issue. 
We need to grow the economy—not at 
new normal rates of 1.5 percent or 2 
percent but at 3, 3.5, or 4 percent GDP 
growth. That is what we need to do. We 
in this body need to help them do that 
because that is what the American people 
want. In fact, with the exception of 
having a strong military and keeping 
this country safe in terms of national 
defense, growing our economy, creating 
economic opportunity for all Americans 
is certainly one of the most important 
things we can do in the Senate. 
But we need a partner in the executive 
branch. We need a partner in the executive 
branch that is actually focused on 
the issue, that actually cares about 
these numbers, and we haven’t had it 
in 8 years. So where do we start? 

I think we need to start on this issue 
of the overregulation of our economy. 
Again, the incoming administration 
has talked a lot about this issue. When 
we ask people outside of Washington 
what is keeping our economy down, 
they refer to this. This chart is a chart 
of the cumulative number of Federal 
rules that have come out of this town 
onto American businesses, small businesses, 
and working-class families. 
That is what we see—pure growth, pure 
growth. 

President Obama has enacted more 
than 600 new major regulations, totaling 
close to $800 billion or $2,300 per 
American. What is really interesting is 
that, despite the fact that the American 
people on November 8 said they 
want to grow the economy and they 
don’t want to see this continue, this 
administration is putting its pedal to 
the metal on trying to see how many 
more regulations they can issue and 
promulgate to crush our economy and 
opportunity. 

My State has been ground zero for a 
lot of these regulations. We are a resource 
development State in Alaska. 
The President just last week came out 
with a new regulation that said: I know 
that the vast majority of Alaskans 
want to responsibly develop their resources, 
but I am going to take the entire 
Outer Continental Shelf off the 
table for Alaska. Sorry, Alaska. Sorry, 
workers. Sorry, American energy independence. 
I am taking it all off the 
table. That was a regulation the President 
put on the table and issued last 
week that is going to hurt our economy, 
that is going to hurt American 
energy independence, that is going to 
hurt jobs, that is going to hurt our national 
security, and he did it anyway. 
There are no leases in my State because 
the President, in Executive 
order, issued that. That is not what the 
American people voted for on November 
8. 

So several Senators, led by Senator 
GARDNER, are going to be sending the 
President a letter very soon saying: 
Mr. President, the American people 
have spoken. The American people are 
tired of this. You are on your way out. 
Please, respect the results of the election 
and quit issuing these regulations 
that are stifling economic growth and 
crushing middle-class families. I hope 
he will abide by that. I hope he listens 
to us. I hope he listens to the American 
people. But, somehow, I think we are 
going to see even more of these in the 
next month or so. 

I wish to conclude by noting something 
that I think most Americans understand 
intuitively. When it comes to 
our Nation and the comparative advantages 
that we have over other countries—
and I am talking about the 
major countries in the world, whether 
it is China or Russia or the EU or 
Brazil or Japan—we have so many incredible 
comparative advantages relative 
to anyone. We have energy. We 
have great entrepreneurs. We have 
world class universities. We have agriculture 
and fisheries that literally feed 
the world. We have some of the brightest 
young people, like our pages here. 
We have a military that is the most 
professional and lethal in the world, by 
far. We have alliances all over the 
world where countries want to be close 
to the United States. Our adversaries 
and potential adversaries, such as 
China, Russia, North Korea, and Iran, 
have very few, if any, allies. 

We have so many advantages, and yet 
the majority of Americans think we 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6655 

are heading in the wrong direction. I 
believe they think that because we 
can’t grow the economy. So what we 
need to do is for all of us to work closely 
with the new administration, and I 
would encourage all of my colleagues 
here in the Senate to focus back on 
this issue. We need to return to traditional 
levels of American economic 
growth, and we can do it with the right 
policies. 

I yield the floor. 

Mr. President, I suggest the absence 
of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The senior assistant legislative clerk 
proceeded to call the roll. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 579 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, 
Members of the Senate, I come to the 
floor to speak about and to propound a 
unanimous consent request in regard 
to the Inspector General’s Empowerment 
Act. I would like to defer. I ask 
unanimous consent to not lose the 
floor but yield to Senator JOHNSON. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I 
thank the Senator from Iowa for letting 
me speak to a very important 
issue. I also thank him for his leadership. 
Long before I came to the Senate, 
I know the Senator from Iowa was 
working tirelessly to make sure government 
was more efficient, more effective, 
and more accountable. He has 
done an awful lot of work to ensure 
that. Certainly he has relied on inspectors 
general to bolster his efforts. 

So I am completely in support of S. 
579, the Inspector General Empowerment 
Act of 2015. When I took over the 
chairmanship of the Senate Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs, the Senator from Iowa 
had been working long and hard on this 
act. I was happy—I was pleased to utilize 
our committee to move this bill 
through our committee unanimously. 

The bill has 18 bipartisan cosponsors. 
It is just incredibly important. The 
Senator from Iowa will certainly fill us 
in on the details of what has happened 
and what has made this bill so important. 
I just want to spend a little bit of 
time on how important inspector generals 
are. 

We, working together with the Senator 
from Iowa, asked the inspectors 
general, for example, to report back to 
us how many of their recommendations—
off of their tireless work—have 
gone unimplemented. We just received 
that report. Over 15,000 recommendations 
from inspectors general have not 
been implemented. The total aggregate 
savings could be as high as $87 billion. 
Even in this massive Federal Government, 
$87 billion is real money. Of 
course, inspectors general need access 
to the records from their agencies, 

from their departments, so they can 
determine what is happening so they 
can make these kind of recommendations. 


We also have had and witnessed a 
real tragedy, for example, at the 
Tomah VA Medical Center. We had an 
inspector general who had inspected 
and investigated over 140 different instances, 
then issued reports on those 
inspections, investigations, and then 
buried those reports—did not make 
those reports public. 

One of those had to do with the 
Tomah VA Center in terms of the over-
prescription of opioids. Because that 
report was not made public, we were 
unaware of the problems there, and the 
problems persisted. For over a decade, 
opioids were being overprescribed. The 
result was that veterans—the finest 
among us—some of them died because 
of overprescription. 

It is not an overstatement to say 
that the work of the inspector general 
is crucial and that work—those reports, 
those inspections, those investigations—
literally is the difference between 
life and death. Again, I am here 
supporting the Senator from Iowa in 
his tireless efforts to get this bill 
passed, the Inspector General Empowerment 
Act of 2015. I urge all of my 
colleagues to allow this to pass by 
unanimous consent so we can get this 
put on the President’s desk and it can 
be signed into law as quickly as possible. 


With that, I yield the floor. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, while 
I am waiting for Senator MCCAIN to 
come to the floor before I speak about 
the specific unanimous consent request 
I am going to make, I would like to 
point out, in a very general way, that 
the pursuit of what we are doing, in so 
many other ways, is part of Congress’s 
constitutional responsibility and constitutional 
authority under the checks 
and balances of government to make 
sure the laws are faithfully executed. 

There are several different tools that 
are used in that direction. They can be 
individual Senators. Any time an individual 
Senator wants to ask questions 
of whether the laws are being faithfully 
executed, that Senator can do it, that 
Member of the House of Representatives 
can do it, through the particular 
committees of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives, through both 
letter as well as open hearings about 
certain subjects of whether money 
being spent by the executive branch is 
according to Congressional intent or 
whether laws are being carried out the 
way Congress intended. 

That is all part of congressional oversight, 
but there has also been seen a 
need, over a course of many years, for 
other ways to make sure it is done. One 
of those was the setting up of the Government 
Accountability Office that has 
authority, at the request of committees 
and request of individual Members 
of Congress, to investigate and do research 
on certain problems we have in 
the executive branch of government. 

That predates, by a long time, the 
passage of the inspectors general law 
that we are dealing with, with this subject 
I have before the Senate now. The 
inspector general was set up for the 
purpose of being within the executive 
branch to see that the laws are faithfully 
executed and the money spent according 
to Congress. I see that Senator 
MCCAIN has come to the floor. I would 
like to make my opening statement on 
the legislation. I thank Senator 
MCCAIN for the courtesy he gives me to 
come and listen to my request. Whatever 
he decides to do with it will be his 
choice, but I want to tell him I appreciate 
the cooperation he has given me 
on so many different things 

To justify my unanimous consent request, 
I start out with some of the 
issues that are involved with the legislation, 
the Inspector General Empowerment 
Act. In 1978, Congress created inspectors 
general or IGs as they are 
often known, to be the eyes and ears 
within the executive branch. 

These independent watchdogs are designed 
to keep Congress and the public 
informed about waste, fraud, and abuse 
in government. They also help agency 
leaders identify problems and inefficiencies 
they may not be aware of. IGs 
are a very critical part to good governance 
and to the rule of law. 

In order for IGs to do their job, they 
need independent access to information. 
That is why, when Congress 
passed the Inspector General Act of 
1978, we explicitly said IGs should have 
access to all records of the agency they 
are charged with overseeing. 

However, since 2010, more and more 
agencies have refused to comply with 
this legal obligation. This obstruction 
has slowed down far too many important 
investigations, ranging from sexual 
assault in the Peace Corps to the 
FBI’s exercise of anti-terrorism authority 
under the PATRIOT Act. 

Those are just two of the things I 
have been involved in. Every one of the 
other 99 Senators would probably have 
to say that in their oversight work, 
somehow the executive branch agencies 
have not carried out the spirit of 
the 1978 legislation. 

It got worse in July of 2016. The Justice 
Department’s Office of Legal 
Counsel released a memo supporting 
this obstruction of congressional intent. 
Now, let me put this in a commonsense 
form that surely everybody 
ought to understand. In 1978, Congress 
passes the inspectors general law. It is 
voted on by a majority of the Congress. 
It is sent to the President. The President 
signs it. It has been law since that 
period of time, but we have a situation 
where 1 bureaucrat out of 2 million 
Federal employees sits and reads something 
into a piece of legislation that 
was never intended because the legislation 
says the inspector general should 
be entitled to all records, but the Office 
of Legal Counsel opinion says: Well, 
maybe not all. It kind of depends on 
the head of the department. There are 
some exceptions in the inspectors general 
law that ought to be there—those 


S6656 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

are spelled out—some of them dealing 
with national security, some of them 
dealing with the Department of Defense, 
as just one example. 

So we have this opinion in July of 
2016. The memo argued that Congress 
did not mean what it very clearly said; 
that the IG gets access to all records. 
This is unacceptable. It undermines 
Congress’s intent. It undermines the 
rule of law. It makes a mockery of government 
transparency. The public deserves 
a robust scrutiny of the Federal 
Government. Every eighth grade civics 
student understands what checks and 
balances is all about. 

Congressional oversight is one of 
those checks. Since September 2015, a 
bipartisan group of Senators and I have 
been working to overturn the Justice 
Department’s opinion through S. 579, 
the Inspector General Empowerment 
Act. Among other things, this bill further 
clarifies that Congress intended 
IGs to access all agency records, notwithstanding 
any other provision of 
law, unless—and this is a big unless— 
other laws specifically state that the 
IGs are not entitled to receive such access. 


A lot of those fall into the area of national 
security and defense. The bill 
has a total of 20 cosponsors, including 
seven of my Democratic colleagues: 
MCCASKILL, CARPER, MIKULSKI, WYDEN, 
BALDWIN, MANCHIN and PETERS. At the 
Judiciary Committee hearing in August 
of last year, Senator LEAHY also 
agreed that this access problem needs 
to be fixed by legislation because it is 
‘‘blocking what was once a free flow of 
information.’’ Even the Justice Department 
witness at that hearing disagreed 
with the results of the Office of Legal 
Counsel opinion and supported legislative 
action to solve the problem. 

As of today, a large majority of Senators, 
the Las Vegas Review Journal— 
and I say that for the benefit of Senator 
REID who at one time objected— 
the New York Times, the Washington 
Post, good governance groups like 
Project on Government Oversight and 
Citizens Against Government Waste, 
all support restoring the intent of that 
act through S. 579. 

I want to emphasize that the intent 
of the act was destroyed by one bureaucrat 
writing a legal opinion that has 
been a crutch for a lot of people who 
don’t want to cooperate with the inspector 
general. 

Despite strong bipartisan and public 
support for the bill, we have not been 
able to pass the bill by unanimous consent. 
We attempted to pass the bill by 
unanimous consent September 2015 and 
again December 2015. 

In December, the Armed Services 
Committee and the Intelligence Committee 
raised concerns about the bill. 
It is perfectly legitimate for them to 
do that. My cosponsors and I worked 
with our colleagues on those committees 
to address and resolve their concerns. 
Ultimately, Chairman MCCAIN 
and Chairman BURR lifted their holds, 
and in December 2015 the bill cleared 

the Republican side with no objections. 
But when we tried to pass the bill on 
the floor by unanimous consent, Senator 
REID, as I previously said, objected 
on the Democratic side. 

In the meantime, the House passed 
its own version of the bill. Since then, 
we have worked closely with the House 
to resolve minor differences between 
the House and Senate bills. Now it is 
time to press forward and finally pass 
this critical bill to ensure the effective 
oversight of waste, fraud, and abuse in 
government—in other words, to make 
very clear that when the act says they 
are entitled to all records, ‘‘all’’ means 
all. 

There is one provision of the bill we 
had to remove from this version at the 
insistence of Senator LEAHY. It relates 
to testimonial subpoena authority for 
inspectors general. 

First, let me be clear about why the 
testimonial subpoena authority is important 
to the ability of IGs to conduct 
effective investigations. When employees 
of the U.S. Government are accused 
of wrongdoing or misconduct, IGs 
should be able to conduct a full and 
thorough investigation. Unfortunately, 
employees who may have violated that 
trust are often able to evade the IG’s 
inquiry simply by retiring from the 
government. Testimonial subpoena authority 
empowers IGs to obtain testimony 
about waste, fraud, and abuse 
from employees after they leave the 
agency. 

Similarly, the subpoena authority 
helps IGs investigate entities that receive 
Federal funds. In other words, if 
you want to know what is wrong, follow 
the money. The subpoena authority 
enables IGs to require testimony 
from government contractors, subcontractors, 
grantees, and subgrantees. 
Currently, most IGs can subpoena documents 
from entities outside of their 
agency, but most cannot subpoena testimony. 
The ability to require witnesses 
outside the agency to talk to 
the IG can be critical in carrying out 
an inspector general’s statutory duties 
or recovering wasted Federal funds. 

Let me also be clear that when we 
learned of Senator LEAHY’s concerns 
with this provision in November 2015, 
my bipartisan cosponsors and I worked 
in good faith for 12 months to address 
them. We offered at least half a dozen 
accommodations that would provide 
meaningful and appropriate limitations 
on the subpoena in question, but 
Senator LEAHY continued to demand 
the removal of that from the bill. 

Despite a year of negotiation, we 
were unable to reach a resolution, so I 
proposed bringing the provision to the 
floor for debate. I offered Senator 
LEAHY the option of debating on the 
floor the merits of the testimonial subpoena 
authority so that the Senate 
could vote on whether to keep or remove 
the provision from the bill, but 
my colleague declined to agree to floor 
time so that we could have an open debate 
on the issue. 

His continued refusal to debate and 
vote on the much needed testimonial 

subpoena authority threatens to derail 
the entire bill, which has such substantial 
bipartisan public support. 

Despite my strong belief that IGs 
need that subpoena authority, I also 
recognize that the IG bill contains 
many other critical provisions the IG 
needs to move forward with it, and now 
is the time to do that. We cannot afford 
to wait any longer for those provisions 
that empower the IG. This bill is 
still necessary to help IGs and to ensure 
to the American people that there 
is transparency and accountability 
within the government. 

Before I ask unanimous consent, I 
wish to say for the benefit of the position 
that I think Senator MCCAIN is 
going to take that the Secretary, under 
existing law, may block an IG investigation 
if it is necessary to preserve 
the national security and interests of 
the United States and if the information 
the IG has requested concerns any 
one of five categories: sensitive operation 
plans, intelligence matters, counterintelligence 
matters, ongoing criminal 
investigations, or other matters 
that would constitute a serious threat 
to national security if they were to be 
disclosed. 

Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent 
that the Senate proceed to the immediate 
consideration of Calendar No. 
68, S. 579. I further ask that the Johnson 
substitute amendment be agreed 
to; the bill, as amended, be read a third 
time and passed; and that the motion 
to reconsider be considered made and 
laid upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there 
objection? 

Mr. MCCAIN. Reserving the right to 
object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator 
from Arizona. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, I appreciate 
the hard work the Senator from 
Iowa and his staff have done. The Senator 
and I are old friends, and I know 
he is one of the most zealous advocates 
for government oversight and reform in 
the Senate. I am aware of the many 
years of hard work he has put into this 
legislation. 

I believe we share the same goal of 
ensuring that inspectors general across 
the Federal Government have the authorities 
and support they need to do 
their vital work on behalf of the American 
people. At the same time, I have 
serious concerns about a few aspects of 
this regulation as written. 

I have been working with the Senator 
from Iowa. I wish to continue working 
with him. 

To tell you the truth, I say to my 
friend from Iowa, I don’t know why we 
cannot reach agreement. What we are 
really talking about are a few words. 
For example, this legislation would 
substitute the words ‘‘under the nominal 
supervision of the head of the establishment 
involved’’—that takes the 
place of the wording ‘‘under the general 
supervision of the establishment 
involved.’’ I say to my friend from 
Iowa, what springs to mind is, why 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6657 

would we want to change that wording 
unless there was some intent to do so? 
Isn’t the ‘‘general supervision of the establishment 
involved’’—we have to 
have ‘‘under the nominal supervision’’? 
What is this wordsmithing stuff that, 
frankly, I can only assume has some 
underlying purpose? Why would you 
want to substitute ‘‘under the nominal 
supervision’’ for ‘‘under the general supervision’’ 
without some reason? I 
don’t get it. There is no explanation for 
why this change is necessary. It is unclear 
what ‘‘nominal supervision’’ 
means. If ‘‘nominal’’ means literally 
‘‘in name only’’—that is what ‘‘nominal’’ 
means—then it would remove the 
IG from the supervisory authority of 
the agency or department head. 

The legislation would impose further 
restrictions on the ability of the Secretary 
of Defense—which is the area of 
my responsibility—to supervise and 
support the inspector general of the 
Department of Defense, so it is a reach 
too far. 

The legislation would also restrict 
the President from placing an inspector 
general in an involuntary nonduty 
status, either paid or not paid, except 
as narrowly defined, for cause. This is 
likely an unconstitutional restriction 
on the authority of the President, who 
has the authority to appoint and to remove 
his or her own appointees. Constitutionally 
appointed officers serve 
at the pleasure of the President. Constitutionally 
appointed officers serve 
at the pleasure of the President, some 
subject to advice and consent of the 
Senate, some not. In other words, us 
saying what a Member of Congress can 
do to put someone on nonduty status is 
not the responsibility or the authority 
of the Congress of the United States. 

It would limit the President’s authority 
to place an inspector general in 
an involuntary, paid or unpaid, 
nonduty status for more than 14 days, 
unless the Integrity Committee of the 
Council of the Inspectors General on 
Integrity and Efficiency, a well-known 
organization, submits to the President 
a written recommendation for additional 
time, which is acted upon by the 
President, and the decision is communicated 
immediately to both Houses of 
Congress. That is a further restriction 
on Presidential power by a committee 
of the Council of the Inspectors General 
on Integrity and Efficiency—by 
the way, an organization whose existence 
I was unaware of. 

The people expect the President to 
have both control and responsibility 
over employees and officers in the executive 
branch, subject to advice and 
consent—the constitutional authorities 
of the Senate of the United States. It is 
clearly outlined in the Constitution. 

The people expect the President to 
have both control and responsibility 
over employees and officers in the executive 
branch. The Founders believed 
that this design ensured effective government 
but, most importantly, protected 
our liberty from rogue government 
agents who might accrue vast 

power but be responsive and responsible 
to no elected, accountable authority. 
We just saw a dramatic example of 
that, as I know my colleague from 
Iowa understands, in the Dodd-Frank 
legislation, which created agencies of 
government that have no accountability 
whatsoever, even to the appropriations 
process. 

The legislation would also undermine 
congressional oversight of the IGs. For 
example, with this language, a congressional 
investigation conducted by committees 
into complaints that the IG 
has violated whistleblower protections 
could be labeled as ‘‘interfering with 
the independence of the IG’’ if the committee 
is communicating with an agency 
or department as part of that investigation. 


While I appreciate the effort to provide 
exemptions to the Department of 
Defense from this legislation, that exemption 
only relates to certain subsections 
and sentences of the overall 
Inspector General Act. Thus, many of 
these new rules and requirements 
would apply to the Department of Defense. 
For example, the new ‘‘timely 
access to information’’ requirement is 
included in the legislation, but there is 
no exemption for DOD from that requirement. 
It is unclear that existing 
exemptions would apply. 

The Senate Armed Services Committee 
conducts a regular, stringent 
oversight of the Department of Defense, 
including its inspector general. 
The committee and the Congress pass 
defense legislation on an annual basis, 
and this will be the 55th year we will 
do so. I do not believe there is any 
problem at present in the DOD IG that 
requires the solution this legislation 
would require, and in the event the 
Senate Armed Services Committee uncovers 
problems in the course of our 
oversight work, we will address those 
issues in our annual authorization legislation. 


Look, I have great affection for my 
friend from Iowa. It is obvious that 
this issue is important to him. It is obvious 
he has been working on it for 
years. If I could make a suggestion to 
my friend from Iowa, let’s set a time 
tomorrow to sit down with our staffs, 
find out what the problem is, see if we 
can get it resolved, and then that will 
give us 24 hours to try to resolve these 
issues. 

I understand what the Senator from 
Iowa is seeking and trying to do. I support 
the intent of that legislation. My 
responsibilities are oversight of the Department 
of Defense, the largest part 
of our government, and I have these 
concerns about it. I believe we can resolve 
these problems maybe with a 
face-to-face with our staffs’s engagement. 


For all those reasons, I regret to tell 
my friend from Iowa that I object. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection 
is heard. 

The Senator from Iowa. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I 
knew ahead of time that we would have 

this objection. The only difference between 
this objection this time and a 
year ago is the fact that a year ago we 
worked out differences with other committees 
of the Congress and had, evidently, 
99 Senators ready to pass this 
bill, except for Senator REID. So it is 
disappointing that when we work out 
one problem we had a year ago, that 
now we have serious objections, very 
numerous, as it worked out, considering 
the fact that the committee of 
jurisdiction—Senator JOHNSON is chair 
of the Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs Committee, passing this 
bill out unanimously, getting it cleared 
on both sides a year ago, except for 
Senator REID, and now all these other 
problems come up. 

It is impossible for me to respond to 
all the problems that have been presented 
by the Senator from Arizona. 
Obviously, the legislative process does 
emphasize cooperation between Members 
when there are differences, but I 
believe that it is probably going to be 
impossible this year for us to work out 
those differences. So I will be prepared 
to come back next year and pursue this 
legislation again and see what we can 
do. 

Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, could I 
just say to my friend from Iowa that I 
am willing to maybe have a sit-down 
sometime in the next 24 hours to see if 
we can get this done. 

Mr. GRASSLEY. OK. I will take that 
under advisement. 

I would simply close with further evidence 
of the importance of this legislation 
and try to respond to what the 
Senator from Arizona said about its 
impact on the Defense Department. 

Section 8 of the IG Act already contains 
an exception that allows the Secretary 
of Defense to prohibit the inspector 
general from conducting an investigation 
and gathering documents 
to protect national security. The exception 
is broad. The Secretary may 
block an IG investigation if it is necessary 
to preserve the national security 
interests of the United States and 
if the information the IG has requested 
concerns sensitive operation plans, intelligence 
matters, counterintelligence 
matters, ongoing criminal investigations, 
and other matters that would 
constitute a serious threat to national 
security if disclosed. 

In addition, cosponsors and I worked 
with the Committee on Armed Services 
last year to ensure that the bill makes 
the Secretary of Defense’s authority to 
restrict certain types of sensitive information 
even more clear than it was in 
the 1978 legislation. After we made 
those changes, Senator MCCAIN, as I 
have already said, cleared this version 
of the access language last year. 

I guess at this point I am going to 

yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 


S6658 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

TENNESSEE TRAGEDIES 

Mr. CORKER. Mr. President, I rise 
today to express my deepest sympathies 
and offer steadfast support to 
the countless Tennesseans who have 
experienced tragedy in the recent days. 

It has been a rough few weeks in our 
great State. Last week, my hometown 
of Chattanooga lost six young children 
in a tragic schoolbus crash. Today, 
countless East Tennesseans face a long 
road ahead after severe storms and tornadoes 
ripped through southeast Tennessee, 
leaving tremendous damage and 
taking the lives of two individuals in 
Polk County. 

Tomorrow morning, I will be in another 
area of our State that is dealing 
with unimaginable tragedy. As you 
have likely seen by now, the damage 
caused by wildfires in Sevier County, 
the place where my wife was raised, is 
heartbreaking. While officials continue 
to assess the full extent of the damage, 
we know that many have suffered tremendous 
loss. As of this morning, officials 
confirmed that they are still addressing 
the remnants of smoldering 
wildfires. More than 400 firefighters are 
supporting the effort. The exact number 
of structures affected remains unknown, 
but local officials are estimating 
700 impacted structures and 
more than 17,000 acres burned. More 
than 200 individuals remain in shelters, 
and just moments ago, we learned that 
10 fatalities have been confirmed. 

Sevier County is a special place, surrounded 
by some of the country’s most 
beautiful God-given amenities. Millions 
of people from around the world 
visit each year and have built memories 
in this treasured community. But 
as the mayor of Gatlinburg noted earlier 
today, ‘‘it’s not the attractions or 
the restaurants that make this place 
special, it’s the people’’ who live there. 

So many wonderful families call 
Sevier County home—tough, proud people 
whose roots in the area span generations. 


Those who know the area and these 
people are not at all surprised by the 
community response. The Nation has 
watched and read countless stories of 
selfless individuals—many who lost everything 
themselves—helping others. 
We have watched the mayor and city 
manager of Gatlinburg, both of whom 
lost their own homes, provide steadfast 
strength and grace. We have watched 
the Sevier County mayor close each 
press conference with a simple request: 
‘‘Pray for us.’’ 

The coming days, weeks, and months 
will not be easy. The recovery will take 
time. We are committed to doing everything 
that we all can do to help you 
rebuild. The support does not end when 
the cameras leave. Governor Haslam, 
Senator ALEXANDER, Congressman ROE, 
and I are ready to support requests for 
assistance for the recovery efforts. 
People throughout Tennessee and 
across the Nation will be back to visit 
very soon. Of course, as has been requested, 
we will continue to pray. 

I yield the floor. 

I suggest the absence of a quorum. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

MORNING BUSINESS 
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate be 
in a period of morning business, with 
Senators permitted to speak therein 
for up to 10 minutes each. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

WORLD AIDS DAY 
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I 
wish to discuss World AIDS Day. Thirty 
years ago, the National Academy of 
Sciences’s Institute of Medicine issued 
a report calling for a ‘‘massive media, 
educational and public health campaign 
to curb the spread of the HIV infection.’’ 
The global community heeded 
that call and today, on World AIDS 
Day, we celebrate progress that we 
have made in treating and preventing 
HIV/AIDS both at home and abroad and 
recommit ourselves to creating an 
AIDS-free generation. 
Earlier this year, I had the opportunity 
to visit an HIV/AIDS clinic in 
Namibia supported by the President’s 
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, 
PEPFAR, and the Global Fund. While 
there, I met a 30-year-old man named 
Simon who said he would not be alive 
without the international community’s 
HIV/AIDS assistance. While the individual 
stories of people like Simon are 
a testament to the hard-fought 
progress this global response has 
achieved, the aggregate impact of our 
efforts cannot be understated. 
PEPFAR has been a bipartisan success 
story that began with a strong commitment 
by President George W. Bush 
and grew under President Obama. It 
must continue to have broad-based support 
in a Trump administration and in 
the 115th Congress, so we can keep 
making inroads against this pernicious 
disease. 
Since 2005, AIDS-related deaths have 
fallen by 45 percent globally. In Africa, 
new HIV infections have declined 14 
percent since 2010, including a 66 percent 
reduction in new infections in 
children in the region. And today, 18.2 
million men, women, and children 
worldwide are on antiretroviral therapy, 
double the number of people who 
had access just 5 years ago. 
Nevertheless, there remains more 
work to be done. In my home State of 
Maryland, there were 1,334 new HIV diagnoses 
in 2015, ranking it the third 
highest adult HIV diagnosis rate per 
capita in the country. And globally, we 
are seeing data that indicates that 

AIDS-related deaths are actually increasing 
among adolescents. At home 
and abroad, such trends are troubling. 

We therefore cannot rest on our laurels. 
The United States must continue 
to lead this global fight. Through 
strong funding for PEPFAR and multilateral 
organizations like the Global 
Fund, we will ensure the continued 
commitment and leadership of partner 
countries reinforced with support from 
donor nations, civil society, and people 
living with HIV, faith-based organizations, 
the private sector, and foundations. 
And at here at home, we must 
ensure that the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, CDC, the National 
Institutes of Health, NIH, the 
Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, and 
our State, local, and community partners 
have the resources they need to 
continue making significant progress 
to prevent, treat, and eventually cure 
this disease. 

With our work cut out for us and the 
memories of far too many loved ones in 
our hearts, we strive on this World 
AIDS Day as an international community 
toward a world free of HIV/AIDS 
and recommit to mobilize the resources 
needed for treatment, to summon 
the compassion and understanding 
to prevent stigma, and to unleash our 
collective ingenuity and persistence in 
search of a cure. 

f 

REMEMBERING BISHOP EMERSON 
COLAW 

Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today 
I wish to remember a dear friend, 
Bishop Emerson Colaw, a devoted and 
widely respected leader of the United 
Methodist Church. Bishop Colaw passed 
away on October 11, 2016, at the age of 
94 in Ohio, where he lived during the 
final years of his life. 

Emerson Stephen Colaw was born November 
13, 1921, in Chanute, KS, and 
moved to Cincinnati at the age of 16 to 
attend God’s Bible School and College. 
A committed student, Colaw went on 
to earn a B.S. degree in 1944 from the 
University of Cincinnati, a bachelor of 
divinity, magna cum laude, in 1947 
from Drew Theological Seminary, and 
a master of arts in 1953 from Northwestern 
University in Evanston, IL. He 
also received honorary doctorates from 
five different institutions. 

Remembered as a strong preacher 
and compassionate leader who loved 
the church and had a heart for the clergy, 
Colaw served as a mentor and role 
model of Christian discipleship for colleagues, 
congregants, friends, and family. 
He began his ministry as a 
clergyperson for the United Methodist 
Church serving the New York Annual 
Conference and the Northern Illinois 
Annual Conference, where he served 
three pastorates over 14 years. 

In 1961, Colaw was appointed to Hyde 
Park Community United Methodist 
Church in Cincinnati, OH, part of the 
West Ohio Annual Conference. During 
his time in Cincinnati, Colaw spent 
many years as the moderator of a 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6659 

weekly television program titled ‘‘Dialogue’’ 
which featured area clergy from 
a variety of faiths. 

After 19 years of service to Hyde 
Park Community Methodist Church, in 
1980, Colaw was elected Bishop of the 
Minnesota Conference, where he served 
until retiring from the episcopacy in 
1988. He went on to serve as professor of 
Homiletics and Christian Ministry at 
the United Theological Seminary in 
Dayton, OH, from 1988 to 1999 and was 
its acting president in 1995–96. He later 
spent winters in Florida and served as 
bishop-in-residence at North Naples 
United Methodist Church. 

Emmerson and his late wife, Jane, 
were married more than 70 years and 
raised 4 children, 8 grandchildren, 12 
great-grandchildren, and a great-great-
granddaughter. 

I would like to honor Emmerson 
Colaw for his contributions to the 
United Methodist Church, his community, 
and our State. 

f 

REMEMBERING JAMES ‘‘JIM’’ F. 
DICKE 

Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today 
I wish to remember James ‘‘Jim’’ F. 
Dicke, a WWII veteran, an Ohio business 
leader, and a philanthropist. Mr. 
Dicke passed away on Friday, November 
11, 2016, at the age of 94. 

Jim Dicke was born in New York in 
1922 and raised in Dayton, OH, graduating 
from Stivers High School in 
1939. He was an honorary graduate of 
Culver Military Academy and was 
awarded an honorary DBA by Ohio 
Northern University. A WWII veteran, 
Jim served as a lieutenant instructor 
in the Army Air Corps. 

Following his military service, Jim 
returned to the Dayton region and 
worked with his father, Carl, and other 
family members to found a company 
called Crown Controls Company, now 
known as Crown Equipment Corporation, 
which is a leading global manufacturer 
of material handling equipment, 
currently in its fourth generation 
of family leadership. With over 
4,400 Ohio employees, the New Bremen, 
OH, based company has three manufacturing 
facilities along I–75 in west 
Ohio, as well as a branch in Vandalia. 
We are proud to have this innovative, 
successful, and competitive manufacturer 
in the Buckeye State. 

In addition to being a job creator and 
business leader, Jim Dicke was involved 
in many important community 
activities. He was a major benefactor 
to Ohio Northern University, where he 
was given an honorary doctorate in 
2000 and where there are a number of 
namesakes there in his honor, including 
James F. Dicke Hall, home to the 
James F. Dicke College of Business Administration, 
as well as the Dicke 
House, home of the university’s president. 


Jim and his late wife, Eilleen, were 
married for almost 73 years and raised 
two sons, six grandchildren, and seven 
great-grandchildren. 

I would like to honor James Frank 
Dicke for his many contributions to his 
community and our State. 

f 

150TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 
COLLEGE OF WOOSTER 

Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today 
I wish to honor the College of Wooster 
in recognition of its 150th anniversary 
of providing quality higher education 
to the citizens of Ohio. In 1865, Reverend 
James Reed, the minister of the 
First Presbyterian Church in Wooster, 
rallied the community to create a 
Presbyterian college in Wooster. On 
December 18, 1866, the then University 
of Wooster was incorporated by the 
Presbyterian Synod. In order to better 
reflect the institution’s offerings, the 
University of Wooster became the College 
of Wooster. Wooster’s first class 
consisted of 30 men and 4 women instructed 
by five faculty members; the 
college now enrolls over 2,000 students, 
representing 45 States and 44 countries, 
and instructed by 171 faculty members. 
Wooster now has more than 50 academic 
programs in business, the arts, 
humanities, and the sciences. 

The mission of the College of Wooster 
is to create ‘‘a community of independent 
minds, working together to become 
leaders of character and influence 
in an interdependent global community.’’ 
Wooster accomplishes this by 
offering a rigorous and dynamic liberal 
education that focuses on mentoring, 
applied learning, and project based 
learning where students develop attributes 
that are valued by employers 
and important for developing the leaders 
of tomorrow. It is helping to ensure 
that students are prepared with the 
skills they need for the jobs of the 21st 
century. Because of this, 92 percent of 
Wooster graduates are either employed 
or in graduate school within 1 year 
after receiving their diplomas. We are 
proud to have this extraordinary independent 
college in Ohio. 

I am here to honor the College of 
Wooster and to congratulate all of 
those who contributed to making its 
first 150 years such a success. 

f 

HONORING ERIC DALE ELLSWORTH 

Mr. LEE. Mr. President, on Friday, 
November 18, 2016, Eric Ellsworth of 
Brigham City, UT, began his day like 
virtually every other day of his adult 
life. He put on his uniform and drove to 
work fully aware that it could be his 
last day on Earth. Eric was a State 
trooper with the Utah Highway Patrol, 
and for 7 years this is how he began 
each day: by summoning enough courage 
to last most men a lifetime. 

Why did he do it? 

I never had the privilege of meeting 
Eric. But over the past several days I 
have read a great deal about him, and 
based on the comments of his family, 
friends, and colleagues, I suspect the 
answer is that Eric wouldn’t have 
wanted it any other way. 

Like all law enforcement officers, the 
life of a trooper is a life of service to 

one’s community and one’s fellow 
man—the vulnerable, the needy, and 
the insecure. It is also a life of sacrifice. 
And on November 18, 2016—that 
Friday that began like all the others— 
Trooper Ellsworth made the ultimate 
sacrifice. 

While directing traffic to avoid a 
roadway hazard along a rural stretch of 
State Route 13 near Garland in Box 
Elder County, Trooper Ellsworth was 
accidentally struck by a passing vehicle. 
For 4 days, he remained in critical 
condition at Intermountain Medical 
Center, defying the odds and fighting 
to live another day in that uniform. 
But on November 22, 2016, Eric succumbed 
to the injuries sustained in the 
crash and passed from this life into the 
next. He died honorably, doing what he 
loved—and lived—to do: helping others 
and serving his community. 

Indeed, if you look at the trajectory 
of Eric’s life, you are left with the distinct 
impression that the man was destined, 
from the very start, to be a highway 
patrol trooper. 

He was the seventh of nine children— 
and the eldest brother—which must 
have taught him at an early age what 
it means to live with duties and obligations 
toward others. And his hero—his 
father, Ronald Ellsworth, who was also 
a highway trooper—showed him what 
courage as a daily discipline looks like. 

Like most sons who revere their 
dads, Eric grew up wanting to follow in 
his father’s footsteps. And so he served. 

He served his community, as an 
Eagle Scout and an active member of 
his church, the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. He served his 
family, as a loving husband to his wife 
and high-school sweetheart, Janica, 
and a nurturing father to their three 
sons, Bennett, Ian, and Oliver. He 
served his fellow citizens and countrymen 
as a highway trooper who kept 
watch over the roads in northern Utah. 
And most importantly to Eric, he 
served his Heavenly Father, as a missionary 
in Winnipeg, Canada, and as a 
faithful witness of Jesus Christ. 

At 31 years of age, Trooper Ellsworth’s 
life was cut tragically short. 
But in those 31 years, he did more to 
help his fellow man than most of us 
can hope to accomplish in a lifetime. 
He lived a full and bighearted life, always 
ready to answer the call of service 
and dedicated to making the world 
not just safer but better for everyone. 

This is Eric Ellsworth’s legacy, his 
gift to the world, and his sons’ greatest 
inheritance: the enduring example of a 
life well lived. 

May he rest in peace, and may God 
bless his family and the community he 
served—it will never be the same without 
him. 

Thank you. 

f 

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 

IDAHO HOMETOWN HERO MEDAL 
S Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, today I 
wish to honor the 2016 Idaho Hometown 
Hero medalists. 


S6660 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

Drs. Fahim and Naeem Rahim established 
the Idaho Hometown Hero medal 
in 2011 to recognize outstanding Idahoans 
working for the betterment of 
our communities. Medalists are selected 
from nominations sought from 
the public throughout the State and 
must meet criteria that include being 
dedicated to hard work, self-improvement, 
and community service. 

In this 6th year of the presentation of 
this honor, 10 Idahoans from communities 
across Idaho are 2016 Hometown 
Hero medal recipients. Executive Director 
of Suicide Prevention Action 
Network of Idaho Jeni Griffin of Idaho 
Falls is recognized for her dedication of 
more than 10 years to promoting suicide 
prevention in Idaho. Nationally 
recognized teacher, coach, and mentor 
Holly Kartchner of Blackfoot received 
the award for her commitment to education 
in southeastern Idaho, leading 
her students to reach national championships. 
Former Coeur d’Alene police 
officer and Air Force veteran Mike 
Kralicek is honored for the inspiration 
he provides to other public servants to 
be better prepared for overcoming adversity 
and his leadership in helping 
law enforcement families in times of 
crisis. 

Idaho Falls attorney Doug Nelson is 
recognized for dedicating more than 
three decades to leading, supporting, 
and advocating for children’s activity 
programs and multiple charitable organizations 
and mentoring disadvantaged 
single mothers. Wiley Petersen, a professional 
bullrider, coach, motivational 
speaker, and mentor who grew up in 
Fort Hall received the medal for his efforts 
to give back to his Native American 
community and help further the 
progress of the Native American people. 
Sonya Rosario, a filmmaker from 
Meridian and the founder and executive 
director of Women of Color Alliance, is 
honored for her work and films to help 
heal Native communities. Zeze 
Rwasama of Twin Falls, who is originally 
from Congo, is the director of the 
College of Southern Idaho’s refugee 
program, and is recognized for his work 
to educate, integrate and build bridges 
between refugees and their new communities. 


Tyvan Schmitt, of Pocatello, who 
served in the U.S. Navy, is a posthumous 
awardee for his bravery and 
courage as he attempted to prevent a 
large catastrophe and for his devotion 
to helping the homeless, the schools, 
and neighbors. Linda Scott, a Pocatello 
native who served in the U.S. Army, is 
recognized for her volunteer efforts and 
commitment of her time, energy, resources, 
and compassion to helping 
others in need. Pocatello resident and 
Spanish professor Dr. Helen Cathleen 
Tarp is recognized for her work as 
founding program director of the Spanish 
for Health Professions major at 
Idaho State University, which is the 
only major of its kind in the country. 

These remarkable Idahoans are 
among the 56 Idahoans of diverse backgrounds 
and a wide range of ages who 

have been honored as Hometown Hero 
Award recipients since the award’s establishment. 
I commend the Rahims, 
the award’s committee members, the 
cosponsors, volunteers, and other organizations 
supporting this honor for 
their work to shed light on extraordinary 
service in our communities. 

These Hometown Hero award recipients 
and countless other Idahoans lead 
by example, inspiring others to go 
above and beyond in assisting others 
and improving our communities. Congratulations 
to the 2016 Hometown 
Hero award recipients on your achievements, 
and thank you for your efforts 
to better our communities.S 

f 

TRIBUTE TO ROYCE PERRETT 
S Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this 
week, I have the distinct honor of recognizing 
Royce Perrett of Wibaux 
County, a true American cowboy, who 
will celebrate his 93rd birthday this 
weekend. While ranching has been his 
profession for most of his life, he is 
also a Navy veteran, a devoted husband 
of over 70 years, a father of three children, 
and a valued member of the 
ranching community between Sidney 
and Wibaux. 
Growing up in rural Nebraska, Mr. 
Perrett made do without many of the 
modern comforts we enjoy today: electricity, 
refrigeration, and modern 
transportation. When courting Nell Anderson, 
who would later become his 
wife, he traveled 10 miles by horse on 
the weekend to spend time with her, 
and on his way home Sunday night, he 
would sleep on his horse, waking up 
when the horse would stop to open 
gates. 
After WWII and his service in the 
Navy was completed, Mr. Perrett returned 
to doing what he loves: ranching. 
His pursuits took him and his family 
from the Sandhills of Nebraska, to 
Isabel, SD, and then in his early 60s, 
when most would be considering retirement, 
Mr. Perrett came to Montana to 
manage the Blue Mountain Ranch, a 
13,000-acre ranch north of Wibaux. 
While Mr. Perrett has had to trade in 
his saddle for a seat in a side-by-side 
ATV in recent years, he still manages 
the Blue Mountain Ranch full time for 
Gartner-Denowh Angus Ranch and puts 
in long hours fixing fences, checking 
water, and watching over 500 cows that 
graze there in the summer and fall. 
When he isn’t busy working, he enjoys 
collecting Western memorabilia 
and sharing his many stories about 
ranching, his life adventures, and his 
self-described greatest achievement: 
his marriage of over 70 years. As I 
found out recently when I stopped to 
visit Mr. Perrett, his door is always 
open to visitors and you had better be 
ready for a good conversation and history 
lesson if you stop by.S 

f 

MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE 
At 11:32 a.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 

Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House agrees to the 
amendment of the Senate to the bill 

(H.R. 34) to authorize and strengthen 
the tsunami detection, forecast, warning, 
research, and mitigation program 
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, and for other 
purposes, with an amendment, in which 
it requests the concurrence of the Senate. 
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED 

At 12:30 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the Speaker has signed 
the following enrolled bills: 

H.R. 4419. An act to update the financial 
disclosure requirements for judges of the 
District of Columbia courts and to make 
other improvements to the District of Columbia 
courts. 
H.R. 5785. An act to amend title 5, United 
States Code, to provide for an annuity supplement 
for certain air traffic controllers. 
The enrolled bills were subsequently 
signed by the President pro tempore 
(Mr. HATCH). 

At 1:37 p.m., a message from the 
House of Representatives, delivered by 
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, announced 
that the House has passed the 
following bills, without amendment: 

S. 1555. An act to award a Congressional 
Gold Medal, collectively, to the Filipino veterans 
of World War II, in recognition of the 
dedicated service of the veterans during 
World War II. 
S. 2234. An act to award the Congressional 
Gold Medal, collectively, to the members of 
the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) in recognition 
of their superior service and major 
contributions during World War II. 
The message also announced that the 
House has passed the following bills, in 
which it requests the concurrence of 
the Senate: 

H.R. 2992. An act to award a Congressional 
Gold Medal, collectively, to the U.S. Merchant 
Marine of World War II, in recognition 
of their dedicated and vital service during 
World War II. 
H.R. 5047. An act to direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Labor 
to provide information to veterans and members 
of the Armed Forces about articulation 
agreements between institutions of higher 
learning, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 5384. An act to amend title 44, United 
States Code, to restrict the distribution of 
free printed copies of the Federal Register to 
Members of Congress and other officers and 
employees of the United States, and for 
other purposes. 
H.R. 5948. An act to designate the facility 
of the United States Postal Service located 
at 830 Kuhn Drive in Chula Vista, California, 
as the ‘‘Jonathan ‘J.D.’ De Guzman Post Office 
Building’’. 
H.R. 6009. An act to ensure the effective 
processing of mail by Federal agencies, and 
for other purposes. 
H.R. 6138. An act to designate the facility 
of the United States Postal Service located 
at 560 East Pleasant Valley Road, Port Hueneme, 
California, as the U.S. Naval Construction 
Battalion ‘‘Seabees’’ Fallen Heroes 
Post Office Building. 
H.R. 6186. An act to amend title 5, United 
States Code, to extend certain protections 
against prohibited personnel practices, and 
for other purposes. 

December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6661 

H.R. 6282. An act to designate the facility 
of the United States Postal Service located 
at 2024 Jerome Avenue, in Bronx, New York, 
as the ‘‘Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. Post Office 
Building’’. 
H.R. 6302. An act to provide an increase in 
premium pay for United States Secret Service 
agents performing protective services 
during 2016, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 6303 An act to designate facilities of 
the United States Postal Service, to establish 
new ZIP Codes, and for other purposes. 
H.R. 6304. An act to designate the facility 
of the United States Postal Service located 
at 501 North Main Street in Florence, Arizona, 
as the ‘‘Adolfo ‘Harpo’ Celaya Post Office’’. 
H.R. 6393. An act to authorize appropriations 
for fiscal year 2017 for intelligence and 
intelligence-related activities of the United 
States Government, the Community Management 
Account, and the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability 
System, and for other purposes. 
The message further announced that 
the House agreed to the following concurrent 
resolution, in which it requests 
the concurrence of the Senate: 

H. Con. Res. 174. Concurrent resolution directing 
the Clerk of the House of Representatives 
to make a correction in the enrollment 
of H.R. 34. 
f 

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 

The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and documents, 
and were referred as indicated: 

EC–7767. A communication from the Associate 
General Counsel, Office of the General 
Counsel, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
a vacancy in the position of Deputy Secretary 
of Agriculture, received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
29, 2016; to the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry. 

EC–7768. A communication from the Associate 
General Counsel, Office of the General 
Counsel, Department of Agriculture, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
a vacancy in the position of Under Secretary 
for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 29, 2016; to the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. 


EC–7769. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Export Administration, 
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department 
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Clarifications 
and Revisions to Military Aircraft, 
Gas Turbine Engines and Related Items License 
Requirements’’ (RIN0694–AG76) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 28, 2016; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–7770. A communication from the Chief 
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management 
Agency, Department of Homeland Security, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community 
Eligibility; Massachusetts: Marshfield, Town 
of, Plymouth County’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) 
(Docket No. FEMA–2016–0002)) received in the 
Office of the President of the Senate on November 
28, 2016; to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–7771. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a six-month periodic report on 

the national emergency with respect to the 
stabilization of Iraq that was declared in Executive 
Order 13303 of May 22, 2003; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs. 

EC–7772. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a final report on the national 
emergency with respect to Burma that was 
declared in Executive Order 13047 of May 20, 
1997; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–7773. A communication from the Secretary 
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a six-month periodic report on 
the national emergency with respect to 
Yemen that was originally declared in Executive 
Order 13611 on May 16, 2012; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–7774. A communication from the Director 
of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revision 
of the FDIC’s Freedom of Information 
Act Regulations’’ (RIN3064–AE53) received in 
the Office of the President of the Senate on 
November 29, 2016; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

EC–7775. A communication from the General 
Counsel of the National Credit Union 
Administration, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Civil Monetary 
Penalty Inflation Adjustment’’ 
(RIN3133–AE59) received in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 30, 
2016; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–7776. A communication from the Senior 
Counsel, Legal Division, Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Prepaid 
Accounts Under the electronic Fund 
Transfer Act (Regulation E) and the Truth in 
Lending Act (Regulation Z)’’ (RIN3170–AA22) 
received in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 30, 2016; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 


EC–7777. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, a six-month periodic report relative to 
the continuation of the national emergency 
with respect to the proliferation of weapons 
of mass destruction that was originally declared 
in Executive Order 12938 of November 
14, 1994; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
and Urban Affairs. 

EC–7778. A communication from the Chief 
of the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report 
relative to the Department’s proposal to 
accept a 3,323-acre donation from the American 
River Conservancy; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 

EC–7779. A communication from the Counsel 
to the Director, Office of Hearings and 
Appeals, Department of the Interior, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Resource Agency Hearings and Alternatives 
Development Procedures in Hydropower 
Licenses’’ (RIN0596–AC42; RIN1090– 
AA91; RIN0648–AU01) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 29, 
2016; to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 

EC–7780. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Revision of Certain Federal Water 
Quality Criteria Applicable to Washington’’ 
((RIN2040–AF56) (FRL No. 9955–40–OW)) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 28, 2016; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–7781. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 

Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘National Pollutant Discharge Elimination 
System (NPDES) Municipal Separate 
Storm Sewer System General Permit Remand 
Rule’’ ((RIN2040–AF57) (FRL No. 9955– 
11–OW)) received in the Office of the President 
of the Senate on November 28, 2016; to 
the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 

EC–7782. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Air Quality Plans; Tennessee; Infrastructure 
Requirements for the 2010 Sulfur 
Dioxide National Ambient Air Quality 
Standard’’ (FRL No. 9955–58–Region 4) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 28, 2016; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–7783. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Air Plan Approval: AK; Permitting 
Fees Revision’’ (FRL No. 9955–48–Region 10) 
received in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 28, 2016; to the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works. 

EC–7784. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Air Plan Approval; MA; Decommissioning 
of Stage II Vapor Recovery Systems’’ 
(FRL No. 9950–92–Region 1) received in the 
Office of the President of the Senate on November 
28, 2016; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–7785. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘2015 Revision and Confidentiality Determinations 
for Data Elements Under the 
Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule’’ ((RIN2060– 
AS60) (FRL No. 9954–42–OAR)) received in the 
Office of the President of the Senate on November 
28, 2016; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 

EC–7786. A communication from the Director 
of the Regulatory Management Division, 
Environmental Protection Agency, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Effluent Limitations Guidelines and 
Standards for the Oil and Gas Extraction 
Point Source Category—Implementation 
Date Extension’’ ((RIN2040–AF68) (FRL No. 
9955–65–OW)) received in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 28, 
2016; to the Committee on Environment and 
Public Works. 

EC–7787. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislation, Department of 
Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Recovery 
Auditing in Medicare Fee-for-Service for Fiscal 
Year 2015’’; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7788. A communication from the Director, 
Office of Regulations and Reports Clearance, 
Social Security Administration, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Revised Medical Criteria for Evaluating 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) 
Infection and for Evaluating Functional 
Limitations in Immune system Disorders’’ 
(RIN0960–AG71) received in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 28, 
2016; to the Committee on Finance. 

EC–7789. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department 
of State, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amendment 
to the International Traffic in Arms 
Regulations: Corrections and Clarifications’’ 
(RIN1400–AE05) received in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 28, 
2016; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 


S6662 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

EC–7790. A communication from the Supervisory 
Management and Program Analyst, 
Office of Acquisition and Assistance, U.S. 
Agency for International Development, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Requirement for Nondiscrimination 
against End-Users of Supplies 
or Services (’Beneficiaries’) under USAID– 
Funded Contracts’’ (RIN0412–AA81) received 
in the Office of the President of the Senate 
on November 28, 2016; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 

EC–7791. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations and Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Indirect Food Additives: 
Paper and Paperboard Components’’ (Docket 
No. FDA–2016–F–1153) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
28, 2016; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–7792. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations and Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Medical Gas Containers and 
Closures; Current Good Manufacturing Practice 
Requirements’’ ((RIN0910–AC53) (Docket 
No. FDA–2005–N–0343)) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
28, 2016; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–7793. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations and Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Uniform Compliance Date 
for Food Labeling Regulations’’ (Docket No. 
FDA–2000–N–0011) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 28, 
2016; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–7794. A communication from the Director 
of Regulations and Policy Management 
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, Department 
of Health and Human Services, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Food and Drug Administration 
Review and Action on Over-the-Counter 
Time and Extent Applications’’ ((RIN0910– 
AH30) (Docket No. FDA–2016–N–0543)) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 28, 2016; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 

EC–7795. A communication from the Assistant 
General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, 
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Allocation of assets in Single-
Employer Plans; Valuation of Benefits 
and Assets; Expected Retirement Age’’ (29 
CFR Part 4044) received in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 28, 
2016; to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions. 

EC–7796. A communication from the Administrator, 
Environmental Protection 
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
Department’s Semiannual Report from the 
Office of the Inspector General for the period 
from April 1, 2016 through September 30, 2016; 
to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7797. A communication from the Chairman, 
National Endowment for the Arts, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Endowment’s 
Agency Financial Report for fiscal 
year 2016; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7798. A communication from the Chairman 
of the National Endowment for the 
Arts, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
Semiannual Report of the Inspector General 

and the Chairman’s Semiannual Report on 
Final Action Resulting from Audit Reports, 
Inspection Reports, and Evaluation Reports 
for the period from April 1, 2016 through September 
30, 2016; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7799. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Career and Career-Conditional 
Employment’’ (RIN3206–AM64) received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 28, 2016; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7800. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Office of Personnel Management, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Veterans’ Preference’’ 
(RIN3206–AM79) received in the Office of the 
President of the Senate on November 28, 
2016; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7801. A communication from the Acting 
Director, Planning and Policy Analysis, Office 
of Personnel Management, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled 
‘‘Federal Employees’ Health Benefits Program 
Coverage for Certain Firefighters and 
Intermittent Emergency Response Personnel’’ 
(RIN3206–AM66) received in the Office 
of the President of the Senate on November 
28, 2016; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7802. A communication from the Secretary 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the Department of Energy’s Agency Financial 
Report for fiscal year 2016; to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7803. communication from the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to 
the Department of Defense Agency Financial 
Report (AFR) for fiscal year 2016; to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7804. A communication from the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Department of Veterans 
Affairs’ Semiannual Report of the Inspector 
General for the period from April 1, 2016 
through September 30, 2016; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7805. A communication from the Chairman, 
National Endowment for the Arts, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Endowment’s 
Agency Financial Report for fiscal 
year 2016; to the Committee on Homeland Security 
and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7806. A communication from the Chairman, 
Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Agency 
Financial Report for fiscal year 2016; to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7807. A communication from the Chairman, 
Merit Systems Protection Board, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Board’s 
Agency Financial Report for fiscal year 2016; 
to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7808. A communication from the Chairman, 
Federal Maritime Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Commission’s 
Performance and Accountability Report for 
fiscal year 2016; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7809. A communication from the Administrator, 
Saint Lawrence Seaway Development 
Corporation, Department of Transportation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
Corporation’s annual financial audit and 
management report for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016; to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 


EC–7810. A communication from the Chairwoman 
of the Federal Trade Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Commission’s 
fiscal year 2016 Agency Financial Report 
and the Uniform Resource Locator 
(URL) for the report; to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. 


EC–7811. A communication from the Secretary 
of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the Department of Energy’s Agency Financial 
Report for fiscal year 2016; to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7812. A communication from the Chief 
Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge 
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the Office of Inspector General’s Semiannual 
Report for the period of April 1 , 2016 through 
September 30, 2016, and the Millennium Challenge 
Corporation’s response; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7813. A communication from the Associate 
Administrator, Office of Congressional 
and Legislative Affairs, Small Business Administration, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the 
Administration’s fiscal year 2016 Agency Financial 
Report; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7814. A communication from the Chief 
Executive Officer, Corporation for National 
and Community Service, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the Semiannual Report of the 
Inspector General and the Corporation for 
National and Community Service’s Response 
and Report on Final Action for the period 
from April 1, 2016 through September 30, 2016; 
to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7815. A communication from the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the Department’s 
Semiannual Report of the Inspector General 
for the period from April 1, 2016 through September 
30, 2016; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7816. A communication from the Secretary 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the Department of Transportation’s 
Semiannual Report of the Inspector 
General for the period from April 1, 2016 
through September 30, 2016; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7817. A communication from the Federal 
Co-Chair, Appalachian Regional Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
Commission’s Semiannual Report of the Inspector 
General for the period from April 1, 
2016 through September 30, 2016; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7818. A communication from the Chairman, 
Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Agency 
Financial Report for fiscal year 2016; to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

EC–7819. A communication from the Board 
Members of the Railroad Retirement Board, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Semiannual 
Report of the Inspector General for 
the period from April 1, 2016 through September 
30, 2016; to the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs. 

EC–7820. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislation, Department of 
Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘2015 Outcome 
Evaluations of Administration for Native 
Americans (ANA) Projects Report to 
Congress’’; to the Committee on Indian Affairs. 


EC–7821. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislation, Department of 
Health and Human Services, transmitting, 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6663 

pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Fiscal 
Year (FY) 2015 Report to Congress on Contract 
Funding of Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act Awards’’; to 
the Committee on Indian Affairs. 

EC–7822. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislation, Department of 
Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Fiscal 
Year 2012 Report to Congress on Administration 
of the Tribal Self-Governance Program’’; 
to the Committee on Indian Affairs. 

EC–7823. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislation, Department of 
Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Fiscal 
Year 2013 Report to Congress on Administration 
of the Tribal Self-Governance Program’’; 
to the Committee on Indian Affairs. 

EC–7824. A communication from the Assistant 
Secretary for Legislation, Department of 
Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Fiscal 
Year 2014 Report to Congress on Administration 
of the Tribal Self-Governance Program’’; 
to the Committee on Indian Affairs. 

EC–7825. A communication from the Executive 
Analyst (Political), Department of 
Health and Human Services, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, a report relative to a vacancy 
in the position of Commissioner, Administration 
on Native Americans, Department 
of Health and Human Services, received 
in the Office of the President of the 
Senate on November 30, 2016; to the Committee 
on Indian Affairs. 

EC–7826. A communication from the Executive 
Director, Consumer Product Safety 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the Commission’s 2016–2020 Strategic Plan; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–7827. A communication from the Executive 
Director, Consumer Product Safety 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the Commission’s 2016–2020 Strategic Plan; 
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation. 

EC–7828. A communication from the Attorney-
Advisor, Office of the Secretary, Department 
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, a report relative to a vacancy 
for the position of Assistant Secretary for 
Research and Technology, Department of 
Transportation, received in the office of the 
President of the Senate on November 30, 
2016; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7829. A communication from the Deputy 
Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the report of a rule 
entitled ‘‘Protecting the Privacy of Customers 
of Broadband and Other Telecommunications 
Services’’ ((FCC 16–148) (WC 
Docket No. 16–106)) received in the Office of 
the President of the Senate on November 30, 
2016; to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation. 

EC–7830. A communication from the Deputy 
Bureau Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, 
Federal Communications Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of 
a rule entitled ‘‘Connect America Fund’’ 
((FCC 16–143) (WC Docket No. 10–90)) received 
in the Office of the President of the Senate 
on November 30, 2016; to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 

f 

PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS 
The following petitions and memorials 
were laid before the Senate and 
were referred or ordered to lie on the 
table as indicated: 
POM–256. A joint resolution adopted by the 
General Assembly of the State of Indiana re


questing the United States Congress to call a 
constitutional convention for the purpose of 
proposing an amendment to the United 
States Constitution concerning imposition 
of fiscal restraints on the federal government, 
limitations of the powers and jurisdiction 
of federal powers, and the limitation of 
the terms of office for its officials and for 
members of Congress; to the Committee on 
the Judiciary. 

SENATE ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 14 
Section 1. The legislature of the State of 
Indiana hereby applies to Congress, under 
the provisions of Article V of the Constitution 
of the United States, for the calling of 
a convention of the states limited to proposing 
amendments to the Constitution of 
the United States that impose fiscal restraints 
of the federal government, limit the 
power and jurisdiction of the federal government, 
and limit the terms of office for its officials 
and for members of Congress. 
Section 2. The secretary of state is hereby 
directed to transmit copies of this application 
to the President and Secretary of the 
United States Senate and to the Speaker and 
Clerk of the United States House of Representatives, 
and copies to the members of 
the said Senate and House of Representatives 
from this State; also to transmit copies 
hereof to the presiding officers of each of the 
legislative houses in the several States, requesting 
their cooperation. 
Section 3. This application constitutes a 
continuing application in accordance with 
Article V of the Constitution of the United 
States until the legislatures of at least two-
thirds of the several States have made applications 
on the same subject. 

POM–257. A petition from a citizen of the 
State of Texas relative to a proposed amendment 
to the United States Constitution; to 
the Committee on the Judiciary. 

f 

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES 

The following reports of committees 
were submitted: 

By Mr. THUNE, from the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation, 
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute: 


S. 3084. A bill to invest in innovation 
through research and development, and to 
improve the competitiveness of the United 
States (Rept. No. 114–389). 
By Mr. CORKER, from the Committee on 
Foreign Relations, with an amendment in 
the nature of a substitute: 

S. 2201. A bill to promote international 
trade, and for other purposes. 
f 

EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF 
COMMITTEES 

The following executive reports of 
nominations were submitted: 

By Mr. MCCAIN for the Committee on 
Armed Services. 

Air Force nomination of Brig. Gen. Robert 

N. Polumbo, to be Major General. 
Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Jerry 
D. Harris, Jr., to be Lieutenant General. 
Air Force nomination of Lt. Gen. James M. 
Holmes, to be General. 
Navy nomination of Rear Adm. William K. 
Lescher, to be Vice Admiral. 
Navy nomination of Capt. Kelly A. 
Aeschbach, to be Rear Admiral (lower half). 
Navy nomination of Vice Adm. Dixon R. 
Smith, to be Vice Admiral. 
Air Force nominations beginning with Col. 
Joel E. DeGroot and ending with Col. David 

D. Zwart, which nominations were received 
by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 

Air Force nominations beginning with 
Brig. Gen. David P. Baczewski and ending 
with Brig. Gen. Roger E. Williams, Jr., which 
nominations were received by the Senate and 
appeared in the Congressional Record on November 
15, 2016. 

Air Force nomination of Brig. Gen. Jesse 

T. Simmons, Jr., to be Major General. 
Air Force nominations beginning with 
Brig. Gen. David M. McMinn and ending with 
Brig. Gen. Ronald E. Paul, which nominations 
were received by the Senate and appeared 
in the Congressional Record on November 
15, 2016. 

Air Force nomination of Col. William E. 
Dickens, Jr., to be Brigadier General. 

Air Force nominations beginning with Col. 
Brian K. Borgen and ending with Col. Constance 
M. Von Hoffman, which nominations 
were received by the Senate and appeared in 
the Congressional Record on November 15, 
2016. 

Air Force nomination of Brig. Gen. Randolph 
J. Staudenraus, to be Major General. 

Air Force nominations beginning with 
Brig. Gen. Craig L. LaFave and ending with 
Brig. Gen. Patrick M. Wade, which nominations 
were received by the Senate and appeared 
in the Congressional Record on November 
15, 2016. 

Air Force nomination of Col. Stephen C. 
Melton, to be Brigadier General. 

Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Paul E. 
Funk II, to be Lieutenant General. 

Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Gary J. 
Volesky, to be Lieutenant General. 

Army nomination of Maj. Gen. James H. 
Dickinson, to be Lieutenant General. 

Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Patrick M. 
Hamilton, to be Major General. 

Army nominations beginning with Brig. 
Gen. Benjamin F. Adams III and ending with 
Brig. Gen. Michael R. Zerbonia, which nominations 
were received by the Senate and appeared 
in the Congressional Record on November 
15, 2016. 

Army nomination of Col. Mark A. Piterski, 
to be Brigadier General. 

Army nomination of Col. Ellis F. Hopkins 
III, to be Brigadier General. 

Army nominations beginning with Col. Michael 
A. Abell and ending with Col. Louis W. 
Wilham, which nominations were received by 
the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 

Navy nomination of Rear Adm. (lh) Mary 

M. Jackson, to be Vice Admiral. 
Mr. MCCAIN. Mr. President, for the 
Committee on Armed Services I report 
favorably the following nomination 
lists which were printed in the 
RECORDS on the dates indicated, and 
ask unanimous consent, to save the expense 
of reprinting on the Executive 
Calendar that these nominations lie at 
the Secretary’s desk for the information 
of Senators. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
Air Force nominations beginning with 
Daniel J. Bessmer and ending with Christie 
Barton Walton, which nominations were received 
by the Senate and appeared in the 
Congressional Record on June 16, 2016. 
Air Force nominations beginning with Kip 

T. Averett and ending with Daniel S. Walker, 
which nominations were received by the Senate 
and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 
Air Force nominations beginning with 
Shawn M. Garcia and ending with Morgan H. 
Laird, which nominations were received by 
the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 


S6664 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

Air Force nominations beginning with 
Daniel C. Abell and ending with Peter Zwart, 
which nominations were received by the Senate 
and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 

Air Force nomination of Gary A. Fairchild, 
to be Colonel. 

Air Force nomination of Megan M. Luka, 
to be Major. 

Air Force nominations beginning with 
Brandon D. Clint and ending with Edmund J. 
Rutherford, which nominations were received 
by the Senate and appeared in the 
Congressional Record on November 15, 2016. 

Air Force nominations beginning with 
Isamettin A. Aral and ending with Leslie 
Ann Zyzda-Martin, which nominations were 
received by the Senate and appeared in the 
Congressional Record on November 15, 2016. 

Army nomination of Brian C. Garver, to be 
Major. 

Army nomination of Clifford D. Johnston, 
to be Major. 

Army nomination of Reinaldo Gonzalez II, 
to be Major. 

Army nomination of Graham F. Inman, to 
be Major. 

Army nomination of Eileen K. Jenkins, to 
be Lieutenant Colonel. 

Army nomination of Jeffrey M. Farris, to 
be Colonel. 

Army nomination of Matthew T. Bell, to 
be Lieutenant Colonel. 

Army nomination of Melissa B. Reister, to 
be Major. 

Army nomination of Charles M. Causey, to 
be Colonel. 

Army nominations beginning with Stephen 

A. Labate and ending with Raymond J. Orr, 
which nominations were received by the Senate 
and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 
Army nomination of Roxanne E. Wallace, 
to be Lieutenant Colonel. 

Army nomination of Eric A. Mitchell, to be 
Major. 

Army nomination of Jonathan J. 
Vannatta, to be Colonel. 

Army nomination of Dennis D. Calloway, 
to be Lieutenant Colonel. 

Army nominations beginning with Kenneth 
L. Alford and ending with Bruce T. 
Sidebotham, which nominations were received 
by the Senate and appeared in the 
Congressional Record on November 15, 2016. 

Army nomination of Henry Spring, Jr., to 
be Colonel. 
Army nomination of Craig A. Yunker, to 
be Colonel. 
Army nomination of Cornelius J. Pope, to 
be Lieutenant Colonel. 
Army nomination of Anthony K. McConnell, 
to be Colonel. 
Army nomination of Jennifer L. Cummings, 
to be Lieutenant Colonel. 
Army nominations beginning with Donald 

J. Erpenbach and ending with Timothy A. 
Fanter, which nominations were received by 
the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 
Army nomination of Carl I. Shaia, to be 
Colonel. 
Army nomination of Lisa M. Barden, to be 
Lieutenant Colonel. 
Army nomination of Roger D. Lyles, to be 
Colonel. 
Army nomination of Clara A. Bieganek, to 
be Lieutenant Colonel. 
Army nomination of Isaiah M. Garfias, to 
be Major. 
Army nomination of Louis E. Herrera, to 
be Colonel. 
Army nomination of Schnicka L. Singleton, 
to be Major. 
Army nomination of John R. Burchfield, to 
be Colonel. 
Army nomination of Elizabeth S. 
Eatonferenzi, to be Major. 

Army nomination of Richard D. Mina, to 
be Major. 

Army nominations beginning with 
Temidayo L. Anderson and ending with 
D0127914, which nominations were received 
by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 

Army nomination of Richard A. Gautier, 
Jr., to be Major. 

Army nomination of Joseph A. Papenfus, 
to be Colonel. 

Army nominations beginning with Stuart 

G. Baker and ending with Walter D. 
Venneman, which nominations were received 
by the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 
Army nomination of David S. Yuen, to be 
Colonel. 
Army nomination of Donta A. White, to be 
Major. 
Army nomination of Tony A. Hampton, to 
be Major. 
Army nominations beginning with Charles 

C. Anderson and ending with James D. 
Willson, which nominations were received by 
the Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 
Army nomination of David A. Yasenchock, 
to be Colonel. 
Army nomination of Aaron C. Ramiro, to 
be Major. 
Army nomination of Richard M. Strong, to 
be Lieutenant Colonel. 
Army nomination of Brendon S. Baker, to 
be Major. 
Army nominations beginning with Lanny 

J. Acosta, Jr. and ending with Lance B. 
Turlington, which nominations were received 
by the Senate and appeared in the 
Congressional Record on November 15, 2016. 
Army nomination of Andrew J. Wade, to be 
Colonel. 

Army nomination of Christopher S. Besser, 
to be Lieutenant Colonel. 

Army nomination of Chad C. Black, to be 
Major. 

Army nomination of Thomas D. Starkey, 
to be Colonel. 

Marine Corps nomination of Joshua D. 
Fitzgarrald, to be Major. 

Marine Corps nomination of Anthony C. 
Lyons, to be Lieutenant Colonel. 

Navy nomination of Suzanne L. Hopkins, 
to be Lieutenant Commander. 

Navy nominations beginning with Jafar A. 
Ali and ending with Anthony K. Wolverton, 
which nominations were received by the Senate 
and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 

Navy nomination of Meryl A. Severson III, 
to be Captain. 

Navy nomination of Ashley R. Bjorklund, 
to be Lieutenant Commander. 

Navy nomination of Adeleke O. Mowobi, to 
be Lieutenant Commander. 

Navy nominations beginning with Mary K. 
Arbuthnot and ending with John K. Werner, 
Jr., which nominations were received by the 
Senate and appeared in the Congressional 
Record on November 15, 2016. 

Navy nomination of Stephen W. Hedrick, 
to be Lieutenant Commander. 

Navy nomination of Vincent M. J. 
Ambrosino, to be Lieutenant Commander. 

Navy nomination of Neal P. Ridge, to be 
Captain. 

Navy nomination of Abdeslam Bousalham, 
to be Lieutenant Commander. 

Navy nomination of Scott M. Morey, to be 
Lieutenant Commander. 

Navy nomination of Christian R. Foschi, to 
be Lieutenant Commander. 

By Mr. HATCH for the Committee on Finance. 


*Charles P. Blahous, III, of Maryland, to be 
a Member of the Board of Trustees of the 
Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund for a term of four years. 

*Charles P. Blahous, III, of Maryland, to be 
a Member of the Board of Trustees of the 
Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance 
Trust Fund for a term of four years. 

*Charles P. Blahous, III, of Maryland, to be 
a Member of the Board of Trustees of the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a 
term of four years. 

*Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be 
a Member of the Board of Trustees of the 
Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund for a term of four years. 

*Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be 
a Member of the Board of Trustees of the 
Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance 
Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance 
Trust Fund for a term of four years. 

*Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, to be 
a Member of the Board of Trustees of the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a 
term of four years. 

*Nomination was reported with recommendation 
that it be confirmed subject 
to the nominee’s commitment to 
respond to requests to appear and testify 
before any duly constituted committee 
of the Senate. 

(Nominations without an asterisk 
were reported with the recommendation 
that they be confirmed.) 

f 

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

The following bills and joint resolutions 
were introduced, read the first 
and second times by unanimous consent, 
and referred as indicated: 

By Mr. VITTER (for himself and Ms. 
KLOBUCHAR): 

S. 7. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to make permanent the removal 
of the rental cap for durable medical 
equipment under the Medicare program with 
respect to speech generating devices; to the 
Committee on Finance. 
By Mr. CORKER (for himself and Mr. 
CARDIN): 

S. 8. A bill to provide for the approval of 
the Agreement for Cooperation Between the 
Government of the United States of America 
and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway 
Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy; 
to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 
By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr. 
GRASSLEY): 

S. 9. A bill to provide for the regulation of 
over-the-counter hearing aids; to the Committee 
on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions. 
By Mr. SCOTT (for himself, Mr. CASEY, 
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. GRAHAM, and Mr. 
BENNET): 

S. 10. A bill to provide for the consideration 
of a definition of anti-Semitism for the 
enforcement of Federal antidiscrimination 
laws concerning education programs or activities; 
considered and passed. 
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mrs. 
GILLIBRAND): 

S. 3489. A bill to prohibit a court from 
awarding damages based on race, ethnicity, 
gender, religion, or actual or perceived sexual 
orientation, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on the Judiciary. 
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr. 
PERDUE, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND): 

S. 3490. A bill to direct the Secretary of 
Homeland Security to provide for an option 
under the Secure Mail Initiative under which 
a person to whom a document is sent under 
that initiative may require that the United 
States Postal Service obtain a signature 

December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE 


(Rectangle comment March 17, 2017 Congressional Record
3/21/2017 1:21:26 AM
On page S6665, December 1, 2016, in the first column, the following appears: S. 3493. A bill to revise the boundaries of certain John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System units in New Jersey; to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. 
The online Record has been corrected to read: S. 3493. A bill to revise the boundaries of certain John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System units in New Jersey; to the Committee on Environment and Public Works.)
(Text Box comment CORRECTION)
S6665 

from that person in order to deliver the document, 
and for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs. 

By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. 

LEAHY, Mr. FRANKEN, Mr. DURBIN, 

Mr. TESTER, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. 

MERKLEY, Ms. WARREN, Ms. HIRONO, 

Mr. CASEY, Mr. WARNER, Mr. MENEN


DEZ, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HEITKAMP, 

and Mr. REED): 

S. 3491. A bill to amend the Truth in Lending 
Act and the Electronic Fund Transfer 
Act to provide justice to victims of fraud; to 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs. 
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms. 
STABENOW): 

S. 3492. A bill to designate the Traverse 
City VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs in 
Traverse City, Michigan, as the ‘‘Colonel 
Demas T. Craw VA Clinic’’ ; considered and 
passed. 
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr. 
MENENDEZ): 

S. 3493. A bill to revise the boundaries of 
certain John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources 
System units in New Jersey; to the 
Committee on Environment and Public 
Works. 
f 

SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND 
SENATE RESOLUTIONS 

The following concurrent resolutions 
and Senate resolutions were read, and 
referred (or acted upon), as indicated: 

By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Ms. 
BALDWIN): 

S. Res. 627. A resolution designating December 
3, 2016, as ‘‘National Phenylketonuria 
Awareness Day’’ ; considered and 
agreed to. 
By Mr. BLUNT: 

S. Res. 628. A resolution authorizing the 
printing of a revised edition of the Senate 
Rules and Manual; considered and agreed to. 
f 

ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 

S. 290 
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the 
name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 290, a bill to amend title 38, 
United States Code, to improve the accountability 
of employees of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs, and for 
other purposes. 
S. 497 
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 497, a bill to allow Americans to 
earn paid sick time so that they can 
address their own health needs and the 
health needs of their families. 
S. 1490 
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the 
name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1490, a bill to establish an advisory 
office within the Bureau of Consumer 
Protection of the Federal Trade 
Commission to prevent fraud targeting 
seniors, and for other purposes. 
S. 1794 
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the 
name of the Senator from New Jersey 
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon


sor of S. 1794, a bill to prohibit drilling 
in the Arctic Ocean. 

S. 2208 

At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2208, a bill to promote the economic 
security and safety of survivors 
of domestic violence, dating violence, 
sexual assault, or stalking, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 2577 

At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
name of the Senator from Washington 
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2577, a bill to protect crime 
victims’ rights, to eliminate the substantial 
backlog of DNA and other forensic 
evidence samples to improve and 
expand the forensic science testing capacity 
of Federal, State, and local 
crime laboratories, to increase research 
and development of new testing 
technologies, to develop new training 
programs regarding the collection and 
use of forensic evidence, to provide 
post-conviction testing of DNA evidence 
to exonerate the innocent, to 
support accreditation efforts of forensic 
science laboratories and medical examiner 
offices, to address training and 
equipment needs, to improve the performance 
of counsel in State capital 
cases, and for other purposes. 

S. 2645 

At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2645, a bill to impose sanctions 
with respect to foreign persons responsible 
for gross violations of internationally 
recognized human rights 
against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and 
transgender individuals, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 2671 

At the request of Mr. NELSON, the 
name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2671, a bill to amend title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act to establish 
rules for payment for graduate medical 
education (GME) costs for hospitals 
that establish a new medical residency 
training program after hosting resident 
rotators for short durations. 

S. 2868 

At the request of Mr. SCOTT, the 
name of the Senator from New York 
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2868, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide 
for the deferral of inclusion in 
gross income for capital gains rein


vested in economically distressed 
zones. 
S. 2878 

At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the 
name of the Senator from Nebraska 
(Mr. SASSE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2878, a bill to amend the International 
Religious Freedom Act of 1998 
to improve the ability of the United 
States to advance religious freedom 
globally through enhanced diplomacy, 
training, counterterrorism, and foreign 
assistance efforts, and through strong


er and more flexible political responses 
to religious freedom violations and violent 
extremism worldwide, and for 
other purposes. 

S. 2989 

At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the 
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr. 
COATS) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2989, a bill to award a Congressional 
Gold Medal, collectively, to the United 
States merchant mariners of World 
War II, in recognition of their dedicated 
and vital service during World 
War II. 

S. 3111 

At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the 
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms. 
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
3111, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to extend the 7.5 percent 
threshold for the medical expense 
deduction for individuals age 65 or 
older. 

S. 3164 

At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the 
name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 3164, a bill to provide protection 
for survivors of domestic violence 
or sexual assault under the Fair Housing 
Act. 

S. 3299 

At the request of Mr. DAINES, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
3299, a bill to direct the Secretary of 
Homeland Security to notify air carriers 
and security screening personnel 
of the Transportation Security Administration 
of the guidelines of the Administration 
regarding permitting 
baby formula, breast milk, and juice on 
aircraft, and for other purposes. 

S. 3373 

At the request of Mr. WARNER, the 
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. 
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
3373, a bill to amend the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act to ensure that the 
reciprocal deposits of an insured depository 
institution are not considered to 
be funds obtained by or through a deposit 
broker, and for other purposes. 

S. 3391 

At the request of Mr. REED, the name 
of the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr. 
WHITEHOUSE) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 3391, a bill to reauthorize the Museum 
and Library Services Act. 

S. 3447 

At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the 
names of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. ROUNDS) and the Senator 
from Maine (Mr. KING) were added as 
cosponsors of S. 3447, a bill to direct 
the Secretary of the Army to place in 
Arlington National Cemetery a memorial 
honoring the helicopter pilots and 
crew members of the Vietnam era, and 
for other purposes. 

S. 3472 

At the request of Mr. LEE, the names 
of the Senator from Kentucky (Mr. 
PAUL), the Senator from Florida (Mr. 
RUBIO) and the Senator from Texas 
(Mr. CRUZ) were added as cosponsors of 

S. 3472, a bill to require the Bureau of 

S6666 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

the Census to conduct a survey to determine 
income and poverty levels in 
the United States in a manner that accounts 
for the receipt of Federal 
means-tested benefits, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 3476 

At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the 
name of the Senator from Michigan 
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 3476, a bill to waive 
recoupment by the United States of 
certain bonuses and similar benefits erroneously 
received by members of the 
Army National Guard, and for other 
purposes. 

S. 3478 

At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the 
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr. 
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
3478, a bill to require continued and enhanced 
annual reporting to Congress in 
the Annual Report on International 
Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic incidents 
in Europe, the safety and security 
of European Jewish communities, 
and the efforts of the United States to 
partner with European governments, 
the European Union, and civil society 
groups, to combat anti-Semitism, and 
for other purposes. 

S. CON. RES. 51 
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from South Dakota 
(Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Con. Res. 51, a concurrent 
resolution expressing the sense of Congress 
that those who served in the 
bays, harbors, and territorial seas of 
the Republic of Vietnam during the period 
beginning on January 9, 1962, and 
ending on May 7, 1975, should be presumed 
to have been exposed to the 
toxin Agent Orange and should be eligible 
for all related Federal benefits that 
come with such presumption under the 
Agent Orange Act of 1991. 

S. CON. RES. 56 
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the 
name of the Senator from Minnesota 
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Con. Res. 56, a concurrent 
resolution clarifying any potential 
misunderstanding as to whether actions 
taken by President-elect Donald 
Trump constitute a violation of the 
Emoluments Clause, and calling on 
President-elect Trump to divest his interest 
in, and sever his relationship to, 
the Trump Organization. 

S. RES. 580 

At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the 
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr. 
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 
Res. 580, a resolution supporting the establishment 
of a President’s Youth 
Council. 

S. RES. 616 

At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the 
name of the Senator from Montana 
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor 
of S. Res. 616, a resolution supporting 
the goals and ideals of American Diabetes 
Month. 

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED 
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS 

By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. 
LEAHY, Mr. FRANKEN, Mr. DURBIN, 
Mr. TESTER, Mrs. MURRAY, 
Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. WARREN, Ms. 
HIRONO, Mr. CASEY, Mr. WARNER, 
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. 
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HEITKAMP, 
and Mr. REED): 

S. 3491. A bill to amend the Truth in 
Lending Act and the Electronic Fund 
Transfer Act to provide justice to victims 
of fraud; to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. 
Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, I rise to 
introduce the Fair Calculations in 
Civil Damages Act of 2016, also known 
as the Fair Calculations Act. This critical 
civil rights legislation would ensure 
that Federal judicial awards of 
civil damages do not value women and 
minorities less than other Americans. 
By combating discrimination in the 
award of civil damages, the Fair Calculations 
Act would help bring our nation 
one step closer to fulfilling the 
promise of equal justice under law. I 
thank Senator GILLIBRAND for her support, 
and I am proud she is an original 
cosponsor of this bill. I also thank Rep. 
KENNEDY, who is introducing the House 
companion to this bill, for his leadership. 


A basic tenet of the American legal 
system is our shared belief that ‘‘all 
men are created equal,’’ an idea so critical 
to who we are and what we believe 
that it is explicitly reflected in our 
Declaration of Independence. Even our 
national charter reflects the idea that 
everyone must be given equal protection 
under the laws. Out of this constitutional 
foundation lays a simple 
truth: to be equal under the law means, 
at a minimum, that neither our government 
nor the rule of the law should 
discriminate against anyone by virtue 
of his or her membership in a group. 

Sadly, our Nation fails to live up to 
those promises when courts award 
damages in civil cases. Far too often, 
Federal and State judges use race or 
gender as factors to weigh when deciding 
how much money to award a plaintiff 
in a civil case. As a result, individuals 
of a certain race or gender often 
receive larger awards than people of a 
different race or gender, even in similar 
cases. This damages awards gap derives 
from estimates of how much 
money an individual would have earned 
over their lifetimes had they not been 
injured and, far too often, that estimate 
considers earnings and job levels 
by race and gender. 

Consider the case of James McMillan, 
an African-American man who was injured 
during the 2003 Staten Island 
ferry crash. As a result of the crash, 
Mr. McMillan suffered a severe spinal 
cord injury that caused him to need 
medical care for the remainder of his 
life. He sued the City of New York. In 
response to his suit, the City of New 
York argued that he should receive less 
money for his injury because data demonstrated 
that African-American vic


tims of spinal cord injuries lived fewer 
years than white victims and, therefore, 
he would incur fewer medical 
costs. Fortunately, the judge in that 
case rejected the city’s argument. But 
no American should have to endure the 
indignity of having the value of their 
life determined by their race or gender. 

The use of race and gender to project 
future earnings in courts is a widespread 
problem. According to a 2009 
survey by the National Association of 
Forensic Economics, 44 percent of forensic 
economists reported considering 
race and 92 percent reported considering 
gender when estimating future 
earning rates for injured children. 

Even leading scholars have been critical 
of this practice. Martha 
Chamallas, a law professor at the Ohio 
State University Law School, called 
the practice reminiscent of something 
‘‘civil rights advocates [fought] in the 
1960s.’’ Jennifer Wiggins, a law professor 
at the University of Maine Law 
School, has emphasized that the practice 
‘‘reinforces past discrimination 
and pushes it out into the future and 
endorses.’’ I could not agree more. 

The Fair Calculations Act, which I 
introduce today, would bar Federal 
courts from awarding damages based 
on race, ethnicity, gender, religion, or 
actual or perceived sexual orientation. 
Justice in an American court should 
not turn on race or gender, and the 
time has come to put an end to this 
discriminatory practice in Federal 
courts. I also believe this bill would 
serve as a road map for States who I 
hope will end this discriminatory practice 
in their courts. 

The legislation would require the Department 
of Justice and the Department 
of Labor to develop guidance to 
the States on how calculations of future 
earnings for a violation of State 
tort law could violate Federal equal 
protection laws. That is yet another 
example of how this bill aims to persuade 
states to follow our lead. By 
issuing guidance to the states on this 
issue, the impact of this bill has the 
potential to be even more far-reaching. 

The bill would require the Department 
of Labor to issue guidance to forensic 
economists on how to create inclusive 
future earnings tables that do 
not rely on race, ethnicity, gender, religion, 
or actual or perceived sexual 
orientation. Forensic economists are 
often used as experts in both Federal 
and State courts to advise lawyers and 
judges on the proper amounts to award 
for damages. Instructing these experts 
on the benefits of more representative 
future earnings tables and the legal 
hurdles of using less inclusive earning 
tables is yet another way to ensure 
that future earnings in State courts do 
not harm women or minorities. 

Finally, the Fair Calculations Act 
would direct the Judicial Conference of 
the United States to conduct a study 
and report to Congress on the use of 
race, ethnicity, gender, age, disability, 
or actual or perceived sexual orientation 
in the calculation of future earnings 
in civil court cases. This provision 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6667 

provides for more transparency and 
record keeping. The first step to fixing 
a problem is understanding the extent 
of the problem you have, and this provision 
allows for Congress to track the 
extent of Federal judicial awards based 
on demographics. It also allows for 
more open government, which is important 
because transparency allows the 
American people to hold its government 
accountable. 

Our Nation was founded on the idea 
that all people are created equal. Valuing 
one person’s life more than another 
merely because of the color of 
their skin or sex belies this core value 
that makes our Nation great. The Fair 
Calculations Act would remedy this 
wrong and continue our country down 
the path towards fulfilling our Nation’s 
promise of liberty and justice for all. I 
am proud to stand here today and introduce 
this critical bill and I urge its 
speedy passage. 

f 

SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS 

SENATE RESOLUTION 627—DESIGNATING 
DECEMBER 3, 2016, AS 
‘‘NATIONAL PHENYLKETONURIA 
AWARENESS DAY’’ 

Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Ms. 
BALDWIN) submitted the following resolution; 
which was considered and 
agreed to: 

S. RES. 627 
Whereas phenylketonuria (in this preamble 
referred to as ‘‘PKU’’) is a rare, inherited 
metabolic disorder that is characterized by 
the inability of the body to process the essential 
amino acid phenylalanine and which 
causes intellectual disability and other neurological 
problems, such as memory loss and 
mood disorders, when treatment is not started 
within the first few weeks of life; 
Whereas PKU is also referred to as 
Phenylalanine Hydroxylase Deficiency; 
Whereas newborn screening for PKU was 
initiated in the United States in 1963 and was 
recommended for inclusion in State newborn 
screening programs under the Newborn 
Screening Saves Lives Act of 2007 (Public 
Law 110–204); 
Whereas approximately 1 out of every 
15,000 infants in the United States is born 
with PKU; 
Whereas PKU is treated with medical food; 
Whereas the 2012 Phenylketonuria Scientific 
Review Conference affirmed the recommendation 
of lifelong dietary treatment 
for PKU made by the National Institutes of 
Health Consensus Development Conference 
Statement 2000; 
Whereas, in 2014, the American College of 
Medical Genetics and Genomics and Genetic 
Metabolic Dieticians International published 
medical and dietary guidelines on the optimal 
treatment of PKU; 
Whereas medical foods are medically necessary 
for children and adults living with 
PKU; 
Whereas adults with PKU who discontinue 
treatment are at risk for serious medical 
issues, such as depression, impulse control 
disorder, phobias, tremors, and pareses; 
Whereas women with PKU must maintain 
strict metabolic control before and during 
pregnancy to prevent fetal damage; 
Whereas children born from untreated 
mothers with PKU may have a condition 

known as ‘‘maternal phenylketonuria syndrome’’, 
which can cause small brains, intellectual 
disabilities, birth defects of the 
heart, and low birth weights; 

Whereas, although there is no cure for 
PKU, treatment involving medical foods, 
medications, and restriction of 
phenylalanine intake can prevent progressive, 
irreversible brain damage; 

Whereas access to health insurance coverage 
for medical food varies across the 
United States and the long-term costs associated 
with caring for untreated children and 
adults with PKU far exceed the cost of providing 
medical food treatment; 

Whereas gaps in medical foods coverage 
has a detrimental impact on individuals with 
PKU, their families, and society; 

Whereas scientists and researchers are 
hopeful that breakthroughs in PKU research 
will be forthcoming; 

Whereas researchers across the United 
States are conducting important research 
projects involving PKU; and 

Whereas the Senate is an institution that 
can raise awareness of PKU among the general 
public and the medical community: 
Now, therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Senate— 

(1) designates December 3, 2016, as ‘‘National 
Phenylketonuria Awareness Day’’; 
(2) encourages all people in the United 
States to become more informed about 
phenylketonuria and the role of medical 
foods in treating phenylketonuria; and 
(3) respectfully requests that the Secretary 
of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of 
this resolution to the National PKU Alliance, 
a nonprofit organization dedicated to 
improving the lives of individuals with 
phenylketonuria. 
f 

SENATE RESOLUTION 628—AUTHORIZING 
THE PRINTING OF A 
REVISED EDITION OF THE SENATE 
RULES AND MANUAL 

Mr. BLUNT submitted the following 
resolution; which was considered and 
agreed to: 

S. RES. 628 

Resolved, That— 

(1) the Committee on Rules and Administration 
shall prepare a revised edition of the 
Senate Rules and Manual for the use of the 
114th Congress; 
(2) the manual shall be printed as a Senate 
document; and 
(3) in addition to the usual number of copies, 
1,500 copies of the manual shall be bound, 
of which— 
(A) 500 paperbound copies shall be for the 
use of the Senate; and 
(B) 1,000 copies shall be bound (550 
paperbound, 250 nontabbed black skiver, 200 
tabbed black skiver) and delivered as may be 
directed by the Committee on Rules and Administration. 
f 

AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND 
PROPOSED 

SA 5117. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an 
amendment to the bill H.R. 34, to authorize 
and strengthen the tsunami detection, forecast, 
warning, research, and mitigation program 
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, and for other purposes. 


SA 5118. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an 
amendment to amendment SA 5117 proposed 
by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill H.R. 34, supra. 

SA 5119. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an 
amendment to the bill H.R. 34 , supra. 

SA 5120. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an 
amendment to amendment SA 5119 proposed 
by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill H.R. 34, supra. 

SA 5121. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed an 
amendment to amendment SA 5120 proposed 
by Mr. MCCONNELL to the amendment SA 
5119 proposed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill 
H.R. 34, supra. 

SA 5122. Mr. JOHNSON submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by him 
to the bill H.R. 34, supra; which was ordered 
to lie on the table. 

SA 5123. Mr. SULLIVAN (for Mr. BURR (for 
himself and Ms. CANTWELL)) proposed an 
amendment to the bill S. 2058, to require the 
Secretary of Commerce to study the coverage 
gaps of the Next Generation Weather 
Radar of the National Weather Service and 
to develop a plan for improving radar coverage 
and hazardous weather detection and 
forecasting. 

SA 5124. Mr. SULLIVAN (for Mr. BURR) 
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 2058, 
supra. 

SA 5125. Mr. SULLIVAN (for Mr. THUNE 
(for himself and Mr. NELSON)) proposed an 
amendment to the bill H.R. 1561, to improve 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s 
weather research through a 
focused program of investment on affordable 
and attainable advances in observational, 
computing, and modeling capabilities to support 
substantial improvement in weather 
forecasting and prediction of high impact 
weather events, to expand commercial opportunities 
for the provision of weather data, 
and for other purposes. 

SA 5126. Mr. SULLIVAN (for Ms. CANTWELL) 
proposed an amendment to amendment 
SA 5125 proposed by Mr. SULLIVAN (for 
Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr. NELSON)) to 
the bill H.R. 1561, supra. 

f 

TEXT OF AMENDMENTS 
SA 5117. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed 
an amendment to the bill H.R. 34, to 
authorize and strengthen the tsunami 
detection, forecast, warning, research, 
and mitigation program of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
and for other purposes; 
as follows: 
At the end add the following: 
‘‘This Act shall take effect 1 day after the 
date of enactment.’’ 

SA 5118. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed 
an amendment to amendment SA 5117 
proposed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill 

H.R. 34, to authorize and strengthen 
the tsunami detection, forecast, warning, 
research, and mitigation program 
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, and for other 
purposes; as follows: 
Strike ‘‘1 day’’ and insert ‘‘2 days’’. 

SA 5119. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed 
an amendment to the bill H.R. 34, to 
authorize and strengthen the tsunami 
detection, forecast, warning, research, 
and mitigation program of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
and for other purposes; 
as follows: 

At the end add the following: 

‘‘This Act shall take effect 3 days after the 
date of enactment.’’ 

SA 5120. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed 
an amendment to amendment SA 5119 
proposed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the bill 

H.R. 34, to authorize and strengthen 
the tsunami detection, forecast, warning, 
research, and mitigation program 

S6668 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, and for other 
purposes; as follows: 

Strike ‘‘3 days’’ and insert ‘‘4 days’’. 

SA 5121. Mr. MCCONNELL proposed 
an amendment to amendment SA 5120 
proposed by Mr. MCCONNELL to the 
amendment SA 5119 proposed by Mr. 
MCCONNELL to the bill H.R. 34, to authorize 
and strengthen the tsunami detection, 
forecast, warning, research, 
and mitigation program of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
and for other purposes; 
as follows: 

Strike ‘‘4’’ and insert ‘‘5’’. 

SA 5122. Mr. JOHNSON submitted an 
amendment intended to be proposed by 
him to the bill H.R. 34, to authorize 
and strengthen the tsunami detection, 
forecast, warning, research, and mitigation 
program of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, 
and for other purposes; which was ordered 
to lie on the table; as follows: 

At the appropriate place in division A, insert 
the following: 

SEC. ll. USE OF UNAPPROVED MEDICAL PROD


UCTS BY PATIENTS DIAGNOSED 

WITH A TERMINAL ILLNESS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be 
cited as the ‘‘Trickett Wendler Right to Try 
Act of 2016’’. 
(b) USE OF UNAPPROVED MEDICAL PRODUCTS 
BY PATIENTS DIAGNOSED WITH A TERMINAL 
ILLNESS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
301 et seq.), the Controlled Substances Act 
(21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), and any other provision 
of Federal law, the Federal Government 
shall not take any action to prohibit or restrict— 
(A) the production, manufacture, distribution, 
prescribing, or dispensing of an experimental 
drug, biological product, or device 
that— 
(i) is intended to treat a patient who has 
been diagnosed with a terminal illness; and 
(ii) is authorized by, and in accordance 
with, State law; and 
(B) the possession or use of an experimental 
drug, biological product, or device— 
(i) that is described in clauses (i) and (ii) of 
subparagraph (A); and 
(ii) for which the patient has received a 
certification from a physician, who is in 
good standing with the physician’s certifying 
organization or board, that the patient has 
exhausted, or otherwise does not meet qualifying 
criteria to receive, any other available 
treatment options. 
(2) NO LIABILITY OR USE OF OUTCOMES.— 
(A) NO LIABILITY.—Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, no liability shall lie 
against a producer, manufacturer, distributor, 
prescriber, dispenser, possessor, or 
user of an experimental drug, biological 
product, or device for the production, manufacture, 
distribution, prescribing, dispensing, 
possession, or use of an experimental drug, 
biological product, or device that is in compliance 
with paragraph (1). 
(B) NO USE OF OUTCOMES.—Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the outcome of 
any production, manufacture, distribution, 
prescribing, dispensing, possession, or use of 
an experimental drug, biological product, or 
device that was done in compliance with 
paragraph (1) shall not be used by a Federal 
agency reviewing the experimental drug, biological 
product, or device to delay or otherwise 
adversely impact review or approval of 
such experimental drug, biological product, 
or device. 

(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 
(A) BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT.—The term ‘‘biological 
product’’ has the meaning given to 
such term in section 351 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262). 
(B) DEVICE; DRUG.—The terms ‘‘device’’ and 
‘‘drug’’ have the meanings given to such 
terms in section 201 of the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321). 
(C) EXPERIMENTAL DRUG, BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT, 
OR DEVICE.—The term ‘‘experimental 
drug, biological product, or device’’ means a 
drug, biological product, or device that— 
(i) has successfully completed a phase 1 
clinical investigation; 
(ii) remains under investigation in a clinical 
trial approved by the Food and Drug Administration; 
and 
(iii) is not approved, licensed, or cleared 
for commercial distribution under section 
505, 510(k), or 515 of the Federal Food, Drug, 
or Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355, 360(k), 360(e)) 
or section 351 of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 262). 
(D) PHASE 1 CLINICAL INVESTIGATION.—The 
term ‘‘phase 1 clinical investigation’’ means 
a phase 1 clinical investigation, as described 
in section 312.21 of title 21, Code of Federal 
Regulations (or any successor regulations). 
(E) TERMINAL ILLNESS.—The term ‘‘terminal 
illness’’ has the meaning given to such 
term in the State law specified in paragraph 
(1)(A)(ii). 
SA 5123. Mr. SULLIVAN (for Mr. 
BURR (for himself and Ms. CANTWELL)) 
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 
2058, to require the Secretary of Commerce 
to study the coverage gaps of 
the Next Generation Weather Radar of 
the National Weather Service and to 
develop a plan for improving radar coverage 
and hazardous weather detection 
and forecasting; as follows: 

Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 

SEC. ll. STUDY ON GAPS IN NEXRAD COVERAGE 

AND REQUIREMENT FOR PLAN TO 

ADDRESS SUCH GAPS. 

(a) STUDY ON GAPS IN NEXRAD COVERAGE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Commerce shall complete a 
study on gaps in the coverage of the Next 
Generation Weather Radar of the National 
Weather Service (referred to in this section 
as ‘‘NEXRAD’’). 
(2) ELEMENTS.—In conducting the study required 
under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
shall— 
(A) identify areas in the United States 
with limited or no NEXRAD coverage below 
6,000 feet above ground level of the surrounding 
terrain; 
(B) for the areas identified under subparagraph 
(A)— 
(i) identify the key weather effects for 
which prediction would improve with improved 
radar detection; 
(ii) identify additional sources of observations 
for high impact weather that were 
available and operational for such areas on 
the day before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, including Terminal Doppler Weather 
Radar (commonly known as ‘‘TDWR’’), air 
surveillance radars of the Federal Aviation 
Administration, and cooperative network observers; 
and 
(iii) assess the feasibility and advisability 
of efforts to integrate and upgrade Federal 
radar capabilities that are not owned or controlled 
by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, including radar capabilities 
of the Federal Aviation Administration 
and the Department of Defense; 

(C) assess the feasibility and advisability 
of incorporating State-operated and other 
non-Federal radars into the operations of the 
National Weather Service; 
(D) identify options to improve radar coverage 
in the areas identified under subparagraph 
(A); and 
(E) estimate the cost of, and develop a 
timeline for, carrying out each of the options 
identified under subparagraph (D). 
(3) REPORT.—Upon the completion of the 
study required under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
shall submit a report to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations 
of the Senate, the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology of the 
House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives that includes the findings of 
the Secretary with respect to the study. 
(b) PLAN TO IMPROVE RADAR COVERAGE.— 
Not later than 30 days after the completion 
of the study under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary 
of Commerce shall submit a plan to 
the congressional committees referred to in 
subsection (a)(3) for improving radar coverage 
in the areas identified under subsection 
(a)(2)(A) by integrating and upgrading, 
to the extent practicable, additional observation 
solutions to improve hazardous 
weather detection and forecasting. 
(c) REQUIREMENT FOR THIRD-PARTY REVIEWS 
REGARDING PLAN TO IMPROVE RADAR COVERAGE.—
The Secretary of Commerce shall 
seek third-party reviews on scientific methodology 
relating to, and the feasibility and 
advisability of, implementing the plan submitted 
under subsection (b), including the 
extent to which warning and forecast services 
of the National Weather Service would 
be improved by additional NEXRAD coverage. 
SA 5124. Mr. SULLIVAN (for Mr. 
BURR) proposed an amendment to the 
bill S. 2058, to require the Secretary of 
Commerce to study the coverage gaps 
of the Next Generation Weather Radar 
of the National Weather Service and to 
develop a plan for improving radar coverage 
and hazardous weather detection 
and forecasting; as follows: 

Amend the title so as to read: ‘‘A bill to require 
the Secretary of Commerce to study 
the coverage gaps of the Next Generation 
Weather Radar of the National Weather 
Service and to develop a plan for improving 
radar coverage and hazardous weather detection 
and forecasting.’’. 

SA 5125. Mr. SULLIVAN (for Mr. 
THUNE (for himself and Mr. NELSON)) 
proposed an amendment to the bill 

H.R. 1561, to improve the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration’s 
weather research through a focused 
program of investment on affordable 
and attainable advances in observational, 
computing, and modeling capabilities 
to support substantial improvement 
in weather forecasting and prediction 
of high impact weather events, 
to expand commercial opportunities 
for the provision of weather data, and 
for other purposes; as follows: 
Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as 
the ‘‘Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation 
Act of 2016’’. 

December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6669 

(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents 
for this Act is as follows: 

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. 

Sec. 2. Definitions. 

TITLE I—UNITED STATES WEATHER RESEARCH 
AND FORECASTING IMPROVEMENT 


Sec. 101. Public safety priority. 

Sec. 102. Weather research and forecasting 
innovation. 

Sec. 103. Tornado warning improvement and 
extension program. 

Sec. 104. Hurricane forecast improvement 
program. 

Sec. 105. Weather research and development 
planning. 

Sec. 106. Observing system planning. 

Sec. 107. Observing system simulation ex


periments. 
Sec. 108. Annual report on computing resources 
prioritization. 
Sec. 109. United States Weather Research 
program. 
Sec. 110. Authorization of appropriations. 
TITLE II—SUBSEASONAL AND SEASONAL 
FORECASTING INNOVATION 
Sec. 201. Improving subseasonal and seasonal 
forecasts. 
TITLE III—WEATHER SATELLITE AND 
DATA INNOVATION 

Sec. 301. National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration satellite and 
data management. 

Sec. 302. Commercial weather data. 
Sec. 303. Unnecessary duplication. 
TITLE IV—FEDERAL WEATHER 
COORDINATION 
Sec. 401. Environmental Information Services 
Working Group. 

Sec. 402. Interagency weather research and 
forecast innovation coordination. 


Sec. 403. Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research and National Weather 
Service exchange program. 

Sec. 404. Visiting fellows at National Weather 
Service. 

Sec. 405. Warning coordination meteorologists 
at weather forecast offices 
of National Weather Service. 

Sec. 406. Improving National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration 
communication of hazardous 
weather and water events. 

Sec. 407. National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration Weather Ready 
All Hazards Award Program. 

Sec. 408. Department of Defense weather 
forecasting activities. 

Sec. 409. National Weather Service; operations 
and workforce analysis. 

Sec. 410. Water resources. 

Sec. 411. Report on contract positions at Na


tional Weather Service. 
Sec. 412. Weather impacts to communities 
and infrastructure. 
Sec. 413. Weather enterprise outreach. 

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS. 

In this Act: 

(1) SEASONAL.—The term ‘‘seasonal’’ means 
the time range between 3 months and 2 
years. 
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means a 
State, a territory, or possession of the 
United States, including a Commonwealth, 
or the District of Columbia. 
(3) SUBSEASONAL.—The term ‘‘subseasonal’’ 
means the time range between 2 weeks and 3 
months. 
(4) UNDER SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Under 
Secretary’’ means the Under Secretary of 
Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere. 
(5) WEATHER INDUSTRY AND WEATHER ENTERPRISE.—
The terms ‘‘weather industry’’ and 
‘‘weather enterprise’’ are interchangeable in 
this Act, and include individuals and organizations 
from public, private, and academic 
sectors that contribute to the research, development, 
and production of weather forecast 
products, and primary consumers of 
these weather forecast products. 

TITLE I—UNITED STATES WEATHER RE


SEARCH AND FORECASTING IMPROVE


MENT 

SEC. 101. PUBLIC SAFETY PRIORITY. 

In conducting research, the Under Secretary 
shall prioritize improving weather 
data, modeling, computing, forecasting, and 
warnings for the protection of life and property 
and for the enhancement of the national 
economy. 

SEC. 102. WEATHER RESEARCH AND FORECASTING 
INNOVATION. 

(a) PROGRAM.—The Assistant Administrator 
for the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research shall conduct a program to 
develop improved understanding of and forecast 
capabilities for atmospheric events and 
their impacts, placing priority on developing 
more accurate, timely, and effective warnings 
and forecasts of high impact weather 
events that endanger life and property. 
(b) PROGRAM ELEMENTS.—The program described 
in subsection (a) shall focus on the 
following activities: 
(1) Improving the fundamental understanding 
of weather consistent with section 
101, including the boundary layer and other 
processes affecting high impact weather 
events. 
(2) Improving the understanding of how the 
public receives, interprets, and responds to 
warnings and forecasts of high impact 
weather events that endanger life and property. 
(3) Research and development, and transfer 
of knowledge, technologies, and applications 
to the National Weather Service and other 
appropriate agencies and entities, including 
the United States weather industry and academic 
partners, related to— 
(A) advanced radar, radar networking technologies, 
and other ground-based technologies, 
including those emphasizing rapid, 
fine-scale sensing of the boundary layer and 
lower troposphere, and the use of innovative, 
dual-polarization, phased-array technologies; 
(B) aerial weather observing systems; 
(C) high performance computing and information 
technology and wireless communication 
networks; 
(D) advanced numerical weather prediction 
systems and forecasting tools and techniques 
that improve the forecasting of timing, 
track, intensity, and severity of high impact 
weather, including through— 
(i) the development of more effective 
mesoscale models; 
(ii) more effective use of existing, and the 
development of new, regional and national 
cloud-resolving models; 
(iii) enhanced global weather models; and 
(iv) integrated assessment models; 
(E) quantitative assessment tools for measuring 
the impact and value of data and observing 
systems, including Observing System 
Simulation Experiments (as described in section 
107), Observing System Experiments, 
and Analyses of Alternatives; 
(F) atmospheric chemistry and interactions 
essential to accurately characterizing 
atmospheric composition and predicting 
meteorological processes, including 
cloud microphysical, precipitation, and atmospheric 
electrification processes, to more 
effectively understand their role in severe 
weather; and 
(G) additional sources of weather data and 
information, including commercial observing 
systems. 
(4) A technology transfer initiative, carried 
out jointly and in coordination with the Director 
of the National Weather Service, and 
in cooperation with the United States weather 
industry and academic partners, to ensure 
continuous development and transition of 
the latest scientific and technological advances 
into operations of the National 
Weather Service and to establish a process to 
sunset outdated and expensive operational 
methods and tools to enable cost-effective 
transfer of new methods and tools into operations. 


(c) EXTRAMURAL RESEARCH.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the program 
under this section, the Assistant Administrator 
for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research 
shall collaborate with and support the 
non-Federal weather research community, 
which includes institutions of higher education, 
private entities, and nongovernmental 
organizations, by making funds 
available through competitive grants, contracts, 
and cooperative agreements. 
(2) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of 
Congress that not less than 30 percent of the 
funds for weather research and development 
at the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research 
should be made available for the purpose 
described in paragraph (1). 
(d) ANNUAL REPORT.—Each year, concurrent 
with the annual budget request submitted 
by the President to Congress under 
section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, 
for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, the Under Secretary shall 
submit to Congress a description of current 
and planned activities under this section. 
SEC. 103. TORNADO WARNING IMPROVEMENT 
AND EXTENSION PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary, in 
collaboration with the United States weather 
industry and academic partners, shall establish 
a tornado warning improvement and 
extension program. 
(b) GOAL.—The goal of such program shall 
be to reduce the loss of life and economic 
losses from tornadoes through the development 
and extension of accurate, effective, 
and timely tornado forecasts, predictions, 
and warnings, including the prediction of 
tornadoes beyond one hour in advance. 
(c) PROGRAM PLAN.—Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Research, in coordination 
with the Director of the National Weather 
Service, shall develop a program plan that 
details the specific research, development, 
and technology transfer activities, as well as 
corresponding resources and timelines, necessary 
to achieve the program goal. 
(d) ANNUAL BUDGET FOR PLAN SUBMITTAL.— 
Following completion of the plan, the Under 
Secretary, acting through the Assistant Administrator 
for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research 
and in coordination with the Director 
of the National Weather Service, shall, not 
less frequently than once each year, submit 
to Congress a proposed budget corresponding 
with the activities identified in the plan. 
SEC. 104. HURRICANE FORECAST IMPROVEMENT 
PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary, in 
collaboration with the United States weather 
industry and such academic entities as 
the Administrator considers appropriate, 
shall maintain a project to improve hurricane 
forecasting. 
(b) GOAL.—The goal of the project maintained 
under subsection (a) shall be to develop 
and extend accurate hurricane forecasts 
and warnings in order to reduce loss of 
life, injury, and damage to the economy, 
with a focus on— 
(1) improving the prediction of rapid intensification 
and track of hurricanes; 
(2) improving the forecast and communication 
of storm surges from hurricanes; and 

S6670 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

(3) incorporating risk communication research 
to create more effective watch and 
warning products. 
(c) PROJECT PLAN.—Not later than 1 year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Under Secretary, acting through the Assistant 
Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research and in consultation with 
the Director of the National Weather Service, 
shall develop a plan for the project 
maintained under subsection (a) that details 
the specific research, development, and technology 
transfer activities, as well as corresponding 
resources and timelines, necessary 
to achieve the goal set forth in subsection 
(b). 
SEC. 105. WEATHER RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
PLANNING. 

Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not less frequently 
than once each year thereafter, the 
Under Secretary, acting through the Assistant 
Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research and in coordination with the 
Director of the National Weather Service 
and the Assistant Administrator for Satellite 
and Information Services, shall issue a 
research and development and research to 
operations plan to restore and maintain 
United States leadership in numerical 
weather prediction and forecasting that— 

(1) describes the forecasting skill and technology 
goals, objectives, and progress of the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
in carrying out the program conducted 
under section 102; 
(2) identifies and prioritizes specific research 
and development activities, and performance 
metrics, weighted to meet the 
operational weather mission of the National 
Weather Service to achieve a weather-ready 
Nation; 
(3) describes how the program will collaborate 
with stakeholders, including the United 
States weather industry and academic partners; 
and 
(4) identifies, through consultation with 
the National Science Foundation, the United 
States weather industry, and academic partners, 
research necessary to enhance the integration 
of social science knowledge into 
weather forecast and warning processes, including 
to improve the communication of 
threat information necessary to enable improved 
severe weather planning and decision-
making on the part of individuals and communities. 
SEC. 106. OBSERVING SYSTEM PLANNING. 

The Under Secretary shall— 

(1) develop and maintain a prioritized list 
of observation data requirements necessary 
to ensure weather forecasting capabilities to 
protect life and property to the maximum 
extent practicable; 
(2) consistent with section 107, utilize Observing 
System Simulation Experiments, Observing 
System Experiments, Analyses of Alternatives, 
and other appropriate assessment 
tools to ensure continuous systemic evaluations 
of the observing systems, data, and information 
needed to meet the requirements 
of paragraph (1), including options to maximize 
observational capabilities and their 
cost-effectiveness; 
(3) identify current and potential future 
data gaps in observing capabilities related to 
the requirements listed under paragraph (1); 
and 
(4) determine a range of options to address 
gaps identified under paragraph (3). 
SEC. 107. OBSERVING SYSTEM SIMULATION EXPERIMENTS. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—In support of the requirements 
of section 106, the Assistant Administrator 
for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research 
shall undertake Observing System Simulation 
Experiments, or such other quantitative 
assessments as the Assistant Administrator 
considers appropriate, to quantitatively assess 
the relative value and benefits of observing 
capabilities and systems. Technical and 
scientific Observing System Simulation Experiment 
evaluations— 

(1) may include assessments of the impact 
of observing capabilities on— 
(A) global weather prediction; 
(B) hurricane track and intensity forecasting; 
(C) tornado warning lead times and accuracy; 
(D) prediction of mid-latitude severe local 
storm outbreaks; and 
(E) prediction of storms that have the potential 
to cause extreme precipitation and 
flooding lasting from 6 hours to 1 week; and 
(2) shall be conducted in cooperation with 
other appropriate entities within the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
other Federal agencies, the United 
States weather industry, and academic partners 
to ensure the technical and scientific 
merit of results from Observing System Simulation 
Experiments or other appropriate 
quantitative assessment methodologies. 
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—Observing System 
Simulation Experiments shall quantitatively— 
(1) determine the potential impact of proposed 
space-based, suborbital, and in situ observing 
systems on analyses and forecasts, 
including potential impacts on extreme 
weather events across all parts of the Nation; 
(2) evaluate and compare observing system 
design options; and 
(3) assess the relative capabilities and 
costs of various observing systems and combinations 
of observing systems in providing 
data necessary to protect life and property. 
(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—Observing System 
Simulation Experiments— 
(1) shall be conducted prior to the acquisition 
of major Government-owned or Government-
leased operational observing systems, 
including polar-orbiting and geostationary 
satellite systems, with a lifecycle cost of 
more than $500,000,000; and 
(2) shall be conducted prior to the purchase 
of any major new commercially provided 
data with a lifecycle cost of more than 
$500,000,000. 
(d) PRIORITY OBSERVING SYSTEM SIMULATION 
EXPERIMENTS.— 
(1) GLOBAL NAVIGATION SATELLITE SYSTEM 
RADIO OCCULTATION.—Not later than 30 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Research shall complete an Observing 
System Simulation Experiment to 
assess the value of data from Global Navigation 
Satellite System Radio Occultation. 
(2) GEOSTATIONARY HYPERSPECTRAL SOUNDER 
GLOBAL CONSTELLATION.—Not later than 
120 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Assistant Administrator for 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Research shall 
complete an Observing System Simulation 
Experiment to assess the value of data from 
a geostationary hyperspectral sounder global 
constellation. 
(e) RESULTS.—Upon completion of all Observing 
System Simulation Experiments, the 
Assistant Administrator shall make available 
to the public the results an assessment 
of related private and public sector weather 
data sourcing options, including their availability, 
affordability, and cost-effectiveness. 
Such assessments shall be developed in accordance 
with section 50503 of title 51, United 
States Code. 
SEC. 108. ANNUAL REPORT ON COMPUTING RESOURCES 
PRIORITIZATION. 

Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and not less frequently 
than once each year thereafter, the 

Under Secretary, acting through the Chief 
Information Officer of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration and in coordination 
with the Assistant Administrator 
for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research and 
the Director of the National Weather Service, 
shall produce and make publicly available 
a report that explains how the Under 
Secretary intends— 

(1) to continually support upgrades to pursue 
the fastest, most powerful, and cost-effective 
high performance computing technologies 
in support of its weather prediction 
mission; 
(2) to ensure a balance between the research 
to operations requirements to develop 
the next generation of regional and global 
models as well as highly reliable operational 
models; 
(3) to take advantage of advanced development 
concepts to, as appropriate, make next 
generation weather prediction models available 
in beta-test mode to operational forecasters, 
the United States weather industry, 
and partners in academic and Government 
research; and 
(4) to use existing computing resources to 
improve advanced research and operational 
weather prediction. 
SEC. 109. UNITED STATES WEATHER RESEARCH 
PROGRAM. 

Section 108 of the Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration Authorization Act of 
1992 (Public Law 102–567; 15 U.S.C. 313 note) is 
amended— 

(1) in subsection (a)— 
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘; and’’ 
and inserting a semicolon; 
(B) in paragraph (4), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting a semicolon; and 
(C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following: 
‘‘(5) submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate and the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, 
not less frequently than once 
each year, a report, including— 

‘‘(A) a list of ongoing research projects; 

‘‘(B) project goals and a point of contact 
for each project; 

‘‘(C) the 5 projects related to weather observations, 
short-term weather, or subseasonal 
forecasts within Office of Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Research that are closest to 
operationalization, 

‘‘(D) for each project referred to in subparagraph 
(C)— 

‘‘(i) the potential benefit; 

‘‘(ii) any barrier to operationalization; and 

‘‘(iii) the plan for operationalization, including 
which line office will financially support 
the project and how much the line office 
intends to spend; 

‘‘(6) establish teams with staff from the Office 
of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research 
and the National Weather Service to oversee 
the operationalization of research products 
developed by the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research; 

‘‘(7) develop mechanisms for research priorities 
of the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research to be informed by the relevant 
line offices within the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, the 
relevant user community, and the weather 
enterprise; 

‘‘(8) develop an internal mechanism to 
track the progress of each research project 
within the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research and mechanisms to terminate 
a project that is not adequately progressing; 


‘‘(9) develop and implement a system to 
track whether extramural research grant 
goals were accomplished; 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6671 

‘‘(10) provide facilities for products developed 
by the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research to be tested in operational 
simulations, such as test beds; and 

‘‘(11) encourage academic collaboration 
with the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research and the National Weather Service 
by facilitating visiting scholars.’’; 

(2) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding 
paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Not later 
than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the’’ and inserting ‘‘The’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following new 
subsection: 
‘‘(c) SUBSEASONAL DEFINED.—In this section, 
the term ‘subseasonal’ means the time 
range between 2 weeks and 3 months.’’. 

SEC. 110. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

(a) FISCAL YEARS 2016 THROUGH 2018.—For 
each of fiscal years 2016 through 2018, there 
are authorized to be appropriated to Office of 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Research— 
(1) $111,516,000 to carry out this title, of 
which— 
(A) $85,758,000 is authorized for weather 
laboratories and cooperative institutes; and 
(B) $25,758,000 is authorized for weather and 
air chemistry research programs; and 
(2) an additional amount of $20,000,000 for 
the joint technology transfer initiative described 
in section 102(b)(4). 
(b) LIMITATION.—No additional funds are 
authorized to carry out this title and the 
amendments made by this title. 
TITLE II—SUBSEASONAL AND SEASONAL 
FORECASTING INNOVATION 
SEC. 201. IMPROVING SUBSEASONAL AND SEASONAL 
FORECASTS. 

Section 1762 of the Food Security Act of 
1985 (Public Law 99–198; 15 U.S.C. 313 note) is 
amended— 

(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘(a)’’ and 
inserting ‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—’’; 
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘(b)’’ and 
inserting ‘‘(b) POLICY.—’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(c) FUNCTIONS.—The Under Secretary, 
acting through the Director of the National 
Weather Service and the heads of such other 
programs of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration as the Under Secretary 
considers appropriate, shall— 

‘‘(1) collect and utilize information in 
order to make usable, reliable, and timely 
foundational forecasts of subseasonal and 
seasonal temperature and precipitation; 

‘‘(2) leverage existing research and models 
from the weather enterprise to improve the 
forecasts under paragraph (1); 

‘‘(3) determine and provide information on 
how the forecasted conditions under paragraph 
(1) may impact— 

‘‘(A) the number and severity of droughts, 
fires, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, heat 
waves, coastal inundation, winter storms, 
high impact weather, or other relevant natural 
disasters; 

‘‘(B) snowpack; and 

‘‘(C) sea ice conditions; and 

‘‘(4) develop an Internet clearinghouse to 
provide the forecasts under paragraph (1) and 
the information under paragraphs (1) and (3) 
on both national and regional levels. 

‘‘(d) COMMUNICATION.—The Director of the 
National Weather Service shall provide the 
forecasts under paragraph (1) of subsection 

(c) and the information on their impacts 
under paragraph (3) of such subsection to the 
public, including public and private entities 
engaged in planning and preparedness, such 
as National Weather Service Core partners 
at the Federal, regional, State, tribal, and 
local levels of government. 
‘‘(e) COOPERATION.—The Under Secretary 
shall build upon existing forecasting and assessment 
programs and partnerships, including— 


‘‘(1) by designating research and monitoring 
activities related to subseasonal and 
seasonal forecasts as a priority in 1 or more 
solicitations of the Cooperative Institutes of 
the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research; 


‘‘(2) by contributing to the interagency 
Earth System Prediction Capability; and 

‘‘(3) by consulting with the Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
to determine the highest priority sub-
seasonal and seasonal forecast needs to enhance 
national security. 

‘‘(f) FORECAST COMMUNICATION COORDINATORS.— 


‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary 
shall foster effective communication, understanding, 
and use of the forecasts by the intended 
users of the information described in 
subsection (d). This may include assistance 
to States for forecast communication coordinators 
to enable local interpretation and 
planning based on the information. 

‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—For each State that 
requests assistance under this subsection, 
the Under Secretary may— 

‘‘(A) provide funds to support an individual 
in that State— 

‘‘(i) to serve as a liaison among the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
other Federal departments and agencies, 
the weather enterprise, the State, and 
relevant interests within that State; and 

‘‘(ii) to receive the forecasts and information 
under subsection (c) and disseminate 
the forecasts and information throughout 
the State, including to county and tribal 
governments; and 

‘‘(B) require matching funds of at least 50 
percent, from the State, a university, a nongovernmental 
organization, a trade association, 
or the private sector. 

‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—Assistance to an individual 
State under this subsection shall not 
exceed $100,000 in a fiscal year. 

‘‘(g) COOPERATION FROM OTHER FEDERAL 
AGENCIES.—Each Federal department and 
agency shall cooperate as appropriate with 
the Under Secretary in carrying out this section. 


‘‘(h) REPORTS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 18 months 
after the date of the enactment of the 
Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation 
Act of 2016, the Under Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
and the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology of the House of Representatives 
a report, including— 

‘‘(A) an analysis of the how information 
from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration on subseasonal and seasonal 
forecasts, as provided under subsection (c), is 
utilized in public planning and preparedness; 

‘‘(B) specific plans and goals for the continued 
development of the subseasonal and seasonal 
forecasts and related products described 
in subsection (c); and 

‘‘(C) an identification of research, monitoring, 
observing, and forecasting requirements 
to meet the goals described in subparagraph 
(B). 

‘‘(2) CONSULTATION.—In developing the report 
under paragraph (1), the Under Secretary 
shall consult with relevant Federal, 
regional, State, tribal, and local government 
agencies, research institutions, and the private 
sector. 

‘‘(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this section: 

‘‘(1) FOUNDATIONAL FORECAST.—The term 
‘foundational forecast’ means basic weather 
observation and forecast data, largely in raw 
form, before further processing is applied. 

‘‘(2) NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE CORE PARTNERS.—
The term ‘National Weather Service 
core partners’ means government and non-
government entities which are directly in


volved in the preparation or dissemination 
of, or discussions involving, hazardous 
weather or other emergency information put 
out by the National Weather Service. 

‘‘(3) SEASONAL.—The term ‘seasonal’ means 
the time range between 3 months and 2 
years. 

‘‘(4) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means a 
State, a territory, or possession of the 
United States, including a Commonwealth, 
or the District of Columbia. 

‘‘(5) SUBSEASONAL.—The term ‘subseasonal’ 
means the time range between 2 weeks and 3 
months. 

‘‘(6) UNDER SECRETARY.—The term ‘Under 
Secretary’ means the Under Secretary of 
Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere. 

‘‘(7) WEATHER INDUSTRY AND WEATHER EN-
TERPRISE.—The terms ‘weather industry’ and 
‘weather enterprise’ are interchangeable in 
this section and include individuals and organizations 
from public, private, and academic 
sectors that contribute to the research, 
development, and production of 
weather forecast products, and primary consumers 
of these weather forecast products. 

‘‘(j) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
For each of fiscal years 2016 through 2018, 
there are authorized out of funds appropriated 
to the National Weather Service, 
$26,500,000 to carry out the activities of this 
section.’’. 

TITLE III—WEATHER SATELLITE AND 
DATA INNOVATION 
SEC. 301. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC 
ADMINISTRATION SATELLITE 
AND DATA MANAGEMENT. 

(a) SHORT-TERM MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL 
OBSERVATIONS.— 
(1) MICROSATELLITE CONSTELLATIONS.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary 
shall complete and operationalize the Constellation 
Observing System for Meteorology, 
Ionosphere, and Climate-1 and Climate-
2 (COSMIC) in effect on the day before 
the date of the enactment of this Act— 
(i) by deploying constellations of microsatellites 
in both the equatorial and polar orbits; 
(ii) by integrating the resulting data and 
research into all national operational and research 
weather forecast models; and 
(iii) by ensuring that the resulting data of 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s 
COSMIC-1 and COSMIC-2 programs 
are free and open to all communities. 
(B) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Not less frequently 
than once each year until the Under Secretary 
has completed and operationalized the 
program described in subparagraph (A) pursuant 
to such subparagraph, the Under Secretary 
shall submit to Congress a report on 
the status of the efforts of the Under Secretary 
to carry out such subparagraph. 
(2) INTEGRATION OF OCEAN AND COASTAL 
DATA FROM THE INTEGRATED OCEAN OBSERVING 
SYSTEM.—In National Weather Service Regions 
where the Director of the National 
Weather Service determines that ocean and 
coastal data would improve forecasts, the Director, 
in consultation with the Assistant 
Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research and the Assistant Administrator of 
the National Ocean Service, shall— 
(A) integrate additional coastal and ocean 
observations, and other data and research, 
from the Integrated Ocean Observing System 
(IOOS) into regional weather forecasts to improve 
weather forecasts and forecasting decision 
support systems; and 
(B) support the development of real-time 
data sharing products and forecast products 
in collaboration with the regional associations 
of such system, including contributions 
from the private sector, academia, and research 
institutions to ensure timely and accurate 
use of ocean and coastal data in regional 
forecasts. 

S6672 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

(3) EXISTING MONITORING AND OBSERVATION-
CAPABILITY.—The Under Secretary shall 
identify degradation of existing monitoring 
and observation capabilities that could lead 
to a reduction in forecast quality. 
(4) SPECIFICATIONS FOR NEW SATELLITE SYSTEMS 
OR DATA DETERMINED BY OPERATIONAL 
NEEDS.—In developing specifications for any 
satellite systems or data to follow the Joint 
Polar Satellite System, Geostationary Operational 
Environmental Satellites, and any 
other satellites, in effect on the day before 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Under 
Secretary shall ensure the specifications are 
determined to the extent practicable by the 
recommendations of the reports under subsection 
(b) of this section. 
(b) INDEPENDENT STUDY ON FUTURE OF NATIONAL 
OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION 
SATELLITE SYSTEMS AND DATA.— 
(1) AGREEMENT.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary 
shall seek to enter into an agreement with 
the National Academy of Sciences to perform 
the services covered by this subsection. 
(B) TIMING.—The Under Secretary shall 
seek to enter into the agreement described 
in subparagraph (A) before September 30, 
2018. 
(2) STUDY.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—Under an agreement between 
the Under Secretary and the National 
Academy of Sciences under this subsection, 
the National Academy of Sciences shall conduct 
a study on matters concerning future 
satellite data needs. 
(B) ELEMENTS.—In conducting the study 
under subparagraph (A), the National Academy 
of Sciences shall— 
(i) develop recommendations on how to 
make the data portfolio of the Administration 
more robust and cost-effective; 
(ii) assess the costs and benefits of moving 
toward a constellation of many small satellites, 
standardizing satellite bus design, relying 
more on the purchasing of data, or acquiring 
data from other sources or methods; 
(iii) identify the environmental observations 
that are essential to the performance 
of weather models, based on an assessment of 
Federal, academic, and private sector weather 
research, and the cost of obtaining the environmental 
data; 
(iv) identify environmental observations 
that improve the quality of operational and 
research weather models in effect on the day 
before the date of enactment of this Act; 
(v) identify and prioritize new environmental 
observations that could contribute to 
existing and future weather models; and 
(vi) develop recommendations on a portfolio 
of environmental observations that balances 
essential, quality-improving, and new 
data, private and nonprivate sources, and 
space-based and Earth-based sources. 
(C) DEADLINE AND REPORT.—In carrying out 
the study under subparagraph (A), the National 
Academy of Sciences shall complete 
and transmit to the Under Secretary a report 
containing the findings of the National 
Academy of Sciences with respect to the 
study not later than 2 years after the date on 
which the Administrator enters into an 
agreement with the National Academy of 
Sciences under paragraph (1)(A). 
(3) ALTERNATE ORGANIZATION.— 
(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Under Secretary is 
unable within the period prescribed in subparagraph 
(B) of paragraph (1) to enter into 
an agreement described in subparagraph (A) 
of such paragraph with the National Academy 
of Sciences on terms acceptable to the 
Under Secretary, the Under Secretary shall 
seek to enter into such an agreement with 
another appropriate organization that— 
(i) is not part of the Federal Government; 
(ii) operates as a not-for-profit entity; and 
(iii) has expertise and objectivity comparable 
to that of the National Academy of 
Sciences. 
(B) TREATMENT.—If the Under Secretary 
enters into an agreement with another organization 
as described in subparagraph (A), 
any reference in this subsection to the National 
Academy of Sciences shall be treated 
as a reference to the other organization. 
(4) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
There are authorized to be appropriated, out 
of funds appropriated to National Environmental 
Satellite, Data, and Information 
Service, to carry out this subsection 
$1,000,000 for the period encompassing fiscal 
years 2018 through 2019. 
SEC. 302. COMMERCIAL WEATHER DATA. 

(a) DATA AND HOSTED SATELLITE PAYLOADS.—
Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Secretary of Commerce may 
enter into agreements for— 
(1) the purchase of weather data through 
contracts with commercial providers; and 
(2) the placement of weather satellite instruments 
on cohosted government or private 
payloads. 
(b) STRATEGY.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation 
with the Under Secretary, shall submit to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology of 
the House of Representatives a strategy to 
enable the procurement of quality commercial 
weather data. The strategy shall assess 
the range of commercial opportunities, including 
public-private partnerships, for obtaining 
surface-based, aviation-based, and 
space-based weather observations. The strategy 
shall include the expected cost-effectiveness 
of these opportunities as well as provide 
a plan for procuring data, including an expected 
implementation timeline, from these 
nongovernmental sources, as appropriate. 
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The strategy shall include— 
(A) an analysis of financial or other benefits 
to, and risks associated with, acquiring 
commercial weather data or services, including 
through multiyear acquisition approaches; 
(B) an identification of methods to address 
planning, programming, budgeting, and execution 
challenges to such approaches, including— 
(i) how standards will be set to ensure that 
data is reliable and effective; 
(ii) how data may be acquired through 
commercial experimental or innovative techniques 
and then evaluated for integration 
into operational use; 
(iii) how to guarantee public access to all 
forecast-critical data to ensure that the 
United States weather industry and the public 
continue to have access to information 
critical to their work; and 
(iv) in accordance with section 50503 of 
title 51, United States Code, methods to address 
potential termination liability or cancellation 
costs associated with weather data 
or service contracts; and 
(C) an identification of any changes needed 
in the requirements development and approval 
processes of the Department of Commerce 
to facilitate effective and efficient implementation 
of such strategy. 
(3) AUTHORITY FOR AGREEMENTS.—The Assistant 
Administrator for National Environmental 
Satellite, Data, and Information 
Service may enter into multiyear agreements 
necessary to carry out the strategy 
developed under this subsection. 
(c) PILOT PROGRAM.— 
(1) CRITERIA.—Not later than 30 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Under Secretary shall publish data and 
metadata standards and specifications for 
space-based commercial weather data, including 
radio occultation data, and, as soon 
as possible, geostationary hyperspectral 
sounder data. 

(2) PILOT CONTRACTS.— 
(A) CONTRACTS.—Not later than 90 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Under Secretary shall, through an open competition, 
enter into at least one pilot contract 
with one or more private sector entities 
capable of providing data that meet the 
standards and specifications set by the 
Under Secretary for providing commercial 
weather data in a manner that allows the 
Under Secretary to calibrate and evaluate 
the data for its use in National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration meteorological 
models. 
(B) ASSESSMENT OF DATA VIABILITY.—Not 
later than the date that is 3 years after the 
date on which the Under Secretary enters 
into a contract under subparagraph (A), the 
Under Secretary shall assess and submit to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology of 
the House of Representatives the results of a 
determination of the extent to which data 
provided under the contract entered into 
under subparagraph (A) meet the criteria 
published under paragraph (1) and the extent 
to which the pilot program has demonstrated— 
(i) the viability of assimilating the commercially 
provided data into National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration meteorological 
models; 
(ii) whether, and by how much, the data 
add value to weather forecasts; and 
(iii) the accuracy, quality, timeliness, validity, 
reliability, usability, information 
technology security, and cost-effectiveness 
of obtaining commercial weather data from 
private sector providers. 
(3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— 
For each of fiscal years 2017 through 2020, 
there are authorized to be appropriated for 
procurement, acquisition, and construction 
at National Environmental Satellite, Data, 
and Information Service, $6,000,000 to carry 
out this subsection. 
(d) OBTAINING FUTURE DATA.—If an assessment 
under subsection (c)(2)(B) demonstrates 
the ability of commercial weather 
data to meet data and metadata standards 
and specifications published under subsection 
(c)(1), the Under Secretary shall— 
(1) where appropriate, cost-effective, and 
feasible, obtain commercial weather data 
from private sector providers; 
(2) as early as possible in the acquisition 
process for any future National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration meteorological 
space system, consider whether there is a 
suitable, cost-effective, commercial capability 
available or that will be available to 
meet any or all of the observational requirements 
by the planned operational date of the 
system; 
(3) if a suitable, cost-effective, commercial 
capability is or will be available as described 
in paragraph (2), determine whether it is in 
the national interest to develop a governmental 
meteorological space system; and 
(4) submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
and the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology of the House of Representatives 
a report detailing any determination made 
under paragraphs (2) and (3). 
(e) DATA SHARING PRACTICES.—The Under 
Secretary shall continue to meet the international 
meteorological agreements into 
which the Under Secretary has entered, including 
practices set forth through World 
Meteorological Organization Resolution 40. 

December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6673 

SEC. 303. UNNECESSARY DUPLICATION. 

In meeting the requirements under this 
title, the Under Secretary shall avoid unnecessary 
duplication between public and private 
sources of data and the corresponding 
expenditure of funds and employment of personnel. 


TITLE IV—FEDERAL WEATHER 
COORDINATION 
SEC. 401. ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION SERVICES 
WORKING GROUP. 

(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration Science 
Advisory Board shall continue to maintain a 
standing working group named the Environmental 
Information Services Working Group 
(in this section referred to as the ‘‘Working 
Group’’)— 
(1) to provide advice for prioritizing weather 
research initiatives at the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration to 
produce real improvement in weather forecasting; 
(2) to provide advice on existing or emerging 
technologies or techniques that can be 
found in private industry or the research 
community that could be incorporated into 
forecasting at the National Weather Service 
to improve forecasting skill; 
(3) to identify opportunities to improve— 
(A) communications between weather forecasters, 
Federal, State, local, tribal, and 
other emergency management personnel, and 
the public; and 
(B) communications and partnerships 
among the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration and the private and 
academic sectors; and 
(4) to address such other matters as the 
Science Advisory Board requests of the 
Working Group. 
(b) COMPOSITION.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Working Group shall 
be composed of leading experts and 
innovators from all relevant fields of science 
and engineering including atmospheric 
chemistry, atmospheric physics, meteorology, 
hydrology, social science, risk communications, 
electrical engineering, and 
computer sciences. In carrying out this section, 
the Working Group may organize into 
subpanels. 
(2) NUMBER.—The Working Group shall be 
composed of no fewer than 15 members. 
Nominees for the Working Group may be forwarded 
by the Working Group for approval 
by the Science Advisory Board. Members of 
the Working Group may choose a chair (or 
co-chairs) from among their number with approval 
by the Science Advisory Board. 
(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not less frequently 
than once each year, the Working Group 
shall transmit to the Science Advisory Board 
for submission to the Under Secretary a report 
on progress made by National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration in adopting 
the Working Group’s recommendations. The 
Science Advisory Board shall transmit this 
report to the Under Secretary. Within 30 
days of receipt of such report, the Under Secretary 
shall submit to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
the Senate and the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives 
a copy of such report. 
SEC. 402. INTERAGENCY WEATHER RESEARCH 
AND FORECAST INNOVATION COORDINATION. 


(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Director of the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy 
shall establish an Interagency Committee 
for Advancing Weather Services to improve 
coordination of relevant weather research 
and forecast innovation activities across the 
Federal Government. The Interagency Committee 
shall— 
(1) include participation by the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, the 
Federal Aviation Administration, National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
and its constituent elements, the National 
Science Foundation, and such other agencies 
involved in weather forecasting research as 
the President determines are appropriate; 

(2) identify and prioritize top forecast 
needs and coordinate those needs against 
budget requests and program initiatives 
across participating offices and agencies; and 
(3) share information regarding operational 
needs and forecasting improvements 
across relevant agencies. 
(b) CO-CHAIR.—The Federal Coordinator for 
Meteorology shall serve as a co-chair of this 
panel. 
(c) FURTHER COORDINATION.—The Director 
of the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
shall take such other steps as are necessary 
to coordinate the activities of the 
Federal Government with those of the 
United States weather industry, State governments, 
emergency managers, and academic 
researchers. 
SEC. 403. OFFICE OF OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC 
RESEARCH AND NATIONAL 
WEATHER SERVICE EXCHANGE PROGRAM. 


(a) IN GENERAL.—The Assistant Administrator 
for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research 
and the Director of National Weather Service 
may establish a program to detail Office 
of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research personnel 
to the National Weather Service and 
National Weather Service personnel to the 
Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research. 
(b) GOAL.—The goal of this program is to 
enhance forecasting innovation through regular, 
direct interaction between the Office of 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Research’s world-
class scientists and the National Weather 
Service’s operational staff. 
(c) ELEMENTS.—The program shall allow up 
to 10 Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research 
staff and National Weather Service 
staff to spend up to 1 year on detail. Candidates 
shall be jointly selected by the Assistant 
Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research and the Director of the 
National Weather Service. 
(d) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not less frequently 
than once each year, the Under Secretary 
shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate and the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives 
a report on participation in 
such program and shall highlight any innovations 
that come from this interaction. 
SEC. 404. VISITING FELLOWS AT NATIONAL 
WEATHER SERVICE. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the National 
Weather Service may establish a program 
to host postdoctoral fellows and academic 
researchers at any of the National 
Centers for Environmental Prediction. 
(b) GOAL.—This program shall be designed 
to provide direct interaction between forecasters 
and talented academic and private 
sector researchers in an effort to bring innovation 
to forecasting tools and techniques to 
the National Weather Service. 
(c) SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT.—Such fellows 
shall be competitively selected and appointed 
for a term not to exceed 1 year. 
SEC. 405. WARNING COORDINATION METEOROLOGISTS 
AT WEATHER FORECAST OFFICES 
OF NATIONAL WEATHER 
SERVICE. 

(a) DESIGNATION OF WARNING COORDINATION 
METEOROLOGISTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the National 
Weather Service shall designate at 
least 1 warning coordination meteorologist 
at each weather forecast office of the National 
Weather Service. 
(2) NO ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEES AUTHORIZED.—
Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to authorize or require a change in 
the authorized number of full time equivalent 
employees in the National Weather 
Service or otherwise result in the employment 
of any additional employees. 

(3) PERFORMANCE BY OTHER EMPLOYEES.— 
Performance of the responsibilities outlined 
in this section is not limited to the warning 
coordination meteorologist position. 
(b) PRIMARY ROLE OF WARNING COORDINATION 
METEOROLOGISTS.—The primary role of 
the warning coordination meteorologist 
shall be to carry out the responsibilities required 
by this section. 
(c) RESPONSIBILITIES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), 
consistent with the analysis described in section 
409, and in order to increase impact-
based decision support services, each warning 
coordination meteorologist designated 
under subsection (a) shall— 
(A) be responsible for providing service to 
the geographic area of responsibility covered 
by the weather forecast office at which the 
warning coordination meteorologist is employed 
to help ensure that users of products 
of the National Weather Service can respond 
effectively to improve outcomes from weather 
events; 
(B) liaise with users of products and services 
of the National Weather Service, such as 
the public, media outlets, users in the aviation, 
marine, and agricultural communities, 
and forestry, land, and water management 
interests, to evaluate the adequacy and usefulness 
of the products and services of the 
National Weather Service; 
(C) collaborate with such weather forecast 
offices and State, local, and tribal government 
agencies as the Director considers appropriate 
in developing, proposing, and implementing 
plans to develop, modify, or tailor 
products and services of the National 
Weather Service to improve the usefulness of 
such products and services; 
(D) ensure the maintenance and accuracy 
of severe weather call lists, appropriate office 
severe weather policy or procedures, and 
other severe weather or dissemination methodologies 
or strategies; and 
(E) work closely with State, local, and 
tribal emergency management agencies, and 
other agencies related to disaster management, 
to ensure a planned, coordinated, and 
effective preparedness and response effort. 
(2) OTHER STAFF.—The Director may assign 
a responsibility set forth in paragraph (1) to 
such other staff as the Director considers appropriate 
to carry out such responsibility. 
(d) ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), a 
warning coordination meteorologist designated 
under subsection (a) may— 
(A) work with a State agency to develop 
plans for promoting more effective use of 
products and services of the National Weather 
Service throughout the State; 
(B) identify priority community preparedness 
objectives; 
(C) develop plans to meet the objectives 
identified under paragraph (2); and 
(D) conduct severe weather event preparedness 
planning and citizen education efforts 
with and through various State, local, and 
tribal government agencies and other disaster 
management-related organizations. 
(2) OTHER STAFF.—The Director may assign 
a responsibility set forth in paragraph (1) to 
such other staff as the Director considers appropriate 
to carry out such responsibility. 
(e) PLACEMENT WITH STATE AND LOCAL 
EMERGENCY MANAGERS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out this section, 
the Director of the National Weather 
Service may place a warning coordination 
meteorologist designated under subsection 
(a) with a State or local emergency manager 

S6674 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

if the Director considers doing so is necessary 
or convenient to carry out this section. 


(2) TREATMENT.—If the Director determines 
that the placement of a warning coordination 
meteorologist placed with a State or 
local emergency manager under paragraph 
(1) is near a weather forecast office of the 
National Weather Service, such placement 
shall be treated as designation of the warning 
coordination meteorologist at such 
weather forecast office for purposes of subsection 
(a). 
SEC. 406. IMPROVING NATIONAL OCEANIC AND 
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION 
COMMUNICATION OF HAZARDOUS 
WEATHER AND WATER EVENTS. 

(a) PURPOSE OF SYSTEM.—For purposes of 
the assessment required by subsection 
(b)(1)(A), the purpose of National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration system for 
issuing watches and warnings regarding hazardous 
weather and water events shall be 
risk communication to the general public 
that informs action to prevent loss of life 
and property. 
(b) ASSESSMENT OF SYSTEM.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Under Secretary shall— 
(A) assess the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration system for issuing 
watches and warnings regarding hazardous 
weather and water events; and 
(B) submit to Congress a report on the 
findings of the Under Secretary with respect 
to the assessment conducted under subparagraph 
(A). 
(2) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required by 
paragraph (1)(A) shall include the following: 
(A) An evaluation of whether the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
system for issuing watches and warnings regarding 
hazardous weather and water events 
meets the purpose described in subsection 
(a). 
(B) Development of recommendations for— 
(i) legislative and administrative action to 
improve the system described in paragraph 
(1)(A); and 
(ii) such research as the Under Secretary 
considers necessary to address the focus 
areas described in paragraph (3). 
(3) FOCUS AREAS.—The assessment required 
by paragraph (1)(A) shall focus on the following: 
(A) Ways to communicate the risks posed 
by hazardous weather or water events to the 
public that are most likely to result in action 
to mitigate the risk. 
(B) Ways to communicate the risks posed 
by hazardous weather or water events to the 
public as broadly and rapidly as practicable. 
(C) Ways to preserve the benefits of the existing 
watches and warnings system. 
(D) Ways to maintain the utility of the 
watches and warnings system for Government 
and commercial users of the system. 
(4) CONSULTATION.—In conducting the assessment 
required by paragraph (1)(A), the 
Under Secretary shall— 
(A) consult with such line offices within 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
as the Under Secretary considers 
relevant, including the the National 
Ocean Service, the National Weather Service, 
and the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Research; 
(B) consult with individuals in the academic 
sector, including individuals in the 
field of social and behavioral sciences, and 
other weather services; 
(C) consult with media outlets that will be 
distributing the watches and warnings; 
(D) consult with non-Federal forecasters 
that produce alternate severe weather risk 
communication products; 
(E) consult with emergency planners and 
responders, including State and local emergency 
management agencies, and other government 
users of the watches and warnings 
system, including the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency, the Office of Personnel 
Management, the Coast Guard, and such 
other Federal agencies as the Under Secretary 
determines rely on watches and warnings 
for operational decisions; and 
(F) make use of the services of the National 
Academy of Sciences, as the Under 
Secretary considers necessary and practicable, 
including contracting with the National 
Research Council to review the scientific 
and technical soundness of the assessment 
required by paragraph (1)(A), including 
the recommendations developed under paragraph 
(2)(B). 
(5) METHODOLOGIES.—In conducting the assessment 
required by paragraph (1)(A), the 
Under Secretary shall use such methodologies 
as the Under Secretary considers are 
generally accepted by the weather enterprise, 
including social and behavioral 
sciences. 
(c) IMPROVEMENTS TO SYSTEM.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary 
shall, based on the assessment required by 
subsection (b)(1)(A), make such recommendations 
to Congress to improve the system as 
the Under Secretary considers necessary— 
(A) to improve the system for issuing 
watches and warnings regarding hazardous 
weather and water events; and 
(B) to support efforts to satisfy research 
needs to enable future improvements to such 
system. 
(2) REQUIREMENTS REGARDING RECOMMENDA-
TIONS.—In carrying out paragraph (1)(A), the 
Under Secretary shall ensure that any recommendation 
that the Under Secretary considers 
a major change— 
(A) is validated by social and behavioral 
science using a generalizable sample; 
(B) accounts for the needs of various demographics, 
vulnerable populations, and geographic 
regions; 
(C) accounts for the differences between 
types of weather and water hazards; 
(D) responds to the needs of Federal, State, 
and local government partners and media 
partners; and 
(E) accounts for necessary changes to Federally-
operated watch and warning propagation 
and dissemination infrastructure and 
protocols. 
(d) WATCHES AND WARNINGS DEFINED.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), in this section, the terms 
‘‘watch’’ and ‘‘warning’’, with respect to a 
hazardous weather and water event, mean 
products issued by the Administration, intended 
for consumption by the general public, 
to alert the general public to the potential 
for or presence of the event and to inform 
action to prevent loss of life and property. 
(2) EXCEPTION.—ln this section, the terms 
‘‘watch’’ and ‘‘warning’’ do not include technical 
or specialized meteorological and 
hydrological forecasts, outlooks, or model 
guidance products. 
SEC. 407. NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC 
ADMINISTRATION WEATHER 
READY ALL HAZARDS AWARD PROGRAM. 


(a) PROGRAM.—The Director of the National 
Weather Service is authorized to establish 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration Weather Ready All 
Hazards Award Program. This award program 
shall provide annual awards to honor 
individuals or organizations that use or provide 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
Weather Radio All Hazards receivers 
or transmitters to save lives and protect 
property. Individuals or organizations 
that utilize other early warning tools or applications 
also qualify for this award. 

(b) GOAL.—This award program draws attention 
to the life-saving work of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
Weather Ready All Hazards Program, as 
well as emerging tools and applications, that 
provide real-time warning to individuals and 
communities of severe weather or other hazardous 
conditions. 
(c) PROGRAM ELEMENTS.— 
(1) NOMINATIONS.—Nominations for this 
award shall be made annually by the Weather 
Field Offices to the Director of the National 
Weather Service. Broadcast meteorologists, 
weather radio manufacturers and 
weather warning tool and application developers, 
emergency managers, and public safety 
officials may nominate individuals or organizations 
to their local Weather Field Offices, 
but the final list of award nominees 
must come from the Weather Field Offices. 
(2) SELECTION OF AWARDEES.—Annually, the 
Director of the National Weather Service 
shall choose winners of this award whose 
timely actions, based on National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration Weather 
Radio All Hazards receivers or transmitters 
or other early warning tools and applications, 
saved lives or property, or demonstrated 
public service in support of weather 
or all hazard warnings. 
(3) AWARD CEREMONY.—The Director of the 
National Weather Service shall establish a 
means of making these awards to provide 
maximum public awareness of the importance 
of National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration Weather Radio, and such 
other warning tools and applications as are 
represented in the awards. 
SEC. 408. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WEATHER 
FORECASTING ACTIVITIES. 

Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary 
shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate and the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives 
a report analyzing the impacts 
of the proposed Air Force divestiture in the 
United States Weather Research and Forecasting 
Model, including— 

(1) the impact on— 
(A) the United States weather forecasting 
capabilities; 
(B) the accuracy of civilian regional forecasts; 
(C) the civilian readiness for traditional 
weather and extreme weather events in the 
United States; and 
(D) the research necessary to develop the 
United States Weather Research and Forecasting 
Model; and 
(2) such other analysis relating to the divestiture 
as the Under Secretary considers 
appropriate. 
SEC. 409. NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE; OPERATIONS 
AND WORKFORCE ANALYSIS. 

The Under Secretary shall contract or continue 
to partner with an external organization 
to conduct a baseline analysis of National 
Weather Service operations and workforce. 


SEC. 410. WATER RESOURCES. 

(a) NATIONAL WATER CENTER.— 
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Under Secretary 
shall maintain a National Water Center. 
(2) FUNCTIONS.—The National Water Center 
may— 
(A) facilitate collaboration across Federal 
and State departments and agencies, academia, 
and the private sector to improve understanding 
of water resources; 
(B) make recommendations to water resource 
managers; 
(C) make recommendations to improve 
water resource forecasts; and 

December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6675 

(D) facilitate the transition of water research 
into applications. 
(b) TOTAL WATER PREDICTION.—The Under 
Secretary, through the National Water Center, 
shall— 
(1) initiate research and development activities 
to develop operational water resource 
prediction products; 
(2) collaborate with, and provide decision 
support regarding total water prediction to, 
other relevant Federal and State agencies, 
including— 
(A) the Army Corps of Engineers; 
(B) the United States Geological Survey; 
(C) the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency; 
(D) the National Science Foundation; 
(E) the Environmental Protection Agency; 
(F) State water resource agencies; and 
(G) State emergency management agencies; 
and 
(3) in carrying out the responsibilities described 
in paragraphs (1) and (2), develop capabilities 
necessary for total water predictive 
capacity, including observations, 
modeling, data management, supercomputing, 
social science, and communications. 
(c) REPORT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the National Water Center shall submit to 
the Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
Civil Works a report on total water predictive 
capabilities and products. 
(2) CONTENTS.—The report may include recommendations 
to improve engineering, design, 
operations, and management of civil 
works projects, including the Central and 
Southern Florida Project and any project in 
the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint River 
System, to optimize water management, including 
the implications of total water predictive 
products for— 
(A) environmental protection and restoration, 
including restoration of water quality, 
water flows, fish, and other aquatic species; 
(B) reduced flood risk; and 
(C) improved recreation. 
SEC. 411. REPORT ON CONTRACT POSITIONS AT 
NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE. 

(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to 
Congress a report on the use of contractors 
at the National Weather Service for the most 
recently completed fiscal year. 
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by subsection 
(a) shall include, with respect to the 
most recently completed fiscal year, the following: 
(1) The total number of full-time equivalent 
employees at the National Weather 
Service, disaggregated by each equivalent 
level of the General Schedule. 
(2) The total number of full-time equivalent 
contractors at the National Weather 
Service, disaggregated by each equivalent 
level of the General Schedule that most 
closely approximates their duties. 
(3) The total number of vacant positions at 
the National Weather Service on the day before 
the date of enactment of this Act, 
disaggregated by each equivalent level of the 
General Schedule. 
(4) The 5 most common positions filled by 
full-time equivalent contractors at the National 
Weather Service and the equivalent 
level of the General Schedule that most 
closely approximates the duties of such positions. 
(5) Of the positions identified under paragraph 
(4), the percentage of full-time equivalent 
contractors in those positions that have 
held a prior position at the National Weather 
Service or another entity in National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration. 
(6) The average full-time equivalent salary 
for Federal employees at the National 
Weather Service for each equivalent level of 
the General Schedule. 

(7) The average salary for full-time equivalent 
contractors performing at each equivalent 
level of the General Schedule at the National 
Weather Service. 
(8) A description of any actions taken by 
the Under Secretary to respond to the issues 
raised by the Inspector General of the Department 
of Commerce regarding the hiring 
of former National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration employees as contractors at 
the National Weather Service such as the 
issues raised in the Investigative Report 
dated June 2, 2015 (OIG–12–0447). 
(c) ANNUAL PUBLICATION.—For each fiscal 
year after the fiscal year covered by the report 
required by subsection (a), the Under 
Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after 
the completion of the fiscal year, publish on 
a publicly accessible Internet website the information 
described in paragraphs (1) 
through (8) of subsection (b) for such fiscal 
year. 
SEC. 412. WEATHER IMPACTS TO COMMUNITIES 
AND INFRASTRUCTURE. 

(a) REVIEW.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the National 
Weather Service shall review existing 
research, products, and services that meet 
the specific needs of the urban environment, 
given its unique physical characteristics and 
forecasting challenges. 
(2) ELEMENTS.—The review required by 
paragraph (1) shall include research, products, 
and services with the potential to improve 
modeling and forecasting capabilities, 
taking into account factors including varying 
building heights, impermeable surfaces, 
lack of tree canopy, traffic, pollution, and 
inter-building wind effects. 
(b) REPORT AND ASSESSMENT.—Upon completion 
of the review required by subsection 
(a), the Under Secretary shall submit to Congress 
a report on the research, products, and 
services of the National Weather Service, including 
an assessment of such research, 
products, and services that is based on the 
review, public comment, and recent publications 
by the National Academy of Sciences. 
SEC. 413. WEATHER ENTERPRISE OUTREACH. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary may 
establish mechanisms for outreach to the 
weather enterprise— 
(1) to assess the weather forecasts and forecast 
products provided by the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration; and 
(2) to determine the highest priority 
weather forecast needs of the community described 
in subsection (b). 
(b) OUTREACH COMMUNITY.—In conducting 
outreach under subsection (a), the Under 
Secretary shall contact leading experts and 
innovators from relevant stakeholders, including 
the representatives from the following: 
(1) State or local emergency management 
agencies. 
(2) State agriculture agencies. 
(3) Indian tribes (as defined in section 4 of 
the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)) and 
Native Hawaiians (as defined in section 6207 
of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7517)). 
(4) The private aerospace industry. 
(5) The private earth observing industry. 
(6) The operational forecasting community. 
(7) The academic community. 
(8) Professional societies that focus on meteorology. 
(9) Such other stakeholder groups as the 
Under Secretary considers appropriate. 
SA 5126. Mr. SULLIVAN (for Ms. 
CANTWELL) proposed an amendment to 

amendment SA 5125 proposed by Mr. 
SULLIVAN (for Mr. THUNE (for himself 
and Mr. NELSON)) to the bill H.R. 1561, 
to improve the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration’s weather 
research through a focused program of 
investment on affordable and attainable 
advances in observational, computing, 
and modeling capabilities to 
support substantial improvement in 
weather forecasting and prediction of 
high impact weather events, to expand 
commercial opportunities for the provision 
of weather data, and for other 
purposes; as follows: 

At the appropriate place, insert the following: 
TITLE ll—TSUNAMI WARNING, 
EDUCATION, AND RESEARCH ACT OF 2016 
SEC. l01. SHORT TITLE. 

This title may be cited as the ‘‘Tsunami 
Warning, Education, and Research Act of 
2016’’. 

SEC. l02. REFERENCES TO THE TSUNAMI WARNING 
AND EDUCATION ACT. 

Except as otherwise expressly provided, 
whenever in this title an amendment or repeal 
is expressed in terms of an amendment 
to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, 
the reference shall be considered to be made 
to a section or other provision of the Tsunami 
Warning and Education Act (Public 
Law 109–424; 33 U.S.C. 3201 et seq.). 

SEC. l03. EXPANSION OF PURPOSES OF TSUNAMI 
WARNING AND EDUCATION ACT. 

Section 3 (33 U.S.C. 3202) is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘research,’’ 
after ‘‘warnings,’’; 
(2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(2) to enhance and modernize the existing 
United States Tsunami Warning System to 
increase the accuracy of forecasts and warnings, 
to ensure full coverage of tsunami 
threats to the United States with a network 
of detection assets, and to reduce false 
alarms;’’; 

(3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(3) to improve and develop standards and 
guidelines for mapping, modeling, and assessment 
efforts to improve tsunami detection, 
forecasting, warnings, notification, 
mitigation, resiliency, response, outreach, 
and recovery;’’; 

(4) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and 
(6) as paragraphs (5), (6), and (8), respectively; 
(5) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following: 
‘‘(4) to improve research efforts related to 
improving tsunami detection, forecasting, 
warnings, notification, mitigation, resiliency, 
response, outreach, and recovery;’’; 

(6) in paragraph (5), as redesignated— 
(A) by striking ‘‘and increase’’ and inserting 
‘‘, increase, and develop uniform standards 
and guidelines for’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘, including the warning 
signs of locally generated tsunami’’ after 
‘‘approaching’’; 
(7) in paragraph (6), as redesignated, by 
striking ‘‘, including the Indian Ocean; and’’ 
and inserting a semicolon; and 
(8) by inserting after paragraph (6), as re-
designated, the following: 
‘‘(7) to foster resilient communities in the 
face of tsunami and other similar coastal 
hazards; and’’. 

SEC. l04. MODIFICATION OF TSUNAMI FORECASTING 
AND WARNING PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section 
4 (33 U.S.C. 3203(a)) is amended by striking 
‘‘Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean Sea, and Gulf of 
Mexico region’’ and inserting ‘‘Atlantic 

S6676 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

Ocean region, including the Caribbean Sea 
and the Gulf of Mexico’’. 

(b) COMPONENTS.—Subsection (b) of section 
4 (33 U.S.C. 3203(b)) is amended— 
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘established’’ 
and inserting ‘‘supported or maintained’’; 
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through 
(9) as paragraphs (8) through (10), respectively; 
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through 
(6) as paragraphs (3) through (7), respectively; 
(4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following: 
‘‘(2) to the degree practicable, maintain 
not less than 80 percent of the Deep-ocean 
Assessment and Reporting of Tsunamis buoy 
array at operational capacity to optimize 
data reliability;’’. 

(5) by amending paragraph (5), as redesignated 
by paragraph (3), to read as follows: 
‘‘(5) provide tsunami forecasting capability 
based on models and measurements, including 
tsunami inundation models and maps for 
use in increasing the preparedness of communities 
and safeguarding port and harbor 
operations, that incorporate inputs, including— 


‘‘(A) the United States and global ocean 
and coastal observing system; 

‘‘(B) the global Earth observing system; 

‘‘(C) the global seismic network; 

‘‘(D) the Advanced National Seismic system; 


‘‘(E) tsunami model validation using historical 
and paleotsunami data; 

‘‘(F) digital elevation models and bathymetry; 
and 

‘‘(G) newly developing tsunami detection 
methodologies using satellites and airborne 
remote sensing;’’; 

(6) by amending paragraph (7), as redesignated 
by paragraph (3), to read as follows: 
‘‘(7) include a cooperative effort among the 
Administration, the United States Geological 
Survey, and the National Science Foundation 
under which the Director of the 
United States Geological Survey and the Director 
of the National Science Foundation 
shall— 

‘‘(A) provide rapid and reliable seismic information 
to the Administrator from international 
and domestic seismic networks; and 

‘‘(B) support seismic stations installed before 
the date of the enactment of the Tsunami 
Warning, Education, and Research Act 
of 2016 to supplement coverage in areas of 
sparse instrumentation;’’; 

(7) in paragraph (8), as redesignated by 
paragraph (2)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘, including graphical 
warning products,’’ after ‘‘warnings’’; 
(B) by inserting ‘‘, territories,’’ after 
‘‘States’’; and 
(C) by inserting ‘‘and Wireless Emergency 
Alerts’’ after ‘‘Hazards Program’’; and 
(8) in paragraph (9), as redesignated by 
paragraph (2)— 
(A) by inserting ‘‘provide and’’ before 
‘‘allow’’; and 
(B) by inserting ‘‘and commercial and Federal 
undersea communications cables’’ after 
‘‘observing technologies’’. 
(c) TSUNAMI WARNING SYSTEM.—Subsection 
(c) of section 4 (33 U.S.C. 3203(c)) is amended 
to read as follows: 
‘‘(c) TSUNAMI WARNING SYSTEM.—The program 
under this section shall operate a tsunami 
warning system that— 

‘‘(1) is capable of forecasting tsunami, including 
forecasting tsunami arrival time and 
inundation estimates, anywhere in the Pacific 
and Arctic Ocean regions and providing 
adequate warnings; 

‘‘(2) is capable of forecasting and providing 
adequate warnings, including tsunami arrival 
time and inundation models where ap


plicable, in areas of the Atlantic Ocean, including 
the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico, 
that are determined— 

‘‘(A) to be geologically active, or to have 
significant potential for geological activity; 
and 

‘‘(B) to pose significant risks of tsunami 
for States along the coastal areas of the Atlantic 
Ocean, Caribbean Sea, or Gulf of Mexico; 
and 

‘‘(3) supports other international tsunami 
forecasting and warning efforts.’’. 

(d) TSUNAMI WARNING CENTERS.—Subsection 
(d) of section 4 (33 U.S.C. 3203(d)) is 
amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(d) TSUNAMI WARNING CENTERS.— 

‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall 
support or maintain centers to support the 
tsunami warning system required by subsection 
(c). The Centers shall include— 

‘‘(A) the National Tsunami Warning Center, 
located in Alaska, which is primarily responsible 
for Alaska and the continental 
United States; 

‘‘(B) the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center, 
located in Hawaii, which is primarily responsible 
for Hawaii, the Caribbean, and other 
areas of the Pacific not covered by the National 
Center; and 

‘‘(C) any additional forecast and warning 
centers determined by the National Weather 
Service to be necessary. 

‘‘(2) RESPONSIBILITIES.—The responsibilities 
of the centers supported or maintained 
under paragraph (1) shall include the following: 


‘‘(A) Continuously monitoring data from 
seismological, deep ocean, coastal sea level, 
and tidal monitoring stations and other data 
sources as may be developed and deployed. 

‘‘(B) Evaluating earthquakes, landslides, 
and volcanic eruptions that have the potential 
to generate tsunami. 

‘‘(C) Evaluating deep ocean buoy data and 
tidal monitoring stations for indications of 
tsunami resulting from earthquakes and 
other sources. 

‘‘(D) To the extent practicable, utilizing a 
range of models, including ensemble models, 
to predict tsunami, including arrival times, 
flooding estimates, coastal and harbor currents, 
and duration. 

‘‘(E) Using data from the Integrated Ocean 
Observing System of the Administration in 
coordination with regional associations to 
calculate new inundation estimates and periodically 
update existing inundation estimates. 


‘‘(F) Disseminating forecasts and tsunami 
warning bulletins to Federal, State, tribal, 
and local government officials and the public. 


‘‘(G) Coordinating with the tsunami hazard 
mitigation program conducted under section 
5 to ensure ongoing sharing of information 
between forecasters and emergency management 
officials. 

‘‘(H) In coordination with the Coast Guard, 
evaluating and recommending procedures for 
ports and harbors at risk of tsunami inundation, 
including review of readiness, response, 
and communication strategies, and data 
sharing policies, to the maximum extent 
practicable. 

‘‘(I) Making data gathered under this Act 
and post-warning analyses conducted by the 
National Weather Service or other relevant 
Administration offices available to the public. 


‘‘(J) Integrating and modernizing the program 
operated under this section with advances 
in tsunami science to improve performance 
without compromising service. 

‘‘(3) FAIL-SAFE WARNING CAPABILITY.—The 
tsunami warning centers supported or maintained 
under paragraph (1) shall maintain a 
fail-safe warning capability and perform 
back-up duties for each other. 

‘‘(4) COORDINATION WITH NATIONAL WEATHER 
SERVICE.—The Administrator shall coordinate 
with the forecast offices of the National 
Weather Service, the centers supported or 
maintained under paragraph (1), and such 
program offices of the Administration as the 
Administrator or the coordinating committee, 
as established in section 5(d), consider 
appropriate to ensure that regional and 
local forecast offices— 

‘‘(A) have the technical knowledge and capability 
to disseminate tsunami warnings for 
the communities they serve; 

‘‘(B) leverage connections with local emergency 
management officials for optimally 
disseminating tsunami warnings and forecasts; 
and 

‘‘(C) implement mass communication tools 
in effect on the day before the date of the enactment 
of the Tsunami Warning, Education, 
and Research Act of 2016 used by the National 
Weather Service on such date and 
newer mass communication technologies as 
they are developed as a part of the Weather-
Ready Nation program of the Administration, 
or otherwise, for the purpose of timely 
and effective delivery of tsunami warnings. 

‘‘(5) UNIFORM OPERATING PROCEDURES.—The 
Administrator shall— 

‘‘(A) develop uniform operational procedures 
for the centers supported or maintained 
under paragraph (1), including the use 
of software applications, checklists, decision 
support tools, and tsunami warning products 
that have been standardized across the program 
supported under this section; 

‘‘(B) ensure that processes and products of 
the warning system operated under subsection 
(c)— 

‘‘(i) reflect industry best practices when 
practicable; 

‘‘(ii) conform to the maximum extent practicable 
with internationally recognized 
standards for information technology; and 

‘‘(iii) conform to the maximum extent 
practicable with other warning products and 
practices of the National Weather Service; 

‘‘(C) ensure that future adjustments to 
operational protocols, processes, and warning 
products— 

‘‘(i) are made consistently across the warning 
system operated under subsection (c); 
and 

‘‘(ii) are applied in a uniform manner 
across such warning system; 

‘‘(D) establish a systematic method for information 
technology product development 
to improve long-term technology planning 
efforts; and 

‘‘(E) disseminate guidelines and metrics 
for evaluating and improving tsunami forecast 
models. 

‘‘(6) AVAILABLE RESOURCES.—The Administrator, 
through the National Weather Service, 
shall ensure that resources are available 
to fulfill the obligations of this Act. This includes 
ensuring supercomputing resources 
are available to run, as rapidly as possible, 
such computer models as are needed for purposes 
of the tsunami warning system operated 
under subsection (c).’’. 

(e) TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY; MAINTENANCE 
AND UPGRADES.—Subsection (e) of section 
4 (33 U.S.C. 3203(e)) is amended to read 
as follows: 
‘‘(e) TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY; MAINTENANCE 
AND UPGRADES.—In carrying out this 
section, the Administrator shall— 

‘‘(1) develop requirements for the equipment 
used to forecast tsunami, including— 

‘‘(A) provisions for multipurpose detection 
platforms; 

‘‘(B) reliability and performance metrics; 
and 

‘‘(C) to the maximum extent practicable, 
requirements for the integration of equipment 
with other United States and global 
ocean and coastal observation systems, the 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6677 

global Earth observing system of systems, 
the global seismic networks, and the Advanced 
National Seismic System; 

‘‘(2) develop and execute a plan for the 
transfer of technology from ongoing research 
conducted as part of the program supported 
or maintained under section 6 into the program 
under this section; and 

‘‘(3) ensure that the Administration’s operational 
tsunami detection equipment is 
properly maintained.’’. 

(f) FEDERAL COOPERATION.—Subsection (f) 
of section 4 (33 U.S.C. 3203(f)) is amended to 
read as follows: 
‘‘(f) FEDERAL COOPERATION.—When deploying 
and maintaining tsunami detection technologies 
under the program under this section, 
the Administrator shall— 

‘‘(1) identify which assets of other Federal 
agencies are necessary to support such program; 
and 

‘‘(2) work with each agency identified 
under paragraph (1)— 

‘‘(A) to acquire the agency’s assistance; 
and 

‘‘(B) to prioritize the necessary assets in 
support of the tsunami forecast and warning 
program.’’. 

(g) UNNECESSARY PROVISIONS.—Section 4 
(33 U.S.C. 3203) is further amended— 
(1) by striking subsection (g); 
(2) by striking subsections (i) through (k); 
and 
(3) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection 
(g). 
(h) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATIONS.—Subsection 
(g) of section 4 (33 U.S.C. 3203(g)), as 
redesignated by subsection (g)(3), is amended— 
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) 
as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, 
and moving such subparagraphs 2 ems to the 
right; 
(2) in the matter before subparagraph (A), 
as redesignated by paragraph (2), by striking 
‘‘The Administrator’’ and inserting the following: 
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator’’; 

(3) in paragraph (1), as redesignated by 
paragraph (3)— 
(A) in subparagraph (A), as redesignated by 
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; 
(B) in subparagraph (B), as redesignated by 
paragraph (2), by striking the period at the 
end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(C) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(C) the occurrence of a significant tsunami 
warning.’’; and 

(4) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—In a case in which notice 
is submitted under paragraph (1) within 30 
days of a significant tsunami warning described 
in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph, 
such notice shall include, as appropriate, 
brief information and analysis of— 

‘‘(A) the accuracy of the tsunami model 
used; 

‘‘(B) the specific deep ocean or other monitoring 
equipment that detected the incident, 
as well as the deep ocean or other monitoring 
equipment that did not detect the incident 
due to malfunction or other reasons; 

‘‘(C) the effectiveness of the warning communication, 
including the dissemination of 
warnings with State, territory, local, and 
tribal partners in the affected area under the 
jurisdiction of the National Weather Service; 
and 

‘‘(D) such other findings as the Administrator 
considers appropriate.’’. 

SEC. l05. MODIFICATION OF NATIONAL TSUNAMI 
HAZARD MITIGATION PROGRAM. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5(a) (33 U.S.C. 
3204(a)) is amended to read as follows: 
‘‘(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—The Administrator, 
in coordination with the Administrator 
of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency and the heads of such other 

agencies as the Administrator considers relevant, 
shall conduct a community-based tsunami 
hazard mitigation program to improve 
tsunami preparedness and resiliency of at-
risk areas in the United States and the territories 
of the United States.’’. 

(b) NATIONAL TSUNAMI HAZARD MITIGATION 
PROGRAM.—Section 5 (33 U.S.C. 3204) is 
amended by striking subsections (c) and (d) 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(c) PROGRAM COMPONENTS.—The Program 
conducted under subsection (a) shall include 
the following: 

‘‘(1) Technical and financial assistance to 
coastal States, territories, tribes, and local 
governments to develop and implement activities 
under this section. 

‘‘(2) Integration of tsunami preparedness 
and mitigation programs into ongoing State-
based hazard warning, resilience planning, 
and risk management activities, including 
predisaster planning, emergency response, 
evacuation planning, disaster recovery, hazard 
mitigation, and community development 
and redevelopment planning programs in affected 
areas. 

‘‘(3) Activities to promote the adoption of 
tsunami resilience, preparedness, warning, 
and mitigation measures by Federal, State, 
territorial, tribal, and local governments and 
nongovernmental entities, including educational 
and risk communication programs 
to discourage development in high-risk 
areas. 

‘‘(4) Activities to support the development 
of regional tsunami hazard and risk assessments. 
Such regional risk assessments may 
include the following: 

‘‘(A) The sources, sizes, and other relevant 
historical data of tsunami in the region, including 
paleotsunami data. 

‘‘(B) Inundation models and maps of critical 
infrastructure and socioeconomic vulnerability 
in areas subject to tsunami inundation. 


‘‘(C) Maps of evacuation areas and evacuation 
routes, including, when appropriate, 
traffic studies that evaluate the viability of 
evacuation routes. 

‘‘(D) Evaluations of the size of populations 
that will require evacuation, including populations 
with special evacuation needs. 

‘‘(E) Evaluations and technical assistance 
for vertical evacuation structure planning 
for communities where models indicate limited 
or no ability for timely evacuation, especially 
in areas at risk of near shore generated 
tsunami. 

‘‘(F) Evaluation of at-risk ports and harbors. 


‘‘(G) Evaluation of the effect of tsunami 
currents on the foundations of closely-
spaced, coastal high-rise structures. 

‘‘(5) Activities to promote preparedness in 
at-risk ports and harbors, including the following: 


‘‘(A) Evaluation and recommendation of 
procedures for ports and harbors in the event 
of a distant or near-field tsunami. 

‘‘(B) A review of readiness, response, and 
communication strategies to ensure coordination 
and data sharing with the Coast 
Guard. 

‘‘(6) Activities to support the development 
of community-based outreach and education 
programs to ensure community readiness 
and resilience, including the following: 

‘‘(A) The development, implementation, 
and assessment of technical training and 
public education programs, including education 
programs that address unique characteristics 
of distant and near-field tsunami. 

‘‘(B) The development of decision support 
tools. 

‘‘(C) The incorporation of social science research 
into community readiness and resilience 
efforts. 

‘‘(D) The development of evidence-based 
education guidelines. 

‘‘(7) Dissemination of guidelines and standards 
for community planning, education, and 
training products, programs, and tools, including— 


‘‘(A) standards for— 

‘‘(i) mapping products; 

‘‘(ii) inundation models; and 

‘‘(iii) effective emergency exercises; and 

‘‘(B) recommended guidance for at-risk 
port and harbor tsunami warning, evacuation, 
and response procedures in coordination 
with the Coast Guard. 

‘‘(d) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—In addition 
to activities conducted under subsection (c), 
the program conducted under subsection (a) 
may include the following: 

‘‘(1) Multidisciplinary vulnerability assessment 
research, education, and training to 
help integrate risk management and resilience 
objectives with community development 
planning and policies. 

‘‘(2) Risk management training for local 
officials and community organizations to enhance 
understanding and preparedness. 

‘‘(3) Interagency, Federal, State, tribal, 
and territorial intergovernmental tsunami 
response exercise planning and implementation 
in high risk areas. 

‘‘(4) Development of practical applications 
for existing or emerging technologies, such 
as modeling, remote sensing, geospatial 
technology, engineering, and observing systems, 
including the integration of tsunami 
sensors into Federal and commercial submarine 
telecommunication cables if practicable. 


‘‘(5) Risk management, risk assessment, 
and resilience data and information services, 
including— 

‘‘(A) access to data and products derived 
from observing and detection systems; and 

‘‘(B) development and maintenance of new 
integrated data products to support risk 
management, risk assessment, and resilience 
programs. 

‘‘(6) Risk notification systems that coordinate 
with and build upon existing systems 
and actively engage decisionmakers, State, 
local, tribal, and territorial governments and 
agencies, business communities, nongovernmental 
organizations, and the media. 

‘‘(e) NO PREEMPTION WITH RESPECT TO DESIGNATION 
OF AT-RISK AREAS.—The establishment 
of national standards for inundation 
models under this section shall not prevent 
States, territories, tribes, and local governments 
from designating additional areas as 
being at risk based on knowledge of local 
conditions. 

‘‘(f) NO NEW REGULATORY AUTHORITY.— 
Nothing in this Act may be construed as establishing 
new regulatory authority for any 
Federal agency.’’. 

(c) REPORT ON ACCREDITATION OF 
TSUNAMIREADY PROGRAM.—Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration shall submit 
to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
and the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology of the House of Representatives 
a report on which authorities and activities 
would be needed to have the TsunamiReady 
program of the National Weather Service accredited 
by the Emergency Management Accreditation 
Program. 
SEC. l06. MODIFICATION OF TSUNAMI RESEARCH 
PROGRAM. 

Section 6 (33 U.S.C. 3205) is amended— 

(1) in the matter before paragraph (1), by 
striking ‘‘The Administrator shall’’ and all 
that follows through ‘‘establish or maintain’’ 
and inserting the following: 
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator 
shall, in consultation with such other Federal 
agencies, State, tribal, and territorial 


S6678 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

governments, and academic institutions as 
the Administrator considers appropriate, the 
coordinating committee under section 5(d), 
and the panel under section 8(a), support or 
maintain’’; 

(2) in subsection (a), as designated by paragraph 
(1), by striking ‘‘and assessment for 
tsunami tracking and numerical forecast 
modeling. Such research program shall—’’ 
and inserting the following: ‘‘assessment for 
tsunami tracking and numerical forecast 
modeling, and standards development. 
‘‘(b) RESPONSIBILITIES.—The research program 
supported or maintained under subsection 
(a) shall—’’; and 

(3) in subsection (b), as designated by paragraph 
(2)— 
(A) by amending paragraph (1) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(1) consider other appropriate and cost effective 
solutions to mitigate the impact of 
tsunami, including the improvement of near-
field and distant tsunami detection and forecasting 
capabilities, which may include use 
of a new generation of the Deep-ocean Assessment 
and Reporting of Tsunamis array, 
integration of tsunami sensors into commercial 
and Federal telecommunications cables, 
and other real-time tsunami monitoring systems 
and supercomputer capacity of the Administration 
to develop a rapid tsunami 
forecast for all United States coastlines;’’; 

(B) in paragraph (3)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘include’’ and inserting 
‘‘conduct’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; 
(C) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph 
(5); 
(D) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following: 
‘‘(4) develop the technical basis for validation 
of tsunami maps, numerical tsunami 
models, digital elevation models, and forecasts; 
and’’; and 

(E) in paragraph (5), as redesignated by 
subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘to the scientific 
community’’ and inserting ‘‘to the 
public and the scientific community’’. 
SEC. l07. GLOBAL TSUNAMI WARNING AND MITIGATION 
NETWORK. 

Section 7 (33 U.S.C. 3206) is amended— 

(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as 
follows: 
‘‘(a) SUPPORT FOR DEVELOPMENT OF AN 
INTERNATIONAL TSUNAMI WARNING SYSTEM.— 
The Administrator shall, in coordination 
with the Secretary of State and in consultation 
with such other agencies as the Administrator 
considers relevant, provide technical 
assistance, operational support, and training 
to the Intergovernmental Oceanographic 
Commission of the United Nations Educational, 
Scientific, and Cultural Organization, 
the World Meteorological Organization 
of the United Nations, and such other international 
entities as the Administrator considers 
appropriate, as part of the international 
efforts to develop a fully functional 
global tsunami forecast and warning system 
comprised of regional tsunami warning networks.’’; 


(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘shall’’ 
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘may’’; 
and 
(3) in subsection (c)— 
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘establishing’’ 
and inserting ‘‘supporting’’; and 
(B) in paragraph (2)— 
(i) by striking ‘‘establish’’ and inserting 
‘‘support’’; and 
(ii) by striking ‘‘establishing’’ and inserting 
‘‘supporting’’. 
SEC. l08. TSUNAMI SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
ADVISORY PANEL. 

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Act is further amended— 
(1) by redesignating section 8 (33 U.S.C. 
3207) as section 9; and 
(2) by inserting after section 7 (33 U.S.C. 
3206) the following: 
‘‘SEC. 8. TSUNAMI SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
ADVISORY PANEL. 

‘‘(a) DESIGNATION.—The Administrator 
shall designate an existing working group 
within the Science Advisory Board of the Administration 
to serve as the Tsunami 
Science and Technology Advisory Panel to 
provide advice to the Administrator on matters 
regarding tsunami science, technology, 
and regional preparedness. 

‘‘(b) MEMBERSHIP.— 

‘‘(1) COMPOSITION.—The Panel shall be composed 
of no fewer than 7 members selected by 
the Administrator from among individuals 
from academia or State agencies who have 
academic or practical expertise in physical 
sciences, social sciences, information technology, 
coastal resilience, emergency management, 
or such other disciplines as the Administrator 
considers appropriate. 

‘‘(2) FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT.—No member of 
the Panel may be a Federal employee. 

‘‘(c) RESPONSIBILITIES.—Not less frequently 
than once every 4 years, the Panel shall— 

‘‘(1) review the activities of the Administration, 
and other Federal activities as appropriate, 
relating to tsunami research, detection, 
forecasting, warning, mitigation, resiliency, 
and preparation; and 

‘‘(2) submit to the Administrator and such 
others as the Administrator considers appropriate— 


‘‘(A) the findings of the working group 
with respect to the most recent review conducted 
under paragraph (1); and 

‘‘(B) such recommendations for legislative 
or administrative action as the working 
group considers appropriate to improve Federal 
tsunami research, detection, forecasting, 
warning, mitigation, resiliency, and 
preparation. 

‘‘(d) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—Not less frequently 
than once every 4 years, the Administrator 
shall submit to the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
the Senate, and the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives 
a report on the findings and recommendations 
received by the Administrator 
under subsection (c)(2).’’. 

SEC. l09. REPORTS. 

(a) REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF TSUNAMI 
WARNING AND EDUCATION ACT.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration shall submit to 
Congress a report on the implementation of 
the Tsunami Warning and Education Act (33 
U.S.C. 3201 et seq.). 
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by 
paragraph (1) shall include the following: 
(A) A detailed description of the progress 
made in implementing sections 4(d)(6), 
5(b)(6), and 6(b)(4) of the Tsunami Warning 
and Education Act. 
(B) A description of the ways that tsunami 
warnings and warning products issued by the 
Tsunami Forecasting and Warning Program 
established under section 4 of the Tsunami 
Warning and Education Act (33 U.S.C. 3203) 
can be standardized and streamlined with 
warnings and warning products for hurricanes, 
coastal storms, and other coastal 
flooding events. 
(b) REPORT ON NATIONAL EFFORTS THAT 
SUPPORT RAPID RESPONSE FOLLOWING NEAR-
SHORE TSUNAMI EVENTS.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall jointly, in coordination 
with the Director of the United States Geological 
Survey, Administrator of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency, the Chief 
of the National Guard Bureau, and the heads 
of such other Federal agencies as the Administrator 
considers appropriate, submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report 
on the national efforts in effect on the day 
before the date of the enactment of this Act 
that support and facilitate rapid emergency 
response following a domestic near-shore 
tsunami event to better understand domestic 
effects of earthquake derived tsunami on 
people, infrastructure, and communities in 
the United States. 

(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by 
paragraph (1) shall include the following: 
(A) A description of scientific or other 
measurements collected on the day before 
the date of the enactment of this Act to 
quickly identify and quantify lost or degraded 
infrastructure or terrestrial formations. 
(B) A description of scientific or other 
measurements that would be necessary to 
collect to quickly identify and quantify lost 
or degraded infrastructure or terrestrial formations. 
(C) Identification and evaluation of Federal, 
State, local, tribal, territorial, and 
military first responder and search and rescue 
operation centers, bases, and other facilities 
as well as other critical response assets 
and infrastructure, including search and 
rescue aircraft, located within near-shore 
and distant tsunami inundation areas on the 
day before the date of the enactment of this 
Act. 
(D) An evaluation of near-shore tsunami 
response plans in areas described in subparagraph 
(C) in effect on the day before the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and how those 
response plans would be affected by the loss 
of search and rescue and first responder infrastructure 
described in such subparagraph. 
(E) A description of redevelopment plans 
and reports in effect on the day before the 
date of the enactment of this Act for communities 
in areas that are at high-risk for 
near-shore tsunami, as well identification of 
States or communities that do not have redevelopment 
plans. 
(F) Recommendations to enhance near-
shore tsunami preparedness and response 
plans, including recommended responder exercises, 
predisaster planning, and mitigation 
needs. 
(G) Such other data and analysis information 
as the Administrator and the Secretary 
of Homeland Security consider appropriate. 
(3) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—In this subsection, the term ‘‘appropriate 
committees of Congress’’ means— 
(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation and the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
of the Senate; and 
(B) the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology and the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives. 
SEC. l10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 

Section 9 of the Act, as redesignated by 
section 8(a)(1) of this Act, is amended— 

(1) in paragraph (4)(B), by striking ‘‘and’’ 
at the end; 
(2) in paragraph (5)(B), by striking the period 
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and 
(3) by adding at the end the following: 
‘‘(6) $25,800,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 
through 2021, of which— 
‘‘(A) not less than 27 percent of the amount 
appropriated for each fiscal year shall be for 
activities conducted at the State level under 
the tsunami hazard mitigation program 
under section 5; and 

‘‘(B) not less than 8 percent of the amount 
appropriated shall be for the tsunami research 
program under section 6.’’. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6679 

SEC. l11. OUTREACH RESPONSIBILITIES. 

The Administrator of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, in coordination 
with State and local emergency managers, 
shall develop and carry out formal 
outreach activities to improve tsunami education 
and awareness and foster the development 
of resilient communities. Outreach activities 
may include— 

(1) the development of outreach plans to 
ensure the close integration of tsunami 
warning centers supported or maintained 
under section 4(d) of the Tsunami Warning 
and Education Act (33 U.S.C. 3203(d)) with 
local Weather Forecast Offices of the National 
Weather Service and emergency managers; 
(2) working with appropriate local Weather 
Forecast Offices to ensure they have the 
technical knowledge and capability to disseminate 
tsunami warnings to the communities 
they serve; and 
(3) evaluating the effectiveness of warnings 
and of coordination with local Weather Forecast 
Offices after significant tsunami events. 
SEC. l12. REPEAL OF DUPLICATE PROVISIONS 
OF LAW. 

(a) REPEAL.—The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation and Management Reauthorization 
Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–479) is 
amended by striking title VIII (relating to 
tsunami warning and education). 
(b) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to repeal, or affect in any 
way, Public Law 109–424. 
f 

AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO 
MEET 

Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 
five requests for committees to meet 
during today’s session of the Senate. 
They have the approval of the Majority 
and Minority leaders. 

Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the following committees are authorized 
to meet during today’s session 
of the Senate: 

COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES 
The Committee on Armed Services is authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on December 1, 2016, at 9:30 a.m. 
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE 
The Committee on Finance is authorized 

to meet during the session of the Senate on 
December 1, 2016, at 1:45 p.m., in room S–216. 
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

The Committee on Foreign Relations is authorized 
to meet during the session of the 
Senate on December 1, 2016, at 10:30 a.m., to 
conduct a hearing entitled ‘‘The Future of 

Counter-Terrorism Strategy.’’ 
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE 
The Select Committee on Intelligence is 
authorized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on December 1, 2016, at 2 p.m., in 
room SH–219 of the Hart Senate Office Building. 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON REGULATORY AFFAIRS AND 
FEDERAL MANAGEMENT 
The Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs 
and Federal Management of the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
is authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on December 1, 2016, at 2:30 
p.m., to conduct a hearing entitled, ‘‘Examining 
Two GAO Reports regarding the Renewable 
Fuel Standard.’’ 

f 

PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR 
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent my intern, Jill 

Goatcher, be given the privileges of the 
floor for the balance of the day. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

JUSTICE FOR ALL 
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2016 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
that the Chair lay before the Senate 
the message from the House to accompany 
S. 2577. 

The Presiding Officer laid before the 
Senate the following message from the 
House of Representatives: 

Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S. 
2577) entitled ‘‘An Act to protect crime victims’ 
rights, to eliminate the substantial 
backlog of DNA and other forensic evidence 
samples to improve and expand the forensic 
science testing capacity of Federal, State, 
and local crime laboratories, to increase research 
and development of new testing technologies, 
to develop new training programs 
regarding the collection and use of forensic 
evidence, to provide post-conviction testing 
of DNA evidence to exonerate the innocent, 
to support accreditation efforts of forensic 
science laboratories and medical examiner 
offices, to address training and equipment 
needs, to improve the performance of counsel 
in State capital cases, and for other purposes.’’, 
do pass with an amendment. 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I 
move to concur in the House amendment; 
and I ask unanimous consent 
that the motion be agreed to and the 
motion to reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table without 
intervening action or debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

METROPOLITAN WEATHER HAZARDS 
PROTECTION ACT OF 2015 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of Calendar No. 629, S. 2058. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the bill by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (S. 2058) to require the Secretary of 
Commerce to maintain and operate at least 
one Doppler weather radar site within 55 
miles of each city in the United States that 
has a population of more than 700,000 individuals, 
and for other purposes. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill, which 
had been reported from the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, 
with an amendment to strike 
all after the enacting clause and insert 
in lieu thereof the following: 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. 

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Metropolitan 
Weather Hazards Protection Act of 2015’’. 

SEC. 2. STUDY ON GAPS IN NEXRAD COVERAGE 

AND REQUIREMENT FOR PLAN TO 

ADDRESS SUCH GAPS. 

(a) STUDY ON GAPS IN NEXRAD COVERAGE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of Commerce shall complete a study on 
gaps in the coverage of the Next Generation 
Weather Radar of the National Weather Service 
(known as ‘‘NEXRAD’’). 
(2) ELEMENTS.—Under the study required by 
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall— 
(A) identify areas in the United States with 
limited or no Next Generation Weather Radar 
coverage below 6,000 feet above ground level of 
the surrounding terrain; 
(B) for the areas identified under subparagraph 
(A), Charlotte, North Carolina, and surrounding 
counties, central Washington State, 
northwest New Mexico, and Columbus, Ohio, 
and surrounding counties— 
(i) identify the key weather effects for which 
prediction would improve with improved radar 
detection; 
(ii) identify additional sources of observations 
for high impact weather that were available and 
operational for such areas on the day before the 
date of the enactment of this Act, including Terminal 
Doppler Weather Radar (known as 
‘‘TDWR’’), air surveillance radars of the Federal 
Aviation Administration, and cooperative 
network observers; and 
(iii) assess the feasibility and advisability of 
efforts to integrate and upgrade Federal radar 
capabilities in such areas that are not owned or 
controlled by of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, including radar capabilities 
of the Federal Aviation Administration 
and the Department of Defense; 
(C) assess the feasibility and advisability of 
incorporating State-operated and other non-
Federal radars into the operations of the National 
Weather Service; 
(D) identify options to improve radar coverage 
in the areas identified under subparagraph (A); 
and 
(E) estimate the cost of, and develop a 
timeline for, carrying out each of the options 
identified under subparagraph (D). 
(3) REPORT.—Upon the completion of the 
study required by paragraph (1), the Secretary 
shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate and 
the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
of the House of Representatives a report 
on the findings of the Secretary with respect to 
the study. 
(b) PLAN TO IMPROVE RADAR COVERAGE.—Not 
later than 30 days after the completion of the 
study required by subsection (a)(1), the Secretary 
shall develop and submit to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate and the Committee on 
Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
Representatives a plan to improve radar coverage 
in the areas identified under subsection 
(a)(2)(A) by integrating, and upgrading where 
practicable, additional observation solutions to 
improve hazardous weather detection and forecasting. 
(c) REQUIREMENT FOR THIRD-PARTY REVIEWS 
REGARDING PLAN TO IMPROVE RADAR COVERAGE.—
The Secretary shall seek third-party reviews 
on scientific methodology relating to, and 
the feasibility and advisability of, implementing 
the plan developed and submitted under subsection 
(b), including the extent to which warning 
and forecast services of the National Weather 
Service would be improved by additional Next 
Generation Weather Radar coverage. 
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the committee-
reported substitute amendment 
be withdrawn, the Burr substitute 
amendment be agreed to, the bill, as 
amended, be considered read a third 
time and passed, the title amendment 
be agreed to, and the motions to reconsider 
be considered made and laid upon 
the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The committee-reported amendment 
in the nature of a substitute was withdrawn. 


The amendment (No. 5123) in the nature 
of a substitute was agreed to, as 
follows: 


S6680 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE December 1, 2016 

(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute) 
Strike all after the enacting clause and insert 
the following: 

SEC. ll. STUDY ON GAPS IN NEXRAD COVERAGE 
AND REQUIREMENT FOR PLAN TO 
ADDRESS SUCH GAPS. 

(a) STUDY ON GAPS IN NEXRAD COVERAGE.— 
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Commerce shall complete a 
study on gaps in the coverage of the Next 
Generation Weather Radar of the National 
Weather Service (referred to in this section 
as ‘‘NEXRAD’’). 
(2) ELEMENTS.—In conducting the study required 
under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
shall— 
(A) identify areas in the United States 
with limited or no NEXRAD coverage below 
6,000 feet above ground level of the surrounding 
terrain; 
(B) for the areas identified under subparagraph 
(A)— 
(i) identify the key weather effects for 
which prediction would improve with improved 
radar detection; 
(ii) identify additional sources of observations 
for high impact weather that were 
available and operational for such areas on 
the day before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, including Terminal Doppler Weather 
Radar (commonly known as ‘‘TDWR’’), air 
surveillance radars of the Federal Aviation 
Administration, and cooperative network observers; 
and 
(iii) assess the feasibility and advisability 
of efforts to integrate and upgrade Federal 
radar capabilities that are not owned or controlled 
by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, including radar capabilities 
of the Federal Aviation Administration 
and the Department of Defense; 
(C) assess the feasibility and advisability 
of incorporating State-operated and other 
non-Federal radars into the operations of the 
National Weather Service; 
(D) identify options to improve radar coverage 
in the areas identified under subparagraph 
(A); and 
(E) estimate the cost of, and develop a 
timeline for, carrying out each of the options 
identified under subparagraph (D). 
(3) REPORT.—Upon the completion of the 
study required under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
shall submit a report to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations 
of the Senate, the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology of the 
House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives that includes the findings of 
the Secretary with respect to the study. 
(b) PLAN TO IMPROVE RADAR COVERAGE.— 
Not later than 30 days after the completion 
of the study under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary 
of Commerce shall submit a plan to 
the congressional committees referred to in 
subsection (a)(3) for improving radar coverage 
in the areas identified under subsection 
(a)(2)(A) by integrating and upgrading, 
to the extent practicable, additional observation 
solutions to improve hazardous 
weather detection and forecasting. 
(c) REQUIREMENT FOR THIRD-PARTY REVIEWS 
REGARDING PLAN TO IMPROVE RADAR COVERAGE.—
The Secretary of Commerce shall 
seek third-party reviews on scientific methodology 
relating to, and the feasibility and 
advisability of, implementing the plan submitted 
under subsection (b), including the 
extent to which warning and forecast services 
of the National Weather Service would 
be improved by additional NEXRAD coverage. 
The bill (S. 2058), as amended, was ordered 
to be engrossed for a third read


ing, was read the third time, and 
passed. 
The amendment (No. 5124) was agreed 
to, as follows: 
(Purpose: To amend the title) 
Amend the title so as to read: ‘‘A bill to require 
the Secretary of Commerce to study 
the coverage gaps of the Next Generation 
Weather Radar of the National Weather 
Service and to develop a plan for improving 
radar coverage and hazardous weather detection 
and forecasting.’’. 

f 

ALLOWING THE ADMINISTRATOR 
OF THE FAA TO ENTER INTO REIMBURSABLE 
AGREEMENTS FOR 
CERTAIN AIRPORT PROJECTS 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation be discharged from further 
consideration of H.R. 6014 and the 
Senate proceed to its immediate consideration. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The clerk will report the bill by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 6014) to allow the Administrator 
of the Federal Aviation Administration 
to enter into reimbursable agreements 
for certain airport projects. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the bill be 
considered read a third time and passed 
and the motion to reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The bill (H.R. 6014) was ordered to a 
third reading, was read the third time, 
and passed. 

f 

WEATHER RESEARCH AND FORE


CASTING INNOVATION ACT OF 

2015 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation be discharged from further 
consideration of H.R. 1561 and the 
Senate proceed to its immediate consideration. 


The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The clerk will report the bill by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (H.R. 1561) to improve the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s 
weather research through a focused program 
of investment on affordable and attainable 
advances in observational, computing, and 
modeling capabilities to support substantial 
improvement in weather forecasting and prediction 
of high impact weather events, to expand 
commercial opportunities for the provision 
of weather data, and for other purposes. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Thune 
substitute amendment at the desk be 
considered, the Cantwell amendment 
at the desk be considered and agreed 
to, the Thune substitute amendment, 

as amended, be agreed to, the bill, as 
amended, be considered read a third 
time and passed, and the motion to reconsider 
be considered made and laid 
upon the table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The amendment (No. 5126) was agreed 
to. 

(The amendment is printed in today’s 
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’) 

The amendment (No. 5125) in the nature 
of a substitute, as amended, was 
agreed to. 

(The amendment is printed in today’s 
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’) 

The amendment was ordered to be 
engrossed and the bill to be read a 
third time. 

The bill was read the third time. 

The bill (H.R. 1561), as amended, was 
passed. 

f 

HONORING THE MEMORIES AND 
LEGACIES OF THE 3 LAW ENFORCEMENT 
OFFICERS WHO 
LOST THEIR LIVES IN THE ATTACK 
ON JULY 17, 2016, IN BATON 
ROUGE, LOUISIANA 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Judiciary 
Committee be discharged from further 
consideration of and the Senate now 
proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 
606. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The clerk will report the resolution 
by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 606) honoring the 
memories and legacies of the 3 law enforcement 
officers who lost their lives in the attack 
on July 17, 2016, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, 
condemning that attack, and recognizing 
the heroism of law enforcement personnel 
and first responders. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the resolution 
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed 
to, and the motions to reconsider be 
considered made and laid upon the 
table. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The resolution (S. Res. 606) was 
agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

(The resolution, with its preamble, is 
printed in the RECORD of September 29, 
2016, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’) 

f 

COLONEL DEMAS T. CRAW VA 
CLINIC 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consideration 
of S. 3492, introduced earlier 
today. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the bill by title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A bill (S. 3492) to designate the Traverse 
City VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6681 

of the Department of Veterans Affairs in 
Traverse City, Michigan, as the ‘‘Colonel 
Demas T. Craw VA Clinic.’’ 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the bill. 

Mr. SULLIVAN. I ask unanimous 
consent that the bill be read a third 
time and passed and the motion to reconsider 
be considered made and laid 
upon the table with no intervening action 
or debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The bill (S. 3492) was ordered to be 
engrossed for a third reading, was read 
the third time, and passed, as follows: 

S. 3492 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 

SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF COLONEL DEMAS T. 

CRAW VA CLINIC IN TRAVERSE CITY, 

MICHIGAN. 

(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the following: 
(1) Demas T. Craw was born on April 9, 
1900, in Long Lake Township, Michigan. 
(2) While residing in Traverse City, Michigan, 
Demas T. Craw enlisted in the United 
States Army at Columbus Barracks, Ohio, on 
April 18, 1918, and trained with the 12th Cavalry 
at Camp Stanley, Texas. 
(3) Colonel Craw achieved the position of 
senior pilot and was awarded— 
(A) the Medal of Honor for action in North 
Africa; 
(B) the World War I Victory Medal; 
(C) the World War II Victory Medal; 
(D) the European-African-Middle Eastern 
Campaign Medal; 
(E) the Mexican Service Medal; 
(F) the American Defense Service Medal; 
(G) the Purple Heart; 
(H) the Royal Order of George I; and 
(I) the Observer Badge. 
(4) Colonel Craw’s citation for the Medal of 
Honor said, ‘‘For conspicuous gallantry and 
intrepidity in action above and beyond the 
call of duty. On November 8, 1942, near Port 
Lyautey, French Morocco, Col. Craw volunteered 
to accompany the leading wave of assault 
boats to the shore and pass through the 
enemy lines to locate the French commander 
with a view to suspending hostilities. This 
request was first refused as being too dangerous 
but upon the officer’s insistence that 
he was qualified to undertake and accomplish 
the mission he was allowed to go. Encountering 
heavy fire while in the landing 
boat and unable to dock in the river because 
of shell fire from shore batteries, Col. Craw, 
accompanied by 1 officer and 1 soldier, succeeded 
in landing on the beach at Mehdia 
Plage under constant low-level strafing from 
3 enemy planes. Riding in a bantam truck toward 
French headquarters, progress of the 
party was hindered by fire from our own 
naval guns. Nearing Port Lyautey, Col. Craw 
was instantly killed by a sustained burst of 
machinegun fire at pointblank range from a 
concealed position near the road.’’. 

(5) Colonel Craw was killed in action on 
November 8, 1942, while attempting to deliver 
a message to broker a cease fire with 
France. 
(b) DESIGNATION.—The Traverse City VA 
Community-Based Outpatient Clinic of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs in Traverse 
City, Michigan, shall after the date of the 
enactment of this Act be known and designated 
as the ‘‘Colonel Demas T. Craw VA 
Clinic’’. 
(c) REFERENCE.—Any reference in any law, 
regulation, map, document, paper, or other 
record of the United States to the community-
based outpatient clinic referred to in 
subsection (b) shall be considered to be a reference 
to the Colonel Demas T. Craw VA 
Clinic. 
f 

NATIONAL PHENYLKETONURIA 
AWARENESS DAY 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 
627, submitted earlier today. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 627) designating December 
3, 2016, as ‘‘National Phenylketonuria 
Awareness Day.’’ 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. SULLIVAN. I ask unanimous 
consent that the resolution be agreed 
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the 
motions to reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table with no 
intervening action or debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The resolution (S. Res. 627) was 
agreed to. 

The preamble was agreed to. 

(The resolution, with its preamble, is 
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Submitted 
Resolutions.’’) 

f 

AUTHORIZING THE PRINTING OF A 

REVISED EDITION OF THE SEN


ATE RULES AND MANUAL 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of S. Res. 
628, submitted earlier today. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will report the resolution by 
title. 

The legislative clerk read as follows: 

A resolution (S. Res. 628) authorizing the 
printing of a revised edition of the Senate 
Rules and Manual. 

There being no objection, the Senate 
proceeded to consider the resolution. 

Mr. SULLIVAN. I ask unanimous 
consent that the resolution be agreed 
to and the motion to reconsider be considered 
made and laid upon the table 
with no intervening action or debate. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

The resolution (S. Res. 628) was 
agreed to. 

(The resolution is printed in today’s 

RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’) 
f 

ORDERS FOR MONDAY, DECEMBER 
5, 2016 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that when the Senate 
completes its business today, it adjourn 
until 3 p.m. on Monday, December 
5; that following the prayer and 
pledge, the morning hour be deemed 
expired, the Journal of proceedings be 
approved to date, and the time for the 
two leaders be reserved for their use 
later in the day; further, that following 
leader remarks, the Senate resume 
consideration of the House message to 
accompany H.R. 34; further, that the 
filing deadline for first-degree amendments 
under rule XXII for the cloture 
motion filed during today’s session be 4 
p.m., Monday, December 5; finally, that 
the mandatory quorum call under rule 
XXII with respect to the cloture motion 
be waived. 

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 

f 

ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY, 
DECEMBER 5, 2016, AT 3 P.M. 

Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, if 
there is no further business to come before 
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent 
that it stand adjourned under the 
previous order. 

There being no objection, the Senate, 
at 6:07 p.m., adjourned until Monday, 
December 5, 2016, at 3 p.m. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1557 

EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS 

REAFFIRMING LONGSTANDING 
UNITED STATES POLICY IN SUPPORT 
OF A DIRECT BILATERALLY 
NEGOTIATED SETTLEMENT 
OF THE ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN 
CONFLICT 

SPEECH OF 

HON. GWEN MOORE 

OF WISCONSIN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Tuesday, November 29, 2016 

Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking 
member and chairman for their hard work 
in crafting this resolution. It reiterates a number 
of points consistent with longstanding U.S. 
policy on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, including 
the current Administration, that I support. It 
is still to be seen what this policy will look like 
under the new Administration. 

No one disputes the need for the parties to 
directly work out the issues. I articulated that 
position in a letter I sent to President Obama 
when he took office in 2009. I reaffirmed that 
position again in a letter to the President 
about a year ago. I continue to support that 
position. 

Additionally, no one disputes the need to 
oppose unilateral actions by either party that 
undermines the process. As Vice President 
BIDEN noted earlier this year, ‘‘Actions on either 
side to undermine trust only take us further 
away from the path of peace. Actions like 
at the U.N. to undermine Israel, or . . . settlement 
activities.’’ Such actions clearly erode 
the prospect of a two-state solution, the stated 
goal for U.S. policy and efforts for a number 
of years now. 

However, I believe that this resolution we 
are debating is incomplete. 

For example, this resolution should not be 
mischaracterized or misrepresented as opposing 
constructive steps by the United States, either 
unilaterally or with the international community, 
to help preserve and further a negotiated 
two-state solution between the Israelis 
and Palestinians. 

While no effort can replace the parties 
themselves reaching agreement, there are a 
host of ways in which the U.S. and other 
stakeholders in the international communities, 
like Arab countries in the region, with a vital 
interest in peace can support steps to rebuild 
trust and good will, both of which are sorely 
lacking and will be needed. It must be made 
clear that Congress is not discouraging such 
efforts through this or any other resolution. 

The framework for a resolution to the conflict 
has long been clear for a number of years 
and formulated a number of times, including 
President Clinton and President George W. 
Bush. No U.N. resolution is needed for that. 

The issue isn’t whether we know where the 
major issues of disagreement lie, but how to 
create an environment that encourages the 
parties to move forward. The U.S. and international 
support can be helpful and useful to 
building that environment. It would be foolhardy 
to hope that somehow the Israelis and 

Palestinians spontaneously decide to stop 
pointing fingers and come together and find 
solutions to some very tough and challenging 
issues. 

The challenges to peace at the moment are 
tremendous which is why it is important that 
we should encourage all interested in peace to 
continue to work for it. 

Even Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu recently 
expressed appreciation for and a willingness 
to build on multilateral and regional 
efforts regarding the conflict between the 
Israelis and Palestinians, such as the Arab 
Peace Initiative. 

At the end of his Administration, President 
George W. Bush held a conference at Annapolis 
where he hosted the leaders of Israel and 
the Palestinian Authority, but also other ‘‘nations 
that support a two-state solution, reject 
violence, recognize Israel’s right to exist, and 
commit to all previous agreements between 
the parties.’’ President Bush also noted that 
‘‘the world can do more to build the conditions 
for peace’’ between the two parties. The U.S. 
invited 49 countries and international organizations 
to participate including Members of the 
Arab League, Permanent Members of the U.N. 
Security Council, and the International Quartet 
for Middle East Peace. 

In 2007, President George W. Bush argued 
for the international community to ‘‘rise to the 
moment, and provide decisive support to responsible 
Palestinian leaders working for 
peace’’ and laid out one role for the international 
community—helping create viable 
Palestinian institutions necessary for a state. 

Former Senator and head of the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee, Richard Lugar 
repeatedly noted that ‘‘Both Israel and the Palestinians 
urgently need international support to 
fortify their ability and willingness to embrace 
the difficult choices that will be necessary’’ to 
reach a peace deal. 

While the world has changed much since 
that time, the need for the international community 
to do more to ‘‘build conditions for 
peace’’ between the two parties has not diminished. 


Yet, I am concerned that some may read H. 
Con. Res. 165 as dismissing all efforts by the 

U.S. to engage the international community to 
galvanize broad support for meaningful efforts 
to move the parties towards peace. 
I also want to emphasize that no one should 
read this resolution as preventing the U.S. 
from supporting non-binding efforts through 
the U.N. Security Council to further progress 
toward a negotiated, conflict-ending agreement. 
This has long been a part of the U.S. 
Middle East Peace toolbox. 

The U.S. was instrumental in drafting and 
passing UNSC Resolutions 242 (in 1967) and 
338 (in 1973) outlining the international community’s 
desire for a peaceful resolution to the 
Arab-Israeli conflict through territorial compromise. 
Democratic and Republican Presidents 
alike have previously worked through 
the U.N. Security Council to promote peace. 

Under President Reagan, the United States 
did not veto U.N. Security Council Resolutions 

criticizing Israel’s annexation of the Golan 
Heights and its activities in the occupied Palestinian 
territories. 

I believe that such efforts remain a viable 
tool today. 

That doesn’t mean the U.S. has to support 
efforts it believes are contrary to peace. It has 
long been U.S. policy to denounce actions by 
any party—Israel, the Palestinians, or international 
actors—that are unwelcomed. This includes 
opposition to actions by the United Nations—
or any other entity—to pass resolutions 
that are one-sided or anti-Israel. And the 
Obama Administration has done so when 
needed. 

Additionally, I believe the resolution would 
have been strengthened by strongly emphasizing 
that there is no workable alternative to 
the two-state solution which has been the 
focus of U.S. peacemaking efforts for years 
now. 

Lastly, I continue to support the current Administration’s 
push for peace between our allies 
and to urge it to continue to do so even 
in its waning days. I also urge the incoming 
Administration to work constructively towards 
a two-state solution. In a recent poll, 69 percent 
of American Jewish voters expressed 
support for President Barack Obama delivering 
a major speech before leaving office outlining 
a vision for what Israelis and Palestinians 
must do to reach a peace agreement. 

There is plenty of blame to apportion for 
why the status quo of violence, instability, and 
conflict continues unabated. 

We owe it to every Israeli and Palestinian 
who share a vision of two peoples living side 
by side in peace and security to never quit on 
working toward a meaningful peace and that 
should include pursuing every tool and 
leveraging every ally in that pursuit. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO DAVID JOHNSON, CO-

FOUNDER OF POLARIS INDUS


TRIES 

HON. COLLIN C. PETERSON 

OF MINNESOTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. PETERSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to pay tribute to a visionary business man 
from my district, David Johnson. He co-
foundered Polaris Industries and designed its 
first snowmobile. 

While Mr. Johnson was in the Navy he invested 
half of his paycheck . . . just $11 after 
he received a letter from his friend asking for 
help. When he returned home after his military 
service Mr. Johnson went to work for the company. 


The company he helped found reached its 
first billion-dollar sales year in 1995. It now 
generates over $4 billion in sales yearly and 
has a major impact on the local economy. 

Despite retiring in 1988, Mr Johnson was a 
regular fixture at the company’s Roseau, Minnesota 
plant, which is in my district. He would 

S This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor. 
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor. 


E1558 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2016 

check in on the newer models the company 
was producing and he would also give tours 
and share stories about company history. 

Mr. Johnson was a lifelong snowmobile 
rider. For his 90th birthday, he took a three-
day 150 mile ride aboard a Polaris snowmobile 
from Roseau to his old cabin in the 
Northwest angle. 

Mr. Johnson was inducted into the snowmobile 
Hall of Fame in 1999. Mr. Johnson 
died in his Roseau MN home after a long illness. 
He was 93 years old. 

David Johnson is survived by his wife of 68 
years, Eleanor, and their children, Rodney, 
Mary, Mitchell, and Aaron. All Polaris employees 
were honorary pallbearers for his funeral 
service. 

It was my sincere pleasure to know David 
Johnson and to work with him. 

I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing 
the life and achievements of David 
Johnson. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO STAFF SERGEANT 
CLAYTON E. MONEYMAKER 

HON. MO BROOKS 

OF ALABAMA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to recognize the life and military 
service of Staff Sergeant Clayton E. Moneymaker, 
who, after service in the U.S. Army 
during World War II, dedicated 41 years of his 
life to the service of veterans in the Huntsville-
Madison County community and the State of 
Alabama. 

Clayton Eugene Moneymaker was born on 
January 1, 1918 in Heysworth, Illinois to Mr. 
and Mrs. Lee Moneymaker. On August 10, 
1943, at 25 years old, Clayton joined the U.S. 
Army and officially entered active military service 
on August 31, 1943. Clayton served honorably, 
and on January 8, 1946, separated from 
the Army having attained the rank of Staff Sergeant. 


In 1981, Clayton mortgaged his home to 
complete the purchase, construction, and 
completion of the new home for the Huntsville-
Madison County American Legion Post 237. 

Clayton served his fellow veterans from 
1982 to 2011 in numerous positions including 
as the American Legion Department of Alabama 
Commander, the District 12 Commander, 
the Division 1 Commander, and twice 
he served as the American Legion Post 237 
Commander, spanning 19 years. 

In recognition of his dedication to veterans 
in our community, the American Legion Post 
237 membership, living heirs of Clayton, the 
American Legion Department of Alabama, and 
the National Headquarters of the American Legion 
all agreed to rename the Huntsville-Madison 
County American Legion Post 237 as the 
Clayton E. Moneymaker American Legion Post 
237. 

Clayton Eugene Moneymaker dedicated 41 
years of his life to serving veterans in the 
Huntsville-Madison County community and the 
State of Alabama. 

Today I pay tribute to an extraordinary individual, 
Clayton E. Moneymaker, and express 
my sincere gratitude for his life of committed 
service to the veterans of Alabama. 

HONORING THE 10TH ANNIVERSARY 
OF GRACE HEALTH CLINIC 
AND THE LEADERSHIP OF DR. 
RANDY HICKLE 

HON. RANDY NEUGEBAUER 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. NEUGEBAUER. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize the 10th anniversary of 
Grace Health Clinic in Lubbock, Texas. I 
would also like to honor Grace Health Clinic’s 
founder and CEO, Dr. Randy Hickle, and recognize 
his commitment to providing quality, 
service and value to the countless families 
throughout the South Plains. 

To appreciate this accomplishment, one 
must understand the humble beginnings from 
which Grace Health Clinic came. 

Dr. Hickle founded Grace Clinic in 2006 with 
just eight doctors on staff. Under his guidance, 
Grace Health Clinic has transformed into 
Grace Health System, growing to more than 
50 doctors and specialists and expanding its 
operations to better serve their patients’ 
needs. 

The award-winning clinic is the only locally 
owned, doctor-operated health facility in the 
region. Thanks to the tireless efforts of Dr. 
Hickle, Grace Health Clinic has been able to 
grow without losing its focus on patients and 
their healthcare needs. 

Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize a 
clinic that has contributed so much to our 
community. It is my pleasure to take this opportunity 
and praise the vision that Dr. Hickle 
had when he founded this clinic 10 years ago 
and the leadership he has exhibited throughout 
this journey. 

f 

RECOGNIZING MR. WILLIAM 
‘‘BILL’’ HALD 

HON. DOUG LaMALFA 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I would like to 
recognize Mr. William ‘‘Bill’’ Hald of Grass Valley, 
California, an artist and a veteran from the 
North State. 

Bill served in the United States Navy from 
1967 through 1973. After graduating 2nd in his 
class, he served as a computer fire control 
missile technician aboard the USS Ramsey, a 
Brooke-class destroyer escort for the USS 
Hancock aircraft carrier in the Western Pacific. 
Mr. Hald was one of the six crewmembers required 
to use the Ramsey’s Tartar Missile 
System—but during his first tour he was the 
sole technician able to use the system’s analog 
computer, resulting in long days and 
nights. Throughout his tour in the Western Pacific, 
the USS Ramsey earned 5 Battle Stars 
in addition to a number of citations and campaign 
ribbons. After his service, Bill returned 
to the North State and began to sculpt, sometimes 
using patriotic symbols, such as the bald 
eagle. 

Bill’s wife Camille placed one of his sculptures, 
We The People, up for the 2016 National 
Veterans Administration Creative Arts 
Competition. This annual competition focuses 
on the use of the creative arts to assist in re


habilitative treatment for enrolled Veterans recovering 
from, and coping with physical and 
emotional disabilities. The competition has 51 
categories, including sculptures. We The People 
quickly gained recognition, placing first in 
local and regional competitions. On October 
16, 2016, at the National Veterans Creative 
Arts Festival in Jackson, Mississippi, We The 
People won first place in the sculpture category. 


We The People portrays a bald eagle 
perched atop four books: the Holy Bible, on 
top, followed by three books labelled Legislative, 
Executive and Judicial to represent the 
first three Articles of the Constitution of the 
United States. The right talon of the eagle is 
placed on the Holy Bible, while it stands ‘‘on 
the wall,’’ over the Constitution in a protective 
stance. In total, Bill spent over a year crafting 
the 100 pound pure bronze sculpture in his 
garage. There are 5,000 accurately 
handcrafted feathers on the piece. I am deeply 
grateful to Bill for his service in the United 
States Navy, but also for the incredible devotion 
and patriotism that he has shown to his 
country after his service ended. 

f 

HONORING THE LIFE OF THE HON


ORABLE GEORGE R. GROSSE OF 

JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA 

HON. ANDER CRENSHAW 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. CRENSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to honor the life of The Honorable George R. 
Grosse. We in Jacksonville, Florida, mourned 
Mr. Grosse’s passing after 86 years of life on 
June 3, 2016. 

Born in Jacksonville, Florida, in 1930, 
George dedicated his life to his faith, his family 
and his community. He graduated from 
Baldwin High School and was a lifelong resident 
of Jacksonville’s Westside. George became 
an accomplished businessman, a successful 
law enforcement official, and a public 
servant who enjoyed a reputation for honesty, 
fair dealings, and a strong Christian faith. He 
was a member of Westside Baptist Church 
where he served as a Deacon for more than 
25 years. 

George always held an entrepreneurial spirit, 
a strong work ethic, and the American 
Dream in his heart. He started a chicken farm 
and later became a journeyman carpenter. 
Then in 1957, George joined the Duval County 
Road Patrol as a Deputy Sheriff. In 1968, he 
was elected President of the Duval County 
Fraternal Order of Police Lodge Number 30. 
Then, when the city and the county consolidated, 
he was elected as the first President of 
the consolidated FOP Lodge Number 5–30 
and was selected as Officer of the Year for 
the Jacksonville Sheriff’s Office. He continued 
to serve as FOP President until he left JSO in 
1970 to devote his full attention to Gateway 
Concrete Contractors, Inc., a concrete business 
he founded and which he ultimately grew 
to be the largest concrete contractor of its day 
in Northeast Florida. 

In 1973, George was elected to the Florida 
House of Representatives for District 15. He 
represented West Duval County, as well as all 
of Baker, Nassau and Union counties for three 
terms. I had the privilege of serving with him 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1559 

in the State House for several years and considered 
him a valued friend and colleague. 
George resigned his seat in 1977, when President 
Jimmy Carter appointed him as the U.S. 
Marshall for the Middle District of Florida, a 
role he served in until 1982. Later he was appointed 
by Mayor Jake Godbold to the Jacksonville 
Electric Authority Board of Directors 
and was, subsequently, elected Board Chairman. 


George was a role model to many and a 
well-respected leader of our community. He 
was recognized on several occasions for his 
active role in the leadership of the Boy Scouts 
of America’s Great Northern District. In addition, 
he maintained an active role and presence 
in local politics his entire life. Each year, 
George and his wife Corene hosted a bar-be-
que at their farm in support of my candidacy 
for Congress. I was never sure if people came 
out to see me or George. He dedicated his life 
to the service of others and his generosity of 
spirit and warm affability endeared him to his 
family, his friends and his neighbors. I send 
my heartfelt condolences to his family and join 
with all of Jacksonville in mourning our loss. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask you to join me in celebrating 
the outstanding life of one of Florida’s 
and Jacksonville’s most outstanding citizens, 
The Honorable George R. Grosse. 

f 

REMEMBRANCE AND HOPE ON 
WORLD AIDS DAY 

HON. JAMES A. HIMES 

OF CONNECTICUT 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, today, December 
1, 2016, marks the 28th World AIDS Day—a 
day to come together in support of people 
around the world who live with HIV/AIDS, to 
remember those we’ve lost, and to commit 
ourselves to eradicating this vile disease once 
and for all. 

For me, this day conjures back a memory I 
have of visiting the Names Project AIDS Memorial 
Quilt on the National Mall on a sweltering 
day in Washington a few summers ago. 
Although I was sweating through my suit, it 
was impossible not to stand there without 
being profoundly moved. I was moved when I 
thought about the fathers, mothers, cousins, 
sisters, brothers, friends, and other loved ones 
whose lives were cut short by this wretched 
disease—many of whom had their stories memorialized 
on a panel of the AIDS quilt for the 
world to see. Stories like that of Ryan White, 
an Indiana teenager who was diagnosed with 
HIV in 1984 after receiving a contaminated 
blood treatment for Hemophilia. Just 13 years 
old, Ryan was barred from returning to school, 
cast asunder by a society that did not yet 
comprehend that the disease transmits independently 
of lifestyle. But he spent the rest of 
his young life advocating for understanding 
and against an unjust stigma, finally perishing 
far too young at 18. Countless stories like 
Ryan’s are a reminder that we must never forget 
how far we’ve come, and how far we have 
left to go. 

That said, we’ve made tremendous progress 
since the first World AIDS Day in 1988. So 
many people today are alive because of the 
investment, hard work, activism and commitment 
of those who fought for this progress, 

like Ryan—for housing, for prevention, for a 
fair shake for those who today live with this 
wretched disease. 

In Congress, I have worked with my colleagues 
on the Congressional HIV/AIDS caucus 
to support policies that promote research, 
prevention, and, most importantly, a cure. 
Through my work with these magnificent colleagues—
many of whom have been fighting 
this battle since long before I dreamed of running 
for Congress—I have resolved that we 
must fully fund programs that fight AIDS at 
home and abroad. Programs like the President’s 
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief 
(PEPFAR) and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis, and Malaria—both of which provide 
antiretroviral HIV treatments and 
screenings to millions of children and adults 
around the world. And the Housing Opportunities 
for Persons with AIDS—a program that allows 
Americans with AIDS to access subsidized, 
low-income housing. 

Today, our government has made stopping 
the proliferation of HIV/AIDS a priority, and the 
impact is real. Last year, the U.S. government 
spent $26.42 billion on HIV/AIDS treatment, 
prevention, and accommodations domestically, 
and $6.57 billion for international programs. 
Between 2005 and 2014, the annual total of 
new cases has fallen 19 percent largely due to 
increased screenings and prevention measures. 
Even still, the lifetime cost of treating an 
HIV infection is $379,000—a staggering 
amount considering that 30 percent of those 
living with the disease lack health insurance. 

I am especially pleased by news that the 
National Institutes of Health started a grant 
program in July of this year to fund research 
into a cure—$30 million per year over the next 
five years. amFAR, a non-profit research organization, 
has committed to investing $100 million 
to form the scientific basis for a cure by 
2020. 

The scientists tell us the moment is now. A 
cure is possible if we commit ourselves to it. 
As long as I am in Congress, I will fight to 
make the necessary resources available to 
eradicate HIV/AIDS and realize our shared 
dream of an AIDS-free generation. 

f 

IN HONOR OF DAVE POTTER 

HON. SAM FARR 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. FARR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Dave Potter, a model public servant on 
this memorable occasion of his retirement 
from the Monterey County Board of Supervisors. 
I have had the tremendous pleasure in 
working with Dave over the years and the 
great honor to call him a dear friend. 

Dave originally hails from Hingham, Massachusetts. 
In 1970, his van broke down on 
Highway 1 near Carmel and he just stayed 
and made the Monterey Peninsula his home. 
Starting in the early 70s, he built a general 
contracting business, Potter Construction. That 
work soon led him into the world of public policy 
as an appointee to the City of Monterey’s 
Architectural Review Committee and then 
Planning Commission and ultimately to an 
elected seat on the Monterey City Council. 

In 1996, Dave was elected to the Monterey 
County Board of Supervisors to represent the 

Fifth District, the same supervisorial district I 
represented from 1975 to 1980. He quickly 
gained a reputation on the Board as a doer, 
a leader who got stuff done. The Carmel Hill 
Highway 1 climbing lane is a good example, 
and one that many of us use on a daily basis. 
And then there were countless other tasks and 
efforts that made life in the Fifth District that 
much better: resolution to a parking problem, 
a new park, viable ambulance service, assistance 
with County Planning, etc. His service 
stood out particularly in response to disasters 
both small and large. During the 2008 Basin 
Complex Fire and this year’s Sobranes Fire, 
Dave and his office were ever present in the 
thick of the action helping the community and 
incident command resolve countless issues 
that came up on an almost daily basis. This 
kind of service won Dave reelection in 2000, 
2004, 2008, and 2012. 

During his tenure on the Board, Dave 
served on many boards, committees and commissions 
including the California Coastal Commission 
for 12 years, Monterey Peninsula 
Water Management District, Fort Ord Reuse 
Authority, Legislative Committee, Fort Ord 
Committee, Capital Improvements Committee, 
Natividad Medical Center Board of Trustees, 
Chair of Transportation Agency for Monterey 
County, and Chair of the Rail Policy Committee. 
In addition, Dave received numerous 
awards of recognition from 1980 through 2015 
from a multitude of local cities and organizations, 
Chambers of Commerce, including resolutions 
from California State Senate and Congress 
representatives. 

Mr. Speaker, I know that I speak for the 
whole House in thanking Supervisor Potter for 
his many years of dedicated public service. I 
want to especially thank Dave’s wife Janine 
and his three adult children Myles, Tyler, and 
Sarah, and grandchildren, Ciara and Bella for 
lending their husband, father, and grandfather 
to the people of this community. As a resident 
myself of the Fifth District, I know that my 
neighbors and I owe him a deep gratitude for 
doing so much to improve our quality of life. 
The world is a better place because of his efforts. 


f 

RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND LEGACY 
OF NORTHWEST FLORIDA’S 
BELOVED WILLIAM LEE ‘‘BILL’’ 
SUTLER 

HON. JEFF MILLER 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. MILLER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
to recognize the life and legacy of Northwest 
Florida’s beloved William Lee ‘‘Bill’’ Sutler, 
who passed away on November 24, 2016. His 
love for his family and community, as well as 
his dedicated service in the United States 
Navy, will be remembered by all those who 
knew him. 

Bill was born August 31, 1932, in Stanton, 
Virginia where he grew up with his mother and 
two sisters. At the young age of 17, Bill made 
the choice to serve our Nation by joining the 
United States Navy, serving faithfully and honorably 
for the next 26 years. Bill utilized his 
talents as an aircraft mechanic aboard several 
ships including the USS Franklin D. Roosevelt, 
USS Saratoga, USS Constellation, and the 


E1560 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2016 

USS John F. Kennedy. Chief Petty Officer 
Sutler also worked on aircrafts VF–11, VF–31, 
VF–121, and the RVAH–11. In 1974, after 26 
years of service, he retired as a Senior Chief 
Petty Officer. After retirement, Bill continued 
his career by working for the state agriculture 
department and remained active in both 
Pineview Methodist Church and his community. 


Those who knew Bill, know that he was a 
kind, generous, and smart man. He will always 
be remembered fondly for the unwavering love 
that he held for his family and his country. 

On behalf of the United States Congress, I 
am privileged to recognize the life of William 
Lee ‘‘Bill’’ Sutler. My wife Vicki and I extend 
our heartfelt prayers and condolences to his 
wife Shirley ‘‘Colleen’’ Sutler; sons, William Jr. 
‘‘Billy’’ and Virginia Sutler, Michael and Cheryl 
Sutler, and Robert ‘‘Bobby’’ and Diane Sutler; 
six grandchildren, Penny, Jennifer, Emily, Emmett, 
and Caleb Sutler, and Amanda Bell; and 
two great-grandchildren. 

f 

HONORING DEPUTY COMMANDER 
PAT CAROTHERS 

HON. BOB GOODLATTE 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. GOODLATTE. Mr. Speaker, nearly two 
weeks ago, our nation lost another dedicated 
public servant committed to protecting our 
neighborhoods from criminals. 

Deputy Commander Pat Carothers of the 
Southeast Regional Fugitive Task Force died 
in the line of duty while executing an arrest 
warrant for a fugitive wanted for attempted 
murder of police officers and domestic violence. 


Deputy Commander Carothers served in the 

U.S. Marshals Service for 26 years. He was a 
native of Luray, Virginia, in the Sixth Congressional 
District which I represent, and spent his 
career serving the Northern District of Georgia. 
For over a quarter of a century, he risked 
his life every day to arrest fugitives of the law 
and see them brought to justice for their 
crimes. 
In addition to wearing the badge, Deputy 
Commander Carothers was also a family man. 
He was married to his wife Terry for 30 years 
and was a loving father to five children. As the 
Carothers family mourns their devastating 
loss, we pray that God would comfort them 
and give them peace. 

The murder of Deputy Commander 
Carothers reminds us once again that law enforcement 
officers face danger every day while 
on duty, whether simply knocking on a door or 
pulling someone over. 

In 2016 alone, 132 law enforcement officers 
died in the line of duty. Attacks on those who 
protect our neighborhoods from criminals and 
keep the peace are not to be tolerated. I—and 
others in Congress—stand shoulder to shoulder 
with our nation’s law enforcement officers 
and remain committed to finding solutions to 
reduce violence and aggression towards them. 

In the Gospel of John, we are told that there 
is no greater love than to lay down one’s life 
for one’s friends. And this is true of Deputy 
Commander Carothers. Every day he risked 
his life so that others would be safe from 
harm. He is a hero and deserves to be recog


nized and honored for his service to our country. 


f 

CELEBRATING THE TOWN OF 
WESTBOROUGH, MASSACHUSETTS 

HON. JAMES P. McGOVERN 

OF MASSACHUSETTS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, today I rise 
to celebrate the town of Westborough, Massachusetts 
as they enter the year of their 300th 
anniversary. Westborough was the 100th town 
to be incorporated in the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts on November 18th, 1717. 
Westborough has had an impressive history. 

Forty-six Minutemen left Westborough on 
April 19, 1775 under the command of Captain 
Edmund Brigham to fight in the opening battle 
of the Revolutionary War. In the early 1800s, 
Westborough became a key stop as travelers 
to and from Worcester and Boston stopped 
along their journey. 

Today, Westborough is a vibrant, thriving, 
and diverse town with an excellent school system 
and a family-oriented community. 
Westborough has been named ‘‘one of the 
best places to live’’ and a ‘‘top ten best town 
for families.’’ 

Westborough’s location at the center of 
Massachusetts has helped propel its thriving 
local economy. Westborough has many 
unique family-owned small businesses and is 
home to the headquarters of some of New 
England’s most notable companies. 

Congratulations, again, to the town of 
Westborough. As Westborough looks ahead to 
the next 300 years, I am proud to join so 
many in wishing them a bright and prosperous 
future. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO WAYNE STATE UNI


VERSITY POLICE OFFICER 

COLLIN ROSE 

HON. SANDER M. LEVIN 

OF MICHIGAN 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a 
heavy heart to commemorate the life of 
Wayne State University police officer Collin 
Rose, who was killed in the line of duty on November 
23, 2016. Officer Rose was my constituent, 
and lived in St. Clair Shores, Michigan. 


A K9 officer with the Wayne State University 
Police Department in Detroit, Officer Rose not 
only protected the faculty, staff and student 
body at the University, but also the community 
surrounding Wayne State’s campus. He was 
known to his friends and colleagues as a person 
of boundless energy, for his commitment 
to the safety of those he was sworn to serve, 
and for his kindness and generosity to others. 
A fellow member of the Wayne State University 
Police Department, Chris Powell, described 
Officer Rose as ‘‘. . . the light of the 
room. He was bears to honey. Everyone 
would befriend him.’’ 

As a memorial bicyclist with Chapter One of 
the Police Unity Tour, Officer Rose proudly 
honored police officers throughout the country 

who died in the line of duty. In addition to 
helping to broaden public awareness of the 
sacrifices made by fallen officers, Officer Rose 
and other Unity Tour participants throughout 
the nation have helped to raise millions of dollars 
for the National Law Enforcement Officers 
Memorial Fund and the National Law Enforcement 
Museum. An avid cyclist, Officer Rose 
proposed to his fiance´e, Nikki Salgot, after 
completing the last leg of the Police Unity 
Tour on May 12th of this year. 

A 13-year old boy, Kameren Greene, who 
lives near Wayne State and who came to 
know Officer Rose though his consistent outreach 
to young people in the neighborhood, 
told WXYZ-TV in Detroit, ‘‘It’s sad that he lost 
his life, and we lost a good friend.’’ So with 
profound sadness at his loss and deep gratitude 
for his service, I encourage my colleagues 
to join me in paying tribute to Officer 
Collin Rose, who was indeed a good friend to 
so many people, and in offering sincere condolences 
to Officer Rose’s fiance´e, Nikki 
Salgot; to his parents, Randy and Karen Rose 
and his brother Curtis Rose; to his colleagues 
with the Wayne State Police Department; and 
to the Wayne State community. 

f 

HONORING REVEREND FRANK E. 
COLEMAN JR. 

HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, as Messiah Baptist 
Church in Yonkers celebrates the installation 
of a new Pastor, I wanted to take the opportunity 
to congratulate and welcome the 
congregation’s new leader, Westchester’s own 
Reverend Frank E. Coleman Jr. 

A graduate of Tuckahoe High School, Rev. 
Coleman attended Virginia Union University 
where he graduated with a B.A. in Religion & 
Philosophy. Later he graduated from Almeda 
University where he received his Master’s degree 
in Pastoral Studies. 

Rev. Coleman began his Pastoral career at 
Zion Baptist Church in Westmoreland, Virginia, 
before moving back to Westchester as Pastor 
of Shiloh Baptist Church in Tuckahoe. In 2010, 
he once again returned to Virginia as Pastor 
of the First Baptist Church in South Boston 
and remained there until 2014, when he once 
again returned home to Westchester. Since 
September, 2015 Rev. Coleman has served 
as Pastor-Elect of the Mother Church, The 
Messiah Baptist Church in Yonkers, New 
York. 

In addition to his Pastoral duties, Rev. Coleman 
has left a lasting legacy of helping others 
everywhere he goes. He was the Vice President 
of the Halifax County Substance Abuse 
Awareness Coalition, Commissioner of The 
Southside Planning District Commission, 
Board Member of The Department of Social 
Services in Halifax, member of the S.C.L.C., 
Danville Branch and he served as the President 
of the Halifax/South Boston NAACP. He 
has also served as V.P. of the Tuckahoe 
School District’s school board, Member of the 
Tuckahoe Village’s Ethics Board and Co-
Founder/President of the Committee Worker 
for All Children (CWAC). 

Of course, Rev. Coleman’s true love has always 
been family. He is the husband of the 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1561 

Rev. Margaret Fountain Coleman of Mount 
Vernon New York and the father of one son 
and three daughters. 

I am honored to help welcome Rev. Coleman 
to Messiah Baptist and I wish him nothing 
but the best in his tenure. 

f 

HONORING U.S. ARMY CORPS OF 

ENGINEERS SAINT PAUL DIS


TRICT ON 150 YEARS 

HON. BETTY McCOLLUM 

OF MINNESOTA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate 
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
Saint Paul District on 150 years of service to 
residents of Minnesota and the entire upper 
Mississippi region. The Saint Paul district has, 
over the past century-and-a-half, conserved 
our aquatic habitats, managed the effects of 
drought and flood damage, provided outdoor 
recreation areas for the public, and ensured 
that the products and services produced in our 
region have the ability to be transported safely 
via our waterways. This is only to name a few 
of the critical tasks performed by the U.S. 
Army Corps of Engineers Saint Paul District. 

The Saint Paul District celebrates its birthday 
on August 17th every year because it was 
on that day in 1866 that Major General G.K. 
Warren, a West Point Graduate acclaimed for 
his leadership in the battle of Gettysburg, arrived 
in Saint Paul. His orders were seemingly 
modest: To establish an engineering office. He 
could not have known at the time, but the office 
that he established would go on to be entwined 
with the economy and history of the 
entire region. The first emergency that the St. 
Paul District responded to was the collapse of 
the Eastman Tunnel of Nicollet Island in Minneapolis. 
With expertise and precision, the 
Saint Paul district constructed structures to 
save both the island and nearby St. Anthony 
Falls. The structures that they built are still in 
use to this day. 

Later on its history, the Saint Paul District 
supported the nation’s mobilization during 
World War II. The Saint Paul District dredged 
the Minnesota River to the Port of Cargill, 
where Minnesota-based Cargill was building 
ships for the war effort. In addition, they also 
built an ordnance plant in Arden Hills, Minnesota, 
and airports in Fargo and Devil’s 
Lake, North Dakota. 

Today, any visit to the Mississippi River in 
St. Paul, showcases the work that the Saint 
Paul District does. The 13 locks and dams, 
and 9 foot navigation channel that the Saint 
Paul District operates and maintains, goes to 
support economically crucial inland navigation 
that benefits the entire upper Mississippi region. 
One of the most important tasks that the 
Saint Paul District has is to help communities 
combat the effects of flooding through disaster 
support and by the construction of flood risk 
management projects. This includes 16 large 
reservoirs for flood risk reduction that also 
offer recreation and fish and wildlife habitat. 
Another little known operation of the Saint 
Paul District is the operation of 49 separate 
recreation areas open to the public. 

The Saint Paul District has supported the 
citizens of the Fourth Congressional District, 
and thousands of people in the upper Mis


sissippi River region for 150 years. Every task 
that they undertake goes to benefit the people 
they serve by strengthening the local economy, 
enabling the movement of goods and 
people, maintaining and restoring natural 
aquatic ecosystems, and reducing and preventing 
the effects of floods and droughts. Mr. 
Speaker, please join me in congratulating the 
Saint Paul District of the U.S. Army Corps of 
Engineers on 150 years of service. 

f 

USS ‘‘JOHN P. MURTHA’’ (LPD–26) 

HON. MARCY KAPTUR 

OF OHIO 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize the commissioning of the USS John 

P. Murtha, the new naval vessel named in 
honor of the late Congressman Jack Murtha, 
who will fondly be remembered as a decorated 
combat Marine, statesman, and dear 
friend to colleagues on both sides of the aisle. 
On Saturday, October 8, 2016 in Philadelphia, 
PA, the Navy’s 10th San Antonio-class 
amphibious transport dock, named the USS 
John P. Murtha (LPD 26), was commissioned 
by his beloved widow Mrs. Joyce Murtha and 
daughter Ms. Donna Murtha. 

During his 58 years of service to our nation, 
38 in the U.S. Marine Corps and 35 as a 
Member of U.S. Congress from Johnstown, 
PA, Rep. Murtha was an indefatigable champion 
for the Armed Services, rising in 1989 to 
chair the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. 
His detailed knowledge of the U.S. 
military, deep friendships across the various 
services, respect from his Congressional colleagues 
on both sides of the aisle, and wry 
sense of humor drew people to him and made 
him a highly effective lawmaker. Jack was a 
father of three children, the first Vietnam War 
combat veteran elected to Congress, recipient 
of the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage 
Award, and staunch representative of his people. 
His own wartime experience as a battalion 
staff officer in Vietnam, where he was awarded 
the Bronze Star, two Purple Hearts, and 
the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry, gave him 
deep insight into the political and military complexities 
of modern warfare. 

An author, From Vietnam to 9/11: On the 
Front Lines of National Security with a New 
Epilogue on the Iraq War, he wrote: The Congress—
the people’s branch of government— 
has an obligation to make an independent assessment 
of key foreign policy issues. The 
way we go about collecting, analyzing, and 
using intelligence information is one of the 
most important determinants of our success or 
failure in world events. Unfortunately, it is a 
lesson we have had to learn too often, at a 
heavy price in American blood and treasure. 
What is certain, is that intelligence must always 
be used as a tool of statecraft, not as a 
political tool. 

As this ship performs its missions on behalf 
of the American people, I have full confidence 
Jack Murtha’s patriotic and strong spirit—Semper 
Fidelis—will be guiding the vessel if it encounters 
troubled waters as it navigates toward 
fair winds and following seas. 

I include in the RECORD the remarks of 
Democratic Leader NANCY PELOSI given at the 
commissioning of the USS John P. Murtha. 

PELOSI REMARKS AT USS JOHN P. MURTHA 
COMMISSIONING CEREMONY 

PHILADELPHIA.—House Democratic Leader 
Nancy Pelosi delivered remarks today, October 
8, 2016, at the commission ceremony of 
the USS John P. Murtha. Below are the 
Leader’s remarks: 

‘‘Good morning. Thank you very much, Admiral 
William Moran for your kind introduction 
but more importantly, for your great 
leadership. As one that grew up in Baltimore, 
Maryland, I have a great loyalty to 
the Naval Academy, so I appreciate your 
comments about the Navy—but I had four 
brothers who served in the Army so . . . 

[Laughter and applause] 

‘‘It is an honor to be with you today, with 
Secretary Valdez—please give our regards to 
Secretary Mabus—to Major General Christopher 
Owens—it is a proud day for all of us 
to come together for the Navy and the Marine 
Corps, for the Commissioning of the 
USS John P. Murtha. 

‘‘Chairman Murtha—as you have heard— 
was a legislator of unsurpassed talents, a soldier 
of extraordinary courage and a public 
servant to the end. Mr. Brady—my colleague, 
Congressman Brady is correct: we will never 
see his light again. 

‘‘I thank the Murtha family for the opportunity 
to make this address today. I appreciate 
this opportunity to bring the greetings 
and congratulations from Jack Murtha’s 
many friends in the Congress of the United 
States, on both sides of the aisle, on both 
sides in the Capitol and all the way down 
Pennsylvania Avenue. 

‘‘I am glad to be with my colleagues— 
present and former—the Undersecretary of 
the Army Patrick Murphy—as he mentioned, 
the first Iraq veteran to serve in the Congress—
Congressman Bob Brady, in whose district 
we are and great friend of Jack Murtha’s, 
Congressman Keith Rothfus, he represents 
the district that Jack represented in 
Congress, and as well as Mark Critz, who followed 
in Jack’s footsteps, and Marjorie 
Margolies-Mezvinsky, who is here as well— 
who represented Philadelphia in Congress. It 
is also an honor to be here with Lieutenant 
Governor Michael Stack—recognizing the 
important role that Pennsylvania and Philadelphia 
play in our national security. 

‘‘It is appropriate for us to be here in 
Pennsylvania to honor Jack Murtha—a state 
he loved and was proud to represent and to 
serve. In the House Chamber—Congressman 
Bob Brady mentioned the ‘Pennsylvania Corner’—
Jack took great pride that in the 
House of Representatives, the ‘Pennsylvania 
Corner’ was the most bipartisan corner in 
the Chamber. In the Chamber, everyone 
gravitated toward Jack Murtha—Democrats 
and Republicans alike. 

‘‘To Brian Cuccias—Brian and the Ingalls 
shipbuilders, thank you for the skill, hard 
work and patriotism of all the men and 
women of labor who built this fine ship that 
enters service today. And many of you were 
in Mississippi when Donna christened the 
ship. It is wonderful to see so many of you 
here today. Thank you. Thank you for making 
today possible. 

[Applause] 

‘‘Commanding Officer, Captain Kevin J. 
Parker, it was a privilege to be with you last 
year in Mississippi at the Murtha’s christening 
when you were the prospective commander, 
and now at this time-honored commissioning 
ceremony to become the Commanding 
Officer—that is when Donna gives 
the signal. When Donna gives the signal— 
we’re all waiting for her. 

‘‘And to the sailors and the Marines—the 
men and women who will crew this ship over 
the oceans and perhaps ride it into battle, 
take it to humanitarian assistance—to you, 


E1562 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2016 

and your families—thank you for honoring 
our country, all of us with your bravery and 
service. 

[Applause] 

‘‘It is a joy to be with the family members, 
as my colleagues and others have said, 
Jack’s daughter, our ship sponsor, Donna, 
his sons John and Pat, grandchildren, nephews 
and nieces and others. 

‘‘I send the congratulations and thanks of 
my colleagues in Congress to Joyce—Joyce, 
the love of Jack’s life. She and Jack were 
both so proud of having this ship named in 
his honor but Admiral Joyce was very proud 
to comment that the ship that she christened, 
the USS Bonhomme Richard, was a 
bigger ship. Not a competition, though. 

‘‘Service runs deep in Jack Murtha’s family 
from his brothers, Kit and Jim, to his 
nephews Brian and Bob—all proud Marines— 
and his grandson, Lieutenant Jack Murtha 
in the Air Force, and to Jack’s wife, Captain 
Amanda Murtha. 

‘‘Today, as you commission, as we all commission, 
the USS John P. Murtha, I want to 
tell you a little bit about the man your ship 
is named for—his legacy of strength, effectiveness 
and fidelity. As was mentioned by 
my colleague, as a child, John’s grandmother 
told him: ‘You are put on this earth to make 
a difference.’ And that’s exactly what he did. 
John P. Murtha dedicated his entire life to 
the service of our nation. 

‘‘Jack Murtha was a fiercely proud Marine, 
who volunteered for combat in Vietnam— 
earning two Purple Hearts and a Bronze 
Star. In the end, Congressman Murtha would 
leave the Corps with 37 years of service to 
his name. How proud he was of that. 

‘‘In the Congress, Chairman Murtha was a 
formidable legislator and a towering leader. 
To watch Jack Murtha legislate was to observe 
a master at work. But more indicative 
of his character was to watch him communicate, 
with our troops in theater, at the 
Pentagon, and in their hospital rooms. 

‘‘His experiences in the battlefield of Vietnam 
was what fueled his boundless dedication 
to our men and women in uniform—with 
that connection to those warriors he frequently 
visited in Washington, across the 
country and around the world. 

‘‘A few of us had the privilege of traveling 
in bipartisan delegations with Jack—and 
this one in particular to Kuwait, a few weeks 
before the initiation of hostilities into Iraq— 
we observed the level of detail with which 
Jack conversed with the soldiers, whether it 
was the comfort of the seats in their 
Humvees—how much they could endure as 
they did their jobs—responding to their 
needs, providing body and vehicle armor and 
reliable radios—you name it. Again, not just 
the big picture, but down to the personal 
comfort and safety of our troops. 

‘‘In those moments, Jack bonded with 
them, sharing his own personal military experiences, 
and caring for them really as a father—
as Secretary Murtha said, he treated 
them as family. And they returned his respect. 


‘‘We often saw this when he would take 
groups of us—as Bob mentioned—take groups 
of us on regular visits to our wounded warriors 
in the hospitals. One day as we were 
going into one of the rooms and the nurse 
came and said, ‘Hold up. Hold up for a while.’ 
We wanted to be very respectful and sensitive 
to the privacy of the soldiers. But 
when we walked in to the room, we saw a 
young, injured soldier standing at attention 
by his bed and saluting Jack Murtha wearing 
a Pittsburgh Steelers jersey right after they 
had won the Super Bowl. 

[Applause] 

‘‘That was football but it was very personal 
with Jack. 

‘‘It is important to note that Jack defined 
our nation’s strength, not only in our mili


tary might—as important as our military is 
and the priority that it is—but also our 
strength is measured by Jack in the health 
and well being of the American people. 

‘‘Chairman Murtha fought for the armed 
forces—whether it was for what they needed, 
for our troops, facilities—but he also fought 
to advance scientific research to seek treatments 
and cures for breast cancer, prostate 
cancer, diabetes, and HIV/AIDS—the list 
goes on and on. Today, at Walter Reed, the 
John P. Murtha Cancer Center carries forward 
his commitment to the health of our 
entire community. 

‘‘John Murtha made a difference—for our 
national defense, for our nation’s health, for 
the men and women who wear our nation’s 
uniform. 

‘‘Commander Parker, as this fine ship 
comes alive with her outstanding crew, the 
strength of the USS John P. Murtha will embody 
our nation’s promise to stand with you 
and your crew—through the storm and the 
calm, both as you defend democracy abroad, 
and when you come home safely. And when 
our men and women in uniform come home, 
Jack wanted them to feel safe as well. 

‘‘In the military, he always told us: on the 
battlefield, we leave no soldier behind. And 
when they come home, we leave no veteran 
behind. So I join all of those saluting our 
veterans who are here today. That was a priority 
for Jack Murtha. 

[Applause] 

‘‘ ‘Semper Fi’ was the watchword of Jack 
Murtha’s life. And always faithful he was: to 
his principles, to his promises, to his family 
and to the nation he loved. 

‘‘As we place the Murtha into active service, 
we also renew our pledge to also always 
be faithful to you—the sailors and Marines 
who will board her today, and to every crew 
who follows. 

‘‘Like John P. Murtha, each of you has 
stepped forward and answered the call to 
‘make a difference’—for our country, and for 
the world. Be proud of the legacy that has 
been passed down to you, be proud of your 
ship’s namesake and motto, and be proud of 
the values you share. 

‘‘May God bless the USS John P. Murtha. 

‘‘May God bless the brave men and women 
who will serve aboard it—and the privilege of 
serving as the first crew for one of these 
great ships, who will be transported within 
it—and the families who wait for their safe 
return. You are family to all of us. You will 
always be in our prayers. 

‘‘May God bless you and may God bless the 
United States of America.’’ 

f 

HONORING BOB STAUF 

HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, as a former 
school teacher, I know just how dedicated our 
educators are to their students as well as the 
community as a whole. In the Bronx and 
Westchester, no one has displayed that dedication 
more than Bob Stauf, one of the honorees 
at this year’s American Irish Association 
of Westchester Annual Dinner. 

Involved in the world of education for a half 
century, Bob Stauf has taught elementary and 
junior high students at St. Philip Neri School in 
the Bronx, in the Yonkers Public School system 
and Yonkers and Tarrytown Salvation 
Army citadels. His work with the Salvation 
Army has also extended to its Advisory Board, 

on which he currently serves as President for 
the Yonkers chapter. Bob is also the President 
of the 3rd Precinct Police Community Council, 
Vice President of the American Irish of Westchester, 
and facilitator of programming of 
Brahma Kumaris in Westchester. He has also 
taught adult education and home school instruction 
with the Yonkers School System and 
the Children’s Village Yonkers Satellite program. 


Bob has also made a difference at the local 
level through his work in City government. He 
has chaired the Yonkers Human Rights Commission 
under two administrations, chaired the 
Mayors Community Relations Committee and 
Mayor’s Committee on Irish Affairs, chaired 
the Yonkers Community Action Program and 
was Vice Chair of New York State Community 
Agencies. 

In addition, Bob is a good friend who was 
personally helpful to me just prior to my first 
trip as a Member of Congress to Ireland. He 
was a wonderful resource on Irish matters, 
and even traveled with me on that trip. 

This year the American Irish Association of 
Westchester is honoring Bob Stauf at their Annual 
Dinner Dance. I want to congratulate Bob 
on this well-deserved honor and thank him for 
his many contributions to both the Bronx and 
Yonkers communities. 

f 

CELEBRATING KAZAKHSTAN’S 25 
YEARS OF INDEPENDENCE 

HON. DANA ROHRABACHER 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ROHRABACHER. Mr. Speaker, on December 
16th the people of Kazakhstan will 
celebrate 25 years of their independence. 
From the collapse of the Soviet Union to the 
present day, Kazakhstan has become a valued 
member in the international community 
and is a respected voice as a nonpermanent 
member of the United Nations Security Coun


cil. For the United States, the first country to 
recognize Kazakhstan’s independence, this 
moment not only symbolizes Kazakhstan’s remarkable 
development, but also marks 25 
years of cooperation and friendship between 
our two nations. 
Our strategic partnership was founded on a 
shared interest in nuclear nonproliferation and 
security. When the Soviet Union dissolved, 
Kazakhstan inherited the fourth largest nuclear 
stockpile in the world. Rather than using those 
resources in unproductive ways, through 
President Nursultan Nazarbayev’s leadership 
this nuclear arsenal was decommissioned and 
Kazakhstan has continued to cooperate in 
these efforts. 

Over the 25 years the economic relationship 
between Kazakhstan and the United States 
has greatly expanded as well. The Kazakh 
economy is dynamic and open to the world. 
From 1993 to 2013 American firms invested 
more than $42 billion in Kazakhstan, and trade 
between our nations is measured in the billions 
of dollars per year. 

The government and the people of 
Kazakhstan have made great strides in building 
an economically diverse, multi-ethnic and 
prosperous country. Kazakhstan exemplifies a 
country of religious diversity and shows the 
world how people of various faiths can live together 
in peace. I congratulate them on that 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1563 

achievement. In the coming years, I hope to 
see the cooperation between the United 
States and Kazakhstan continue to grow as 
future leaders build on the successful foundation 
that has already been laid. 

f 

HONORING CHIEF KATHLEEN 
HARRELL ON HER RETIREMENT 

HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Chief Kathleen Harrell, on the occasion 
of her retirement from the Florida Department 
of Corrections. 

Chief Harrell has given 30 years of distinguished 
public service to the State of Florida 
through her knowledge, integrity and leadership. 
Her tenure at the Florida Department of 
Corrections began on August of 1986, where 
she worked as a Field Agent within the Correctional 
Probation sector. She then spent 
several years performing professional work investigating, 
assessing, supervising, counseling, 
administrating, and/or classifying offenders 
as a Correctional Probation Officer. It 
was in 1993 when she joined the Office of Inspector 
General and strived passionately to 
become the Assistant Chief of Investigations 
for the Florida Department in January of 2013. 
Chief Harrell deserves our admiration and respect 
for her dedication to public service. 

Besides working tirelessly to ensure the 
wellbeing of Florida’s citizens, Chief Harrell 
dedicates time to worship as a member of the 
New Mount Olive Baptist Church in Ft. Lauderdale, 
FL since 2011. She has also been an 
avid cyclist for ten years and frequently participates 
in fundraising rides for multiple sclerosis 
and HIV/AIDS charities. If there’s something 
Chief Harrell loves as much as cycling, it is 
the Miami Dolphins, being a seasonal ticket 
holder for around fourteen years now. 

Mr. Speaker, it is my distinct honor to congratulate 
Chief Kathleen Harrell on her retirement. 
I wish her the very best of luck in all her 
future endeavors. 

f 

REMEMBERING MR. TOM BAKER 

HON. CATHY McMORRIS RODGERS 

OF WASHINGTON 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mrs. MCMORRIS RODGERS. Mr. Speaker, 
I rise to honor the memory of Tom Baker of 
Waitsburg, Washington who passed away on 
November 14, 2016 at the age of 86. 

Tom Baker was born on April 17, 1930 in 
Fort Morgan, Colorado. As a child, he was a 
member of the Boy Scouts of America, and 
active in various church, music, and social 
events. Following his high school graduation, 
Tom attended the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
where he graduated with a Bachelor’s 
of Science in Printing Management in 1953. It 
was during his college years that he met and 
fell in love with his wife Anita. 

Tom’s passion and dream from a young age 
was to work in newspapers. Following positions 
with various local newspapers in Colorado, 
Tom and Anita eventually moved to 

Waitsburg in 1963, where Tom bought stake 
in the Waitsburg Times, eventually becoming 
editor and publisher in 1964. 

As publisher of the Waitsburg Times for 27 
years, Tom was able to employ his dry wit and 
unique style while chronicling the life and 
times of the people of Waitsburg. Tom officially 
sold his stake in the Waitsburg Times in 
1991, but happily contributed to the paper with 
his weekly column ‘‘TOMfoolery’’ until 2009. 
Tom understood the importance of providing 
the citizens of Waitsburg with a weekly print 
newspaper tailored to their interests and passions. 


An active member of his community, Tom 
enjoyed spending his time working with the 
Waitsburg Commercial Club, Masonic Lodge 
No. 16, the Waitsburg Historical Society, the 
Waitsburg Presbyterian Church Choir and 
Board of Elders, the Walla Walla Community 
College Board of Trustees, and the Washington 
Newspaper Publishers Association 
among many others. 

Tom was also an active and loyal community 
servant, who ably filled roles on the 
Waitsburg City Council and served as Mayor 
of Waitsburg on two separate occasions. 

Tom is survived by his wife of 64 years, 
Anita, his sons Charles and Loyal, and daughter 
Peggy, as well as numerous grandchildren 
and great-grandchildren. 

Mr. Speaker, Tom Baker was a dedicated 
public servant and important member of the 
greater Waitsburg community for many years 
who will be truly missed. His positive spirit, belief 
in the good of the community, and devotion 
to his passions was truly admirable. I will 
fondly remember Tom Baker and share my 
condolences with his family. 

f 

INTRODUCTION OF CONSTITUTIONAL 
AMENDMENT TO ELIMINATE 
THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE 
AND PROVIDE FOR THE DIRECT 
ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT 
AND VICE PRESIDENT 

HON. STEVE COHEN 

OF TENNESSEE 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in 
support of a constitutional amendment I introduced 
today to eliminate the electoral college 
and provide for the direct election of our nation’s 
President and Vice President. 

For the second time in recent memory, and 
for the fifth time in our history, we have a 
President-elect, who lost the popular vote. 

The reason is because of an antiquated 
system that was established to prevent citizens 
from directly electing our nation’s President. 


That notion—that citizens should be prevented 
from directly electing the President—is 
antithetical to our understanding of democracy. 


In our country, ‘‘We the People,’’ are supposed 
to determine who represents us in elective 
office. 

Yet, we use an anachronistic process for 
choosing who will hold the highest offices in 
the land. 

It is time for us to fix this, and that is why 
I have introduced this amendment today. 

When the Founders established the electoral 
college it was in an era of limited nation


wide communication. It was premised on a 
theory that citizens would have a better 
chance of knowing about electors from their 
home states than about presidential candidates 
from out-of-state. 

The development of mass media and the 
internet, however, has made information about 
presidential candidates easily accessible to 

U.S. citizens across the country and around 
the world. 
Today, citizens have a far better chance of 
knowing about out-of-state presidential candidates 
than knowing about presidential electors 
from their home states. Most people don’t 
even know who their electors are. 

As Thomas Jefferson said, ‘‘I am not an advocate 
for frequent changes in laws and constitutions, 
but laws and institutions must go 
hand in hand with the progress of the human 
mind. As that becomes more developed, more 
enlightened, as new discoveries are made, 
new truths discovered and manners and opinions 
change, with the change of circumstances, 
institutions must advance also to 
keep pace with the times. We might well as 
require a man to wear still the coat which 
fitted him when a boy as civilized society to 
remain ever under the regimen of their barbarous 
ancestors.’’ 

Since our nation first adopted our Constitution, 
‘‘We the People,’’ have amended it repeatedly 
to expand the opportunity for citizens 
to directly elect our leaders. What resulted 
was the following: 

The 15th Amendment guarantees the right 
of all citizens to vote, regardless of race. 

The 19th Amendment guarantees the right 
of all citizens to vote, regardless of gender. 

The 26th Amendment guarantees the right 
of all citizens 18 years of age and older to 
vote, regardless of age. 

And the 17th Amendment empowers citizens 
to directly elect U.S. Senators. 

We need to empower citizens to directly 
elect the President and the Vice President of 
the United States. 

I am privileged to serve as Ranking Member 
of the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee 
on the Constitution and Civil Justice. 
My colleagues and I at the Judiciary 
Committee will be holding a forum next week 
to examine our outdated presidential election 
process. I hope members will attend and 
share their views. 

Working together, I know we can fix this historical 
anomaly, and make our Constitution 
better reflect the ‘‘more perfect Union’’ to 
which it aspires. 

f 

HONORING MARY KEEHAN 

HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize a leader in our community, Mary 
Keehan, who is an honoree at the American 
Irish Association of Westchester Annual Dinner 
Dance. 

Mary was born in White Plains, New York to 
Peter and Catherine Kevil, who emigrated 
from Ireland and married in Scarsdale. Mary 
attended White Plains High School and simultaneously 
worked part-time at Macy’s department 
store. Eventually graduating with honors 


E1564 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2016 

and becoming an office manager for a Chiropractor, 
Mary felt her passion in a different 
field and decided to return to school in the 
field of Electrolysis. 

Mary combined passion for service and 
business, and she established her own practice 
in Electrolysis. Her business has served 
thousands of people for the past 34 years, 
while her service to her community through 
volunteerism made an equally lasting impact. 

Mary became a member of the American 
Irish Association, where she held the office of 
President in 2008, and currently serves as the 
financial secretary. Mary is also a member of 
the Tarrytown LAOH, and is often seen leading 
the Rockland County Ancient Order of the 
Hibernian’s Pipe Band in marches and parades 
as ‘‘Banner Mom’’. 

With such an impressive record of civic engagement, 
it’s no surprise Mary’s list of accomplishments 
is extensive: President of the 
Ardsley American Legion Auxiliary for six 
years, President in 1981 of the Westchester 
County American Legion Auxiliary, National 
Board Member at the NYS Electrolysis Association, 
President of the Ardsley Garden Club, 
Board Member of the Ninth District of Federated 
Garden Club of NYS, Board Member of 
the Girls Scout of Westchester-Putnam, and 
committee member of Dobbs Ferry Woman’s 
Club. She also serves on the Board of Elections 
for the Town of Greenburgh. 

Married to George Keehan, Mary and her 
loving husband raised six wonderful children 
together. She is also the proud grandmother 
of six amazing grandchildren, her pride and 
joy. 

Mary has shown incredible spirit through her 
service and love of family. It is an honor to 
recognize her as one of the American Irish Association 
of Westchester Annual Dinner Dance 
Honorees. Congratulations to Mary on this 
most deserved recognition. 

f 

RECOGNIZING THE PEORIA LIONS 
ON THEIR STATE TITLE 

HON. CHERI BUSTOS 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor The Peoria Lions for their Class 5A 
championship win against the Vernon Hills 
Cougars earlier this week. 

Peoria struggled to stop the Cougars in the 
first half, but the Lions forced three second-
half turnovers, allowing them to build a two-
score lead. Junior quarterback Coran Taylor 
threw for 215 yards and two touchdowns, and 
added 134 yards and three scores on the 
ground. Fellow junior Geno Hess led all rushers 
with 215 yards and two touchdowns of his 
own. In the end the Lions racked up 621 yards 
in their 62–48 win. 

I congratulate the Peoria Lions on their outstanding 
victory in their 5A championship win. 
The Lions are now first-time state champions, 
a testament to the impressive football program 
that coach Tim Thornton has built. 

Mr. Speaker, as a former athlete, I understand 
how important this is to the young men, 
the coaches and the community. They never 
gave up. They kept playing their best, and 

their team spirit and belief in themselves 
helped them become state champions. Their 
efforts and resilience should inspire us all. 

f 

RECOGNIZING SYSCO NORTH 
TEXAS’ OSHA ‘‘STAR SITE’’ HONOR 

HON. KENNY MARCHANT 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. MARCHANT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to recognize Sysco North Texas and its nearly 
600 employees for the achievement of being 
recognized as an OSHA Voluntary Protection 
Program ‘‘Star Site.’’ 

The Star Site designation is the highest 
honor within OSHA’s Voluntary Protection Program. 
The Program rewards companies who 
lay out a comprehensive compliance and safety 
risk management plan for internal controls, 
which translates directly into fewer workplace 
injuries and illnesses. Sysco North Texas received 
this award by maintaining a workplace 
injury incident rating well below the industry 
average, and by meeting other strict metrics 
for workplace safety. 

Sysco North Texas operates an 800,000 
square foot facility in Lewisville, Texas, serving 
nearly 4,000 customers throughout the 
Dallas-Fort Worth metro region and beyond. 
The facility has been in operation since 1973. 
As an upstanding business in the 24th District 
of Texas, I am proud to represent Sysco North 
Texas here in Congress. I commend them and 
all other businesses around my district as they 
continue to provide good jobs and safe work 
environments for Texas citizens. 

Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to recognize 
the safe and beneficial work environment 
Sysco North Texas provides for its employees. 
I ask all of my distinguished colleagues to join 
me in recognizing this hard earned achievement. 


f 

IN RECOGNITION OF ROBERT W. 

LOHR, JR.’S 30 YEARS OF PUBLIC 

SERVICE 

HON. BARBARA COMSTOCK 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I am honored 
to thank Mr. Robert W. Lohr, Jr. for his 
three decades of extraordinary leadership and 
service to the town of Purcellville, Virginia, located 
in my congressional district. 

Mr. Lohr has served in local government for 
30 years, and for the past 23 years he was 
the town manager of Purcellville. As town 
manager he has been instrumental in the 
growth and development of Purcellville. Mr. 
Lohr has overseen Purcellville’s rapid growth 
to a community of around 9,000 residents. 

In his role as town manager, Mr. Lohr, 
oversaw a number of important projects to improve 
the local infrastructure and quality of life 
for Purcellville’s residents. Some of these 
projects include the development of the 
Basham Simms Wastewater Treatment Plant 
and the Purcellville Maintenance Facility, as 

well as the effort to preserve and improve historic 
downtown Purcellville. Mr. Lohr’s dedication 
to bettering the town and the lives of its 
citizens has been evident during his years of 
tireless service. 

Mr. Lohr’s selfless desire to constantly improve 
Purcellville never went unnoticed, least 
of all to his colleagues in the town government. 
Working in close collaboration with the 
town council, Mr. Lohr was able to identify the 
needs of the town’s citizens, and develop a 
strategy in order to complete their needed 
goals. 

Mr. Speaker, I now ask that my colleagues 
join me in recognizing Mr. Robert Lohr, Jr.’s 
30 years of public service, especially those 23 
years as town manager of Purcellville, Virginia. 
Today, we honor and celebrate the contributions 
he has made to the town and all its 
citizens. I wish him all the best in his future 
endeavors. 

f 

RECOGNIZING JOHN NESGODA AS 
THE AMERICAN VETERANS 
(AMVETS) POST 1 OF PENNSYLVANIA’S 
VETERAN OF THE 
YEAR 

HON. LOU BARLETTA 

OF PENNSYLVANIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege 
to honor Mr. John Nesgoda for receiving 
the American Veterans (AMVETS) Post 1 of 
Pennsylvania’s Veteran of the Year Award. 
AMVETS’ mission is to enhance and safeguard 
the entitlements for all American veterans 
that have served honorably. Through 
leadership, advocacy, and engagement, 
AMVETS work to improve the quality of life for 
our veterans, their families, and their communities, 
and John’s years of dedication to these 
principles have earned him this important 
award. 

During the height of the Vietnam War, John 
answered the call to serve his country and enlisted 
in the United States Air Force. From 
1963 to 1967, John served overseas providing 
communications support to troops on the front 
lines. His service to others did not stop after 
leaving active duty. As 3rd Vice Commander, 
and a lifetime member of AMVETS Post 1, 
John leads by example and works every day 
to ensure that all Pennsylvania veterans are 
taken care of. He is a lifetime member in the 
McAdoo Veterans of Foreign Wars Post and a 
member of the Quakake American Legion. 
John has also spearheaded fundraising efforts 
that support veterans’ programs like PTSD 
Working Dogs for PA Veterans, Hazleton Cold 
Weather Shelters for local veterans, coordinated 
numerous military funerals, and assists 
with cemetery maintenance. 

Mr. Speaker, I wish to congratulate Mr. John 
Nesgoda for receiving the American Veterans 
(AMVETS) Post 1 of Pennsylvania’s Veteran 
of the Year Award. His years of service, during 
both active duty and as a veteran, have 
exemplified his commitment to his country and 
the military veterans in the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania. On behalf of my constituents, I 
thank John for his dedication and wish him 
and his wife Carol all the best in their future 
endeavors. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1565 

HONORING MARY ‘‘SCOTTY’’ 
O’SULLIVAN 

HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor a beautiful spirit, Ms. Mary P. 
O’Sullivan, known commonly around the 
neighborhood as ‘‘Scotty.’’ Mary went to her 
eternal home April 18th, 2016 surrounded by 
her loving family and friends. Though she is 
no longer with us, Scotty’s contributions to the 
community will forever live on, as she has left 
a lasting impact on all of those she was able 
to touch in life. 

Scotty, along with her husband, the late 
Jimmy ‘‘Sonny’’ O’Sullivan, were the proprietors 
of ‘‘Tara Irish Gift Shop’’ in Inwood for 
over 35 years. The store was a local mainstay 
for decades, selling everything from checkered 
Irish walking caps and Celtic crosses to green 
neckties bedecked with little Irish flags. She 
operated the shop at 609 West 207th Street 
with Thomas and Kathleen Traynor until 2001, 
a remarkable run for any business establishment 
in New York City. 

Scotty was also incredibly active in an array 
of community groups, and was especially active 
in many Irish-American organizations. She 
was a long time, beloved active member of 
the American Irish Association of Westchester 
and always organized and ran the raffles at 
the annual Heritage Day. Of course, Scotty’s 
great love was always family. She is survived 
by her loving in-laws and many nieces & 
nephews. 

Scotty’s life was an inspiration, and she will 
forever be a part of the amazing Irish-American 
community in New York. I want to thank 
the American Irish Association of Westchester 
for honoring her at this year’s Annual Dinner 
Dance. 

f 

CELEBRATING SYLVIA 
ROSENBLATT’S 100TH BIRTHDAY 

HON. LOIS FRANKEL 

OF FLORIDA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Ms. FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to celebrate Sylvia Rosenblatt, who 
turned 100 years young in November. Sylvia 
is a dedicated volunteer in our South Florida 
community and a beloved mother, grandmother, 
and great-grandmother. 

Throughout her life Sylvia has been committed 
to helping others. She volunteers for 
numerous organizations including the Mandel 
Jewish Community Center and the Forgotten 
Soldiers Outreach, where she helps pack and 
ship care packages to soldiers overseas. 

I join with Sylvia’s friends, family, and the 
ACE Lifelong Learning Center in celebrating 
her birthday. I wish her good health and continued 
success in the coming year. 

HONORING MARCUS JOHN 
BRADSHAW 

HON. JANICE HAHN 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Ms. HAHN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor Marcus John Bradshaw, the grandson 
of Jimmie Bernstein, and a former neighbor of 
mine when I lived in Long Beach, California. 
Marcus John Bradshaw was born to John and 
Sheri (Bernstein) Bradshaw on July 26, 1988, 
in Hazel Crest, Illinois. Marcus was blessed to 
have three older brothers, Eric, John and Timothy. 
Known for his kindness, Marcus was 
steadfastly loyal and faithful to all who were 
blessed to know him. 

Marcus attended Western Avenue Elementary 
School in Flossmoor, Illinois, where he 
played soccer and baseball. Marcus went to 
Parker Junior High School in Flossmoor, 
where he played volleyball, golf, as well as 
participated in a national chorus. Outside of 
school, he was a member of a traveling baseball 
team, for which he played second base. 
Marcus graduated from Homewood-Flossmoor 
High School in 2006. He lettered in volleyball, 
participated in intramural sports, and became 
an official ball boy for the Chicago Bears. During 
the 2006 season, Marcus went to the 
Super Bowl when the Bears played the Indianapolis 
Colts. His school chronicled his experience 
as an NFL ball boy for the Chicago 
Bears in a feature article for its newspaper, 
the Homewood-Flossmoor High School Voyager. 
Marcus attended DePaul University, 
where he participated in the volleyball club 
and enjoyed playing flag football with friends. 
In 2010, he earned a Bachelor of Science degree 
in Business Management. 

Marcus began his professional career as a 
Brand Ambassador for Powerade and Fuze. 
He was then promoted to Event Manager for 
Powerade. He also worked as a Construction 
Coordinator for Goodman Networks. Following 
his tenure there, he worked for Bradshaw 
Construction & Management, first as a Field 
Inspector at Chicago’s Midway Airport and 
then as a Quality Assurance Inspector at 
O’Hare International Airport. Marcus proved to 
be a consummate professional, known for his 
strong work ethic and his consistent punctuality. 


His travels included Mexico, the Caribbean 
islands, Australia, as well as two trips to China 
including the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. 
Marcus’ sparkling personality, infectious smile, 
and winning ways reflected his humorous side. 
He was witty and fun to be around. His favorite 
pastimes included fantasy football and fantasy 
basketball. In addition, he skied, continued 
to play volleyball and golf, and as a testament 
to his athletic prowess, served as a wide 
receiver for the Chicago Thunder semi-professional 
football team. 

Marcus truly enjoyed life to the fullest and 
experienced much in his 27 years. Marcus 
made his transition to everlasting peace and 
joy on July 5, 2016, from the rare incurable 
disease, autoimmune hemolytic anemia. 
Marcus will forever remain in the minds and 
hearts of those who love him as his spirit 
soars with the angels in the presence and love 
of God. 

Marcus is survived by those that honor and 
cherish his memory including: his parents, 

John and Sheri Bradshaw; his brother Eric 
and his wife Ana; his brother John and his 
wife, Sylvia; his brother Timothy; his maternal 
grandmother Jimmie Bernstein; as well as a 
host of loving family members and a legion of 
friends throughout the nation. 

f 

IN RECOGNITION OF JOSHUA, 

JONLUKE, AND CALEB O’CAIN, 

AND ALEX MARJANOVICH 

HON. BARBARA COMSTOCK 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to acknowledge 
Joshua, Jonluke, and Caleb 
O’Cain, and their friend Alex Marjanovich from 
my district for their charitable service to our 
veterans through their book collection efforts. 
Eagle Scout candidate Joshua O’Cain decided 
on this endeavor for his final project, which 
consisted of making boxes where people can 
donate their used books for the children of our 
nation’s veterans and active duty service 
members. Given the need at Walter Reed National 
Military Medical Center’s pediatric department, 
these boys decided to focus their efforts 
at filling their high demand. 

I am honored to have these young men living 
in Virginia’s 10th Congressional District. I 
commend their hard work to help our veterans 
and their families who make so many sacrifices 
to preserve freedom and democracy for 
others. Their project is a reflection on the 
noble nature of the Boy Scouts of America’s 
continuous work to better our great nation. 
These young men not only embody charity 
and selflessness, but are also helping inspire 
it in others. 

The O’Cain family has also strived to help 
servicemen and women through their work 
with Military Operation Kindness, an organization 
which sends troops stationed overseas 
thank you letters and care packages. Astonishingly, 
the O’Cain family has sent over 600 
of these thank you notes this year alone. I 
cannot express how grateful I am to the 
O’Cain family and others like them who do so 
much to aid the members of our armed forces. 

Mr. Speaker, Joshua, Jonluke, and Caleb 
O’Cain and Alex Marjanovich exemplify a spirit 
of comradery and a dedication to serving others 
that makes America truly great. I would 
encourage my colleagues to join me in thanking 
these young men for their work to help the 
families of America’s heroes. I wish them all 
the best in their future endeavors. 

f 

HONORING ST. BARNABAS PARISH 

HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, as we in the 
Bronx and Westchester celebrate the installation 
of the seventh Pastor of the St. Barnabas 
Parish, I want to take a moment to celebrate 
both the Parish’s rich history and the wonderful 
people who make up its congregation. 

Established in 1910, the parish was placed 
under the patronage of St. Barnabas with the 
Reverend Michael Reilly as the first Pastor. 


E1566 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2016 

The Parish included what is known as the 
Woodlawn section of the Bronx and McLean 
Heights/Yonkers entity, the Church and Rectory 
were erected on the actual line separating 
the two cities. 

Monsignor George McWeeney was appointed 
the second Pastor and served until 
1965. Under his leadership, a new High 
School building and Chapel were erected. The 
third Pastor was Monsignor John J. Considine 
who served until his retirement in 1986. His 
twenty-one years as Pastor saw a phenomenal 
growth in the Parish. The fourth Pastor 
was Monsignor Timothy S. Collins who 
served until 1994 when he was appointed 
Pastor of Our Lady of the Rosary (The Mother 
Seton Shrine). During his eight years tenure, 
Monsignor supervised the remodeling of the 
Rectory, Parish Center and High School 
Chapel. 

The fifth Pastor Monsignor Francis X. Toner 
was appointed in 1994 until his death in 2003. 
Msgr. Toner re-organized the parish’s services 
to accommodate the changing demographics 
of the parish. Monsignor Edward M. Barry, the 
sixth Pastor, was appointed in 2004. On the 
occasion of the parish’s 100th anniversary 
Msgr. Barry conducted a fund raiser for the 
complete renovation of the church, as well as 
installing an elevator. 

And just this year, the St. Barnabas community 
has warmly welcomed Father Brendan A. 
Fitzgerald, who served as Pastor of Regina 
Coeli Parish, Hyde Park, 2012–2016. A native 
of Ireland, Fr. Fitzgerald has already had a 
very distinguished career and will no doubt 
bring great wisdom to the parish. I want to 
congratulate him on his installation, and congratulate 
the entire St. Barnabas community. 

f 

REMARKS BY FORMER NATO SEC


RETARY GENERAL ANDERS 

FOGH RASMUSSEN 

HON. STENY H. HOYER 

OF MARYLAND 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I include in the 
RECORD the text of a speech delivered by 
former Secretary General of NATO Anders 
Fogh Rasmussen, who is a dear friend and 
former Prime Minister of our ally Denmark. He 
spoke at the ‘‘Celebration of Democracy’’ dinner 
hosted jointly by the National Democratic 
Institute and International Republican Institute, 
and his remarks testify to the strong bonds between 
our nation and its NATO allies. He also 
reaffirms a core component of our foreign policy: 
that the world needs strong American 
leadership in the years ahead, just as it benefitted 
from our leadership in the twentieth century. 


I’m extremely pleased to see the International 
Republican Institute and the National 
Democratic Institute work so closely 
together in a bi-partisan manner to promote 
freedom and democracy. 

During the last 70 years, we’ve got used to 
a world where protectionism was replaced by 
free trade, closed societies were replaced by 
open societies, and dictatorship was replaced 
by democracy. During these 70 years the 
world has experienced an unprecedented era 
of peace, prosperity and progress. 

Now, we are living in an era where the fear 
of the consequences of globalization has led 

to stronger support for protectionism, fear 
over the influx of immigrants and refugees 
has led to stronger support for closed borders, 
the fear of chaos and weak leadership 
in democracies has led to stronger support 
for tough men and autocracy. 

Under these circumstances, there is a 
strong need for good men and women who 
will stand up for the basic ideas upon which 
we so successfully have built and developed 
our free societies. 

Secretary Albright and Senator McCain 
are such solid people. 

As American ambassador to the United Nations 
and as Secretary of State you, Madeleine 
Albright, was a staunch proponent of 
American engagement in the Balkans to stop 
the bloodshed. And it wasn’t until the United 
States took leadership that a lasting peace 
was created. 

As Secretary General of NATO, I asked you 
to lead the preparations for a new strategic 
concept. You and your group of experts did 
an outstanding job, and in 2010, we adopted a 
new strategic concept for NATO. 

Madeleine, you have always been a steadfast 
fighter for freedom and democracy. And 
your mood can always be read in the pins 
you’re wearing. In the book, ‘‘Read My 
Pins’’, you said: ‘‘I had this wonderful antique 
snake pin. So when we were dealing 
with Iraq, I wore the snake pin’’. You had 
balloons, butterflies and flowers to signify 
optimism and, when diplomatic talks were 
going slowly, crabs and turtles to indicate 
frustration. 

John, I’m so happy to also be with you tonight. 
First of all, congratulations on your 
re-election as US senator. Recently you 
turned eighty, but if we didn’t know, we 
wouldn’t believe it. You are still going 
strong, and you are setting an example for 
all of us to continue working as long as we 
can. 

We have met on several occasions in Europe. 
You have been a frequent guest at the 
Munich Security Conference, as leader of the 
US delegation and as a highly valued speaker. 
We have never doubted your position as 
one of the strongest American voices in 
favor of American global leadership and continued 
engagement in Europe. 

You were disappointed that NATO did not 
engage more in Syria. You also criticized 
me. Tonight I can tell you, I agreed with 
you. But I couldn’t get the allies to support 
even prudent planning for an operation. 

John, you have always remembered America’s 
friends and allies. I still recall how 
warmly you thanked me for my personal 
support for the United States and my country’s 
contribution to international military 
operations all over the world. 

John, we owe you great respect. And I 
would like to use this occasion to express my 
admiration and my gratitude for your service 
to the United States and to the world. 

We all know that Secretary Albright and 
Senator McCain belong to different political 
parties. But they are united in their desire 
to see freedom and democracy flourish in the 
world. Madeleine and John, you represent 
the very best in the American democracy: 
the bi-partisan support for American global 
leadership. 

Let me put it directly: the world needs a 
policeman. The only capable, reliable and desirable 
candidate for that position is the 
United States. We need determined American 
global leadership. 

The world is on fire. The Middle East is 
being torn up by war, terrorism and humanitarian 
catastrophes that have forced millions 
of people to flee. Europe is almost sinking 
under the refugee burden and internal 
political division. In North Africa, Libya has 
collapsed and become a breeding ground for 
terrorists who are spreading instability 

throughout the region. In Eastern Europe, a 
resurgent Russia has brutally attacked and 
grabbed land by force from Ukraine. China is 
flexing its muscle against its neighbors 
around the South China Sea. North Korea is 
a rogue state that threatens its neighbors 
and the United States with a nuclear attack. 

There is a link between the American reluctance 
to use hard power and this outbreak 
of fire. If the US retrenches and retreats or 
even if the world thinks that the US retreats, 
it leaves behind a vacuum that will 
be filled by the bad guys. 

If the United States withdraws to concentrate 
on ‘‘nation building at home’’, the 
forces fighting against liberal democracy 
and our way of life will gain ground. The US 
will be faced with stronger foes, weaker 
friends and a more insecure world. That 
would definitely not make America great. 

Appeasement doesn’t lead to peace. It just 
incites tyrants. Any failure to counter oppression 
will only invite further oppression. 
That is the lesson of the twentieth century— 
a lesson we must never forget. 

That’s why President Truman established 
a new, rules-based world order, centered 
around a series of international institutions 
and economic programs. He created an 
American led world order that set the stage 
for the Cold War. Truman elevated engagement 
to moral choice directly affecting 
every single American citizen, because it was 
based on American values. He said: ‘‘I believe 
that we must assist free peoples to work out 
their own destinies in their own way.’’ 

In 1961, President Kennedy expressed what 
is probably the strongest commitment to 
American global leadership ever given by a 
president of the United States: ‘‘Let every 
nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, 
that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, 
meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose 
any foe, to assure the survival and the 
success of liberty.’’ 

And President Reagan ended the Cold War 
peacefully due to his firm conviction that 
capitalism is superior to communism. He 
said: ‘‘America’s economic success is freedom’s 
success; it can be repeated a hundred 
times in a hundred nations’’. He was firmly 
convinced that peace does not come from 
weakness or retreat. It comes from economic 
and military superiority. Peace through 
strength. 

President Truman showed strong leadership 
and effective conduct by establishing 
the world order that for seven decades secured 
an unprecedented peace, development 
and wealth. President Kennedy came to 
stand as a beacon for the free world with his 
energetic and eloquent communication. And 
President Reagan led the United States and 
the world to the victory over Communism 
and oppression by his firm conviction of 
American exceptionalism. 

Hopefully, future US presidents will combine 
President Truman’s effective conduct, 
President Kennedy’s inspiring communication 
and President Reagan’s firm conviction. 
This would prepare the ground for strong 
American global leadership and a better and 
safer world. And make America great again. 

The United States is indispensable in its 
ability to protect and promote freedom and 
to prevent conflicts, to resolve conflicts and 
to help with post-conflict reconstruction. 
However, the United States should not be 
left to carry out that job alone: Smart American 
leadership should strive for alliance-
building. 

There is a need to create an overwhelming, 
credible, and strong democratic supremacy 
in order to counterbalance the rising and assertive 
autocracies. 

To create a stronger global democratic 
community, the American president should 
use his convening power to assemble the 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1567 

world’s true democracies in a strong ‘‘Alliance 
for Democracy’’. It would be a community 
of shared values, individual liberty, economic 
freedom, democracy, and the rule of 
law; a community that would bolster the 
identity and potency of democracy in a 
world where the forces of oppression are trying 
to regain ground. 

The Alliance for Democracy could help 
confront common security challenges, including 
terrorism. It could work to make the 
liberal capitalist democracies more prosperous, 
competitive, and attractive by promoting 
commerce, economic growth and job 
creation. It could help promote democracy 
directly through advice, support, and assistance. 
It could be a forum for the coordination 
of policies in other international organizations, 
including push for reforms to 
make the United Nations more effective. And 
the Alliance for Democracy could also be 
used for joint action, particularly humanitarian 
interventions. 

Many of us are inclined to believe that the 
community of values with the best story will 
win, that the West won the Cold War because 
the better world view triumphed, and the 
progress is inevitable. 

However, the rise of autocratic powers and 
Islamic radicalism reminds us that the victory 
of democratic powers over oppression is 
not inevitable and it needs not be lasting. 
History has taught us that we cannot be 
complacent. 

Thomas Jefferson reminded us that ‘‘the 
price of liberty is eternal vigilance’’. I will 
continue dreaming of the predominance of 
capitalism and liberal democracy. I will not 
accept the argument that certain people are 
not well suited for democracy. 

In a world that grows in freedom and democracy, 
people will have a chance to raise 
their families and live in peace and build a 
better future. The terrorists will lose their 
recruits and lose their sponsors and lose safe 
havens from which to launch new attacks, 
and there will be less room for tyranny and 
terror. 

But to ensure the progress of freedom and 
democracy, we must ensure an invincible 
global balance in favor of the forces of freedom 
and democracy. 

You have just had presidential elections. I 
don’t think the American people have mandated 
retreat. On the contrary, I believe that 
the outcome of the elections was a reaction 
to the receding freedom and democracy and 
the growing terrorism and autocracy that 
you have witnessed during recent years. 

I trust America and American leadership. 
Of course, also America makes mistakes. But 
who else should be the leader of the free 
world? I’m tempted to quote Winston 
Churchill who once said that the Americans 
will always do the right thing—after having 
tried everything else. 

Ladies and gentlemen, the world’s democracies 
must rise to the challenge. America 
must exercise determined global leadership. 

f 

HONORING ANDREA M. BROWN 

HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize a community servant who has for 
years worked to improve the lives of her 
friends and neighbors in Yonkers, Ms. Andrea 

M. Brown. 
Andrea was born and bred in Westchester, 
the eldest of eight children in Tarrytown, NY. 
She attended the Tarrytown public schools, 

Westchester Business School, and Westchester 
Community College. She began her 
community service when she was in her 
teens, in high school clubs and through her 
church. In 1970 she married and moved to 
Yonkers and began her community service in 
1974 by volunteering at her oldest daughter’s 
pre-kindergarten class at School 25 and joining 
the Parent’s Group at the Nepperhan 
Community Center, which led to her becoming 
a Board Member and eventually Board President. 


Andrea’s volunteer work only grew from 
there. She has served her community as 
President of the Yonkers Branch of the 
NAACP; Trustee for the Yonkers Board of 
Education; 1st Vice President of the Empire 
State Federation of Women’s Club, Westchester 
Region; Member of the Yonkers Mayor’s 
African American Advisory Board; and 
Vice President of Aquehung Women’s Democratic 
Club, just to name some of her work. 
She has also received numerous awards for 
her efforts, including the Martin Luther King 
Commission Profile Award; the Bethany Lutheran 
Church Woman of the Year Award; the 
Women’s Civic Club of Nepperhan Woman of 
the Year Award; The Nepperhan Community 
Center Community Service Award; and the 
Dominican Cultural Association Community 
Service Award. 

But for all of her accomplishments, Andrea’s 
greatest treasure was always family. She was 
married to the late Bernard G. Brown, Sr. and 
is the mother of two adult children, three 
grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. 

The Yonkers Democratic Committee is honoring 
Andrea this year at their Annual Road to 
Victory Dinner. Congratulations to her on this 
great honor. 

f 

SHIPPENSBURG UNIVERSITY 

FIELD HOCKEY WINS DIVISION II 

NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 

HON. LOU BARLETTA 

OF PENNSYLVANIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. BARLETTA. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor 
to recognize the Shippensburg University field 
hockey team as the 2016 NCAA Division II 
National Champions. Shippensburg, which is a 
university in my district, has always been 
about serving the educational, social and cultural 
needs of their students, both in the classroom 
and beyond. The Red Raiders defeated 
Long Island University Post by a score of 2 to 
1 on Sunday, November 20, 2016, capping a 
20 win season that was dedicated to former 
student-athlete and coach, Amanda Strous. 

All season long, a number 22 jersey hung in 
the Robb Sports Complex in honor of Amanda 
Strous, a former student-athlete and coach at 
Shippensburg who tragically passed away before 
the start of the 2016 season. The mantra 
‘‘Live, Laugh, Love’’ and hashtag ‘‘FlyHigh22’’ 
served as inspiration for the team as they 
sought to ‘‘Leave a Legacy’’ in honor of Amanda. 


Shippensburg’s emotional season concluded 
on a cold, fall day at the W.B. Mason Stadium 
at Stonehill College in Easton, MA. Winning 
three consecutive games as the lower seed, 
the No. 3 seeded Red Raiders were lifted to 
victory by goals from junior forward Emily Bar


nard and senior forward Katelyn Grazan. Finishing 
the year as the national leader in goals 
against average (0.46), save percentage 
(.899) and shutouts (14), Shippensburg is only 
the second team in tournament history to 
emerge from their region as a No. 3 seed and 
win a national championship. 

Mr. Speaker, it is with admiration and respect 
that I congratulate the Shippensburg 
University field hockey team for winning the 
2016 NCAA Division II National Championship. 
Such an emotional season could not 
have a better ending, and I am confident that 
they will continue to achieve great things both 
on the field and in the classroom. On behalf 
of my constituents, I wish the Red Raiders all 
the best as they enjoy this accomplishment 
and look forward to next season. 

f 

H. CON. RES. 165 
HON. DOUG COLLINS 

OF GEORGIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, 
today I rise to commend the House on passage 
of H. Con. Res. 165, which reaffirms 
Congress’ approach to Israel and Palestine. 
This bipartisan resolution supports the longstanding 
approach of the United States as a 
facilitator of bilateral negotiations between 
Israel and Palestine. It properly recognizes 
that a lasting resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict will only come about through direct, 
mutual negotiations between the two parties. 
Attempts by Congress or other outside 
bodies to interfere with bilateral negotiations 
by establishing parameters or imposing solutions 
on Israel and Palestine will inevitably 
complicate the situation and delay its peaceful 
resolution. 

Since 1972, the United States has opposed 
and vetoed 42 United Nations Security Council 
resolutions dictating binding parameters on the 
peace process. The current Administration has 
time and again refused to aid Israel by tolerating 
Palestinian threats, harming the U.S.-
Israeli relationship, and undermining Israel’s 
peacemaking efforts. Israel is our strongest 
ally in the Middle East, and I believe the country 
deserves our full support. I have consistently 
demanded this Administration recognize 
the importance of Israel, and today’s resolution 
provided another opportunity to affirm my 
commitment to our relationship with that nation. 
I strongly urge continued opposition to efforts 
by the UN Security Council to force 
agreements that are one-sided or anti-Israel. 

Israel has continuously demonstrated its 
willingness to coexist with its neighbors, and 
the United States must promote direct talks 
between Israelis and Palestinians, not the 
international intervention of the United Nations 
or other bodies. Through passage of this resolution, 
the House of Representatives publicly 
reaffirmed our support for bilateral negotiations 
between Israel and Palestine, demonstrated 
the strength of our relationship with Israel, and 
rebuked faulty attempts to impose the terms of 
peace. 

I was proud to join my colleagues in support 
of this important resolution. 


E1568 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2016 

ROBIN PERKINS NAMED WOMAN 
OF THE YEAR BY THE GREATER 
MANASSAS CHRISTMAS PARADE 
COMMITTEE 

HON. BARBARA COMSTOCK 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to 
congratulate Robin Perkins on being named 
Woman of the Year by the Greater Manassas 
Christmas Parade Committee. Mrs. Perkins 
has diligently served the Manassas community 
for many years and is more than deserving of 
this honor. 

A lifelong resident of Manassas and devoted 
community leader, Mrs. Perkins has served 
her hometown for 33 years in the City of Manassas 
treasurer’s office. After fifteen years of 
service in that office, she was elected to serve 
as Treasurer for the City of Manassas. Now, 
after over eighteen years of service as Treasurer, 
Mrs. Perkins is entering into a well-deserved 
retirement. 

Though she is leaving her post as Treasurer, 
Mrs. Perkins will remain a fixture of the 
Manassas community. She serves as a scout 
leader, a youth bowling director, and has been 
a long-time volunteer with the city schools. 
Her lifelong dedication to her community is an 
inspiration and I’m proud to represent such a 
wonderful woman. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join 
me in congratulating Robin Perkins for being 
named Woman of the Year by the Greater 
Manassas Christmas Parade Committee. It is 
a privilege to represent her and I wish her all 
the best in her future endeavors. 

f 

HONORING THE LIFE OF DEBRA 
SAUNDERS-WHITE 

HON. ROBERT C. ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to mourn the loss of one of our nation’s 
finest public servants, Dr. Debra Saunders-
White. She was a good friend and a tireless 
advocate for increasing access to higher education 
for all students. This past Saturday, 
Debra Saunders-White passed away, and I 
would like to take a brief moment to celebrate 
her life and legacy. 

For many years, Debra Saunders-White was 
a leading voice in education as she fought to 
strengthen historical black colleges and universities 
and other minority serving institutions. 
As a first generation college graduate, Debra 
understood both the opportunities afforded by 
higher education and the many challenges 
that accompany students as they attempt to 
access and afford a higher education. 

A native of Hampton, Virginia, she attended 
the University of Virginia before receiving her 
Masters of Business Administration from the 
College of William and Mary and her Doctorate 
in Higher Education Administration from 
George Washington University. After completing 
her education, Mrs. Saunders-White 

spent 15 years in the private sector, working 
for IBM as a systems engineer before 
transitioning to marketing. 

From 1999 until 2006, Dr. Saunders-White 
served as the Assistant Provost of Technology 
at Hampton University. While at Hampton, she 
designed and implemented the university’s 
first information technology organization. Her 
efforts made Hampton University the first 
HBCU in the nation to join the Internet2 community, 
where they earned the ‘‘most wired 
university’’ title by Forbes Magazine and the 
Princeton Review. 

Ultimately, Dr. Saunders-White left Hampton 
University and spent some time at the University 
of North Carolina Wilmington (UNCW) as 
the Vice Chancellor and later served as the 
Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Department 
of Education in President Obama’s administration. 
In 2011, Mrs. Saunders-White became 
the 11th chancellor of North Carolina Central 
University. During her tenure, Dr. Saunders-
White was held in high regard by all of her 
colleagues and students. Known for her strong 
vision and leadership, Debra was extremely 
dedicated to ensuring the success of the students 
at NCCU while she carried out her vision 
for growth at the university. 

Mr. Speaker, the education and NCCU communities 
have lost a tremendous advocate for 
our nation’s students. I want to extend my 
deepest sympathies to her two children, Elizabeth 
Paige and Cecil III; her mother, Irene 
Saunders; her brothers, Roger, Ralph and 
Kyle Saunders, and the rest of her family, 
friends, and countless students she positively 
impacted during her life. 

f 

HONORING THE LIFE AND WORK 
OF NORTH CAROLINA CENTRAL 
UNIVERSITY CHANCELLOR DR. 
DEBRA SAUNDERS-WHITE 

HON. G.K. BUTTERFIELD 

OF NORTH CAROLINA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to honor the life and work of Dr. Debra 
Saunders-White, a dear friend, nationally recognized 
academic, and the eleventh Chancellor 
of North Carolina Central University in 
Durham, North Carolina. Dr. Saunders-White 
transitioned to her heavenly home on Saturday, 
November 26, 2016 after a courageous 
battle with cancer. She will be greatly missed 
by the entire NCCU family and all who knew 
her. 

Dr. Saunders-White was born in Hampton, 
Virginia on January 8, 1957. As a first-generation 
college student, she received her undergraduate 
training at the University of Virginia 
in Charlottesville. Graduating in the Class of 
1979 with a Bachelor’s degree in history, Dr. 
Saunders-White went on to receive a Master’s 
of Business Administration from the College of 
William and Mary (in 1993) and a Doctorate in 
Higher Education Administration from George 
Washington University (in 2004). 

The massive outpouring of accolades that 
arose upon Dr. Saunders-White’s passing 
speaks to her character and abilities. She was 
installed as the eleventh chancellor of my 

alma mater, North Carolina Central University, 
on June 1, 2013. And, I might add, she became 
the first permanent woman chancellor in 
the University’s 106-year history. 

Prior to assuming her duties at NCCU, she 
served as the acting Assistant Secretary for 
the Office of Postsecondary Education at the 

U.S. Department of Education in the Obama 
Administration under Secretary Arne Duncan. 
Dr. Saunders-White joined the Department of 
Education in May of 2011 as the Deputy Assistant 
Secretary for higher education programs. 
Throughout her tenure as NCCU’s Chancellor, 
Dr. Saunders-White made many important 
contributions to the University, including 
increasing the freshman-to-sophomore retention 
rate from 69 percent to 80 percent; growing 
faculty and staff annual giving from 19 percent 
to 76 percent; creating the Triangle 
area’s first dual-enrollment, residential transfer 
program known as Eagle Connect, in conjunction 
with Durham Technical Community College; 
and opening a Fabrication Laboratory in 
2015 that is part of a select number of such 
laboratories at HBCUs. 

Always committed to uplifting Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities, Dr. Saunders-
White was named a ‘‘cyber star’’ by 
Black Issues in Higher Education and has 
published articles and whitepapers on the role 
of technology in learning. At NCCU, she was 
instrumental in raising scholarship funds for 
students and prioritized innovative academic 
instruction to prepare students of color to be 
competitive in the global marketplace. 

Beyond her academic contributions, what is 
more illuminating of Dr. Saunders-White’s stellar 
character was the way she connected with 
students at the university. She took a personal 
interest in the scholarship and mentorship program 
by encouraging ‘‘Eagle Excellence’’ that 
went beyond success in the classroom. Her 
dedication to scholarship and preserving the 
legacy of our Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities earned her the respect and admiration 
of students and colleagues alike. 

It is dedicated leaders like Dr. Debra Saunders-
White whose passionate commitment to 
helping all students succeed will leave a lasting 
mark on the future of our students and our 
country. NCCU (and all of those connected 
with institutions of higher learning) have lost a 
great educator and friend. Mr. Speaker, the 
Nation has lost a great educator. 

Dr. Saunders-White is survived by two children, 
Elizabeth Paige White and Cecil White, 
III; her mother, Mrs. Irene Saunders; and her 
brothers, Roger, Ralph, and Kyle. I hope the 
outpouring of love shared by the community 
has been a comfort to Dr. Saunders-White’s 
family. 

Today, we remember Dr. Debra Saunders-
White and reflect on her motto ‘Eagle Excellence.’ 
That motto, which Dr. Saunders-White 
embodied in her work each day, will remain 
embedded in the fabric of the University for 
generations to come. 

This is indeed a solemn occasion. But it’s 
also an occasion to celebrate. Dr. Saunders-
White fought the good fight, kept the faith, and 
was a friend to so many and we are all thankful 
that she was able to touch so many lives. 
I ask my colleagues to join me in celebrating 
the life, work, and legacy of Chancellor Debra 
Saunders-White. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1569 

HONORING WILLIAM STALLINGS by the Gethsemane Baptist Association and lege scholarships for local students, doing 
retired as Pastor of the Saint Mark Baptist home repairs free of charge, providing free 
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL Church in Columbia, South Carolina. meals to families in need, and raising money 
During my tenure on the staff of Governor for many other charitable causes, such as

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor one of Yonkers’ most active and dedicated 
community members, William Stallings, 
who is being honored at this year’s Yonkers 
Democratic Committee Annual Road to Victory 
Dinner. 

Originally a product of Charleston, South 
Carolina, Bill attended public school and became 
very active in the civil rights movement 
in his junior and senior years of high school. 
Upon completion of Burke High School he 
began working at the Citadel, the military college 
of South Carolina. After a year, he applied 
to Tuskegee Institute in Alabama and 
was accepted. At Tuskegee, he enrolled in the 
Air Force ROTC and was commissioned 2nd 
Lieutenant upon graduation. His bars were 
pinned on him by his grandmother and General 
Daniel ‘‘Chappy’’ James, and while in the 
Air Force, he reached the rank of Captain. 

It was a recruitment by Pepsi Cola that ultimately 
brought Bill to Westchester County, 
where he has remained ever since. He became 
active in the local Democratic Party in 
1974 by engaging in local voter registration 
drives, and later became a District Leader. He 
is a member of the NAACP and is very active 
in his church, Greater Centennial AME Zion 
Church. He has been an officer of the church 
for over 25 years, was President of the Greater 
Centennial Federal Credit Union for over 20 
years, and is a founding member of the Greater 
Centennial Community Development Corporation. 
Bill has also served on the Board of 
Directors of the Human Development Services 
of Westchester (HDSW) for the past 20 years 
and on the Yonkers Democratic City Executive 
Committee for over 20 years. 

Few have done more to help their local 
community thrive than Bill Stallings. He is 
most deserving of this wonderful recognition. 

f 

TRIBUTE TO DR. HIRAM SPAIN, 
JR. 

HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN 

OF SOUTH CAROLINA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate 
a great American, and outstanding 
South Carolinian, Reverend Dr. Hiram Spain, 
Jr. Dr. Spain, who was simply Hiram to me 
when we shared classes and hallways at 
South Carolina State College, is retiring from 
public service. Dr. Spain served as Executive 
Secretary of the Baptist Educational and Missionary 
Convention of South Carolina since 
his election in 2000 until his recent retirement. 

Dr. Hiram Spain, Jr. is a native of Conway, 
South Carolina. In addition to graduating with 
honors from South Carolina State University, 
he received the degree of Juris Doctor from 
Howard University. He did additional studies at 
the University of South Carolina, Morris College 
Extension and the Columbia International 
Seminary. He is presently pursuing the Master 
of Divinity degree at the Lutheran Theological 
Southern Seminary. Dr. Spain was ordained 

John West, I brought Dr. Spain on board 
where he headed the program that became 
the state’s first Office of Rural Development to 
outstanding success. He has served as the 
Chief Executive Officer of the Columbia Urban 
League and as the first Black Bureau Chief of 
the South Carolina Department of Social Services. 


Dr. Spain serves his community in several 
civic capacities, including the Board of The 
United Black Fund of the Midlands, The Executive 
Board of the Gethsemane Baptist Association, 
The Board of the South Carolina 
Christian Action Council, past Board Member 
of the Communities in Schools of South Carolina, 
member of the Interdenominational Ministerial 
Alliance of Greater Columbia, Board 
Member of the I.D. Quincy Newman Institute 
for social change at the University of South 
Carolina, Board Member of Partnership, South 
Carolina, and a life member of Kappa Alpha 
Psi Fraternity, Inc. 

He has received numerous awards and honors 
for his civic and community service and 
was recently honored by the City of Columbia 
and the Midlands Authority for Conventions, 
Sports and Tourism for his outstanding service 
and leadership. He has never been reluctant 
to give of his time and energies to civic, professional 
and community service organizations. 
His favorite Bible verse is Psalm 121 
verses 1 and 2, ‘‘I will lift up mine eyes to the 
Hills, from whence cometh my help. My help 
cometh from the Lord, which made heaven 
and earth.’’ 

Dr. Spain is married to the former Doris 
Bush, a Benedict College graduate and retired 
teacher at W.A. Perry Middle School. They are 
the parents of two adult children, both of 
whom are social work administrators. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask that you and this Congress 
join me in wishing this outstanding 
South Carolinian, and longtime personal 
friend, the Reverend Dr. Hiram Spain, Jr., a 
long and productive retirement. 

f 

IN RECOGNITION OF THE 85TH AN


NIVERSARY OF THE FAIRFAX 

ROTARY CLUB 

HON. BARBARA COMSTOCK 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise to 
honor the Fairfax Rotary Club on their 85th 
Anniversary of community service this year. 
The Fairfax Rotary Club was chartered in 
1931 and has grown from the original 16 
members to 75 members today. This organization 
brings enormous benefit to the City of 
Fairfax and surrounding communities. I am 
very grateful for Fairfax Rotary Club’s continued 
efforts to provide humanitarian service 
and assistance in the 10th Congressional District. 


The Fairfax Rotary Club holds weekly meetings 
and organizes numerous charitable 
events in order to benefit the community. Their 
activities range from fundraising to acts of 
hands-on community service. Some examples 
of their generous deeds include creating col-

polio and access to clean water. 

The members of the Fairfax Rotary Club are 
true pillars of their community, and I am proud 
to represent such service-minded citizens. 
This organization has a history of providing a 
setting that fosters fellowship between its 
members and that enables them to have a 
positive impact in the world. I applaud the 
Fairfax City Council’s decision to honor this organization 
by declaring September 25th Fairfax 
Rotary Club Day in the city. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join in 
recognizing the 85th Anniversary of the Fairfax 
Rotary Club and thanking its members for all 
of the selfless community service work they 
undertake. I hope that the members of this 
service organization will continue to find success 
in their endeavors for many years to 
come. 

f 

HONORING JUDGE TODD J. 
CAMPBELL 

HON. JIM COOPER 

OF TENNESSEE 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. COOPER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize Judge Todd J. Campbell on his retirement 
from the federal bench. 

A graduate of Vanderbilt University and the 
University of Tennessee College of Law, 
Judge Campbell started his legal career in private 
practice. After the 1992 election, he 
joined President-elect Bill Clinton’s transition 
team and later became counsel to Vice President 
Al Gore. 

In 1995, President Clinton nominated Judge 
Campbell to fill a vacant seat on the U.S. District 
Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. 
Judge Campbell was confirmed the same year 
by the U.S. Senate, becoming one of America’s 
youngest federal judges in modern times. 
He eventually was elevated to chief judge, 
serving many years in that role. 

Judge Campbell has led a distinguished career 
on the federal bench, and he is a pillar of 
our community. For example, he has led more 
than 100 naturalization ceremonies, often relating 
his own family immigration history to 
Middle Tennessee’s newest citizens. 

Federal Public Defender Henry Martin best 
captured Judge Campbell in a recent letter to 
the editor published in The Tennessean newspaper: 


Judge Todd Campbell’s announced retirement 
as a United States District Judge last 
week was sad news to anyone interested in 
justice in this community. 

I am confident that every lawyer and litigant 
experienced what I saw there for 20-plus 
years: an exceedingly well-prepared judge 
who favored neither side, but treated all who 
appeared before him with respect, courtesy 
and usually a smile. I always warned lawyers 
about to appear in Judge Campbell’s court 
for the first time to be prepared: ‘‘he will 
have read every case you cited, that your adversary 
cited and ask you about cases you 
missed that he had found. Then he would listen.’’ 


The challenge of determining what the law 
is in a particular situation and then applying 
it fairly to complex facts, where the outcome 


E1570 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2016 

has a life-changing impact on the people in 
the case is not only intellectually demanding, 
but emotionally and physically exhausting. 
It can also be lonely and thankless work 
And yet, Judge Campbell always took the 
time to thank the lawyers who took indigent 
defense appointments and was quick to proclaim 
how important their work was to the 
preservation of constitutional liberties. 

The founders of this country knew that the 
viability of a society operating under the 
rule of law depended on the selection of 
judges who had the intellect to decipher the 
law, the common sense to shape it to fit 
human behavior and the courage and integrity 
to decide controversial issues regardless 
of popular sentiment. 

For better than 20 years Judge Campbell 
gave exactly that to this community. We are 
the better for that service and owe him our 
utmost gratitude. 

Henry A. Martin, Federal Public Defender, 
Nashville 37203. 

Judge Campbell has dedicated himself to 
the federal bench every day he has served. I 
want to thank Judge Campbell, his wife, Margaret, 
and their children, Seth and Holt. Judge 
Campbell represents the very best of our judicial 
traditions, and I thank him for his long and 
patriotic service. 

f 

HONORING WILLIAM SCRIBNER 

HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
honor the life of an amazing artist and a true 
friend, William Scribner. Bill as he was better 
known brought so much light and beauty to 
the Bronx through his music, and his contributions 
to our borough will never be forgotten. 

Renowned as one of New York’s finest bassoonists, 
Bill always looked for ways to share 
his amazing gift with the world and spread his 
love of music to others. In 1972, he founded 
the Bronx Arts Ensemble, the premier professional 
music organization in the Bronx. With a 
mission to ‘‘nourish the arts in the Bronx, serving 
its diverse communities and developing 
audiences through arts education and musical 
performances of the highest professional 
standard,’’ the organization has touched the 
lives of thousands of people over the years 
with their unique performances and beautiful 
shows. This is largely due in part to Bill’s exceptional 
work, and the amazing assemblage 
of talent he nurtured and put together. 

In addition to presenting over 100 concerts 
a year, the Bronx Arts Ensemble also specializes 
in an arts-in-education programming in 
over 40 schools in the Bronx and beyond with 
instruction in music, drama, dance, visual arts, 
capoeira, drumming and more. 

Yet for all of Bill’s incredible work bringing 
the arts to the Bronx, his first love was always 
his family. The beloved husband of Marsha 
Heller and loving father of Andrew Scribner, 
Bill is also survived by sister Janice Freeman, 
cousin Nancy Wirth, stepson Joshua Marantz, 
and first wife Louise Scribner. 

Bill brought so much joy to our community, 
and enriched the lives of so many. Through 
the Bronx Arts Ensemble his legacy shall forever 
live on, and for that I am very thankful. 
It is an honor to celebrate his amazing life 
here today. 

IN RECOGNITION OF FRAN 
PAVLEY OF AGOURA HILLS 

HON. TED LIEU 

OF CALIFORNIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. TED LIEU of California. Mr. Speaker, I 
rise today to celebrate the retirement of my 
friend Senator Fran Pavley. I had the honor of 
serving with Fran in both the State Assembly 
and State Senate. Fran is an extraordinary individual 
who strove to ensure her community, 
state, and nation’s best interests came first. 
Her legislative accomplishments are legendary. 


Over the last 14 years, Fran became a titan 
when it came to developing innovative climate 
change solutions. Her laws elevated California’s 
status as a global leader in fighting climate 
change and promoting sustainable clean 
energy. Her bill AB 32, of which I was a coauthor, 
became a model for climate change 
legislation in other states, nationally and internationally. 


With California experiencing severe drought, 
Fran championed smart water policy by encouraging 
conservation, recycling, storm water 
capture, and ground water clean-up. Fran also 
passed legislation that increased fuel efficiency 
standards in California. Her law was 
then modeled at the federal level. 

Fran also introduced legislation to encourage 
more college students to become teachers. 
In 2015, California had 43,000 teacher vacancies 
and one of the highest student-teacher 
ratios in the country. To reduce this burden, 
Fran presented legislation that would reinstate 
a loan forgiveness program to motivate more 
students to pursue a career in teaching. 

In addition to Fran’s exemplary record of 
protecting the environment and supporting 
teachers, she also passed a law that allowed 
women to receive up to a 12 month supply of 
birth control prescriptions at one time. Passage 
of this law was lauded by many health 
care providers because it reduced the stress 
of having women acquire birth control on a 
monthly or quarterly basis. 

These tremendous accomplishments cut 
across various fields and demonstrate Fran’s 
enormous impact. Fran’s legacy in the community, 
state and country will be felt for generations 
to come. 

Actually, this is Fran’s second retirement. 
Prior to serving 14 years in the legislature, 
Fran was a beloved middle school teacher for 
28 years. 

After retiring, Fran will continue to spearhead 
the creation of the first urban and largest 
wildlife crossing at Liberty Canyon in Agoura 
Hills. I wish Fran, her husband, and children 
many years of happiness and good health. 

f 

LIBYA 

HON. TED POE 

OF TEXAS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. POE of Texas. Mr. Speaker, for six 
months, the U.S.-backed troops of the interim 
Libyan Government of National Accord has 
been fighting street by street to retake the 
ISIS stronghold of Sirte on the Libyan coast. 

ISIS seized control of the city in early 2015 
and extended its control along about 155 
miles of Libya’s coastline. That means that 
ISIS wields its influence over a territory roughly 
the distance from Houston to San Antonio. 

How did the U.S. get here? How did Libya 
become an incubator for all stripes of terrorists? 


In 2008, U.S. military leaders were calling 
Libya a top U.S. ally in combating international 
terrorism. Qaddafi realized that his regime was 
the target of terrorism, and he changed course 
from supporting terrorists in the 1980s to siding 
with the U.S. against the terrorist threat. 

However, in 2011, in the midst of a rebellion 
against the Qaddafi regime, the U.S. decided 
to intervene and establish a no-fly zone to aid 
the Libyan rebels. 

Under the safety of the no-fly zone the U.S. 
imposed, Islamist terrorist groups long subdued 
under Qaddafi’s regime sprung up and 
amassed weapons, training, and military training. 


Qaddafi was ultimately killed in October 
2011. Within days, NATO and U.S. forces 
packed up and left Libya to its own devices. 

America’s only Libya policy at the time was 
to remove Qaddafi—there was little planning 
regarding what to do the day after. The U.S. 
opened the Pandora’s box and looked away. 

Almost immediately after Qaddafi’s ouster, 
Libya spiraled into chaos. Long simmering political, 
regional, and ethnic divisions suddenly 
emerged and set Libya on a path towards disaster. 
The country has never recovered. 

Even the Administration has admitted its 
role in Libya’s failure. Earlier this year, the 
President admitted that there was no plan for 
post-Qaddafi Libya, describing it as his biggest 
regret as President. 

Libya has become a regional and international 
security threat due to this Administration’s 
lack of planning. ISIS and al-Qaeda are 
the main beneficiaries. 

Al-Qaeda’s Libyan affiliate, Ansar al-
Shariah, emerged shortly after Qaddafi’s death 
and has since become deeply entrenched in 
the country. 

They have successfully filled the void the 

U.S. helped create by providing social services—
building schools and providing medical 
care. 
But they did not stop there. They recruited, 
armed, and trained terrorist fighters intent on 
carrying out the group’s ultimate goal: imposing 
Islamic law on the country. 

Ansar al-Shariah fighters were among those 
who ultimately attacked the U.S. diplomatic 
compound in Benghazi in 2012, killing Ambassador 
Christopher Stevens and three of his 
colleagues. 

Since then, things have gotten worse. ISIS 
announced the establishment of a Libyan affiliate 
at the end of 2014 and soon began consolidating 
its power around Sirte and expanding 
east, west, and south. 

America should not fool itself into believing 
that once Sirte is liberated the ISIS threat is 
over. For close to a year now, ISIS has been 
redirecting recruits and even senior leaders to 
Libya. It has been laying the seeds for what 
many have called a ‘‘fallback Caliphate,’’ 
where it could retreat to in case it is pushed 
out of Syria and Iraq. 

Pentagon estimates from earlier this year 
suggested that the group’s ranks in Libya 
have swelled to nearly 7,000 fighters. 

Liberating Sirte will simply transform the 
ISIS threat in Libya from a concentrated one 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1571 

to a dispersed one. They have fanned out 
throughout the country and will continue to exploit 
the political mess in Libya. 

Libya will unfortunately remain a terrorist 
foothold for years to come. This is the legacy 
of the current Administration in North Africa. 

The mess the U.S. have left there has 
spread throughout the region. It endangers 
Egyptian allies to the east, and the weapons 
unleashed with Qaddafi’s fall have fueled terrorism 
in places like Syria, Nigeria, and the 
Sinai Peninsula bordering Israel. 

The United States’ airstrike campaign in 
support of the Libyan forces retaking Sirte is 
only a small step. Until the U.S. can devise a 
truly comprehensive long-term strategy to stabilize 
Libya and defeat the terrorist groups hiding 
there, Libya will continue to threaten regional 
and international security. Treating the 
symptoms while ignoring the underlying disease 
will not solve the problem. 

The U.S. forcibly overthrew a regime in 
Libya, creating chaos that led to a failed state 
where terrorists flourished and thousands of 
Libyans died. The U.S. now has a responsibility 
to work towards a stabilizing solution in 
Libya. Going forward, the U.S. should be 
much more cautious before it helps overthrow 
another regime. 

f 

IN RECOGNITION OF CONGRESS


MEN ROBERT HURT, RANDY 

FORBES, AND SCOTT RIGELL 

HON. BARBARA COMSTOCK 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today 
to honor three colleagues of mine who have 
served their Districts and the Commonwealth 
of Virginia with distinction. Congressman ROBERT 
HURT from Virginia’s Fifth District, Congressman 
RANDY FORBES from Virginia’s 
Fourth District, and Congressman SCOTT 
RIGELL from Virginia’s Second District have 
dedicated years of their lives to public service. 

Since coming to Congress in 2001, RANDY 
FORBES, as Chairman of the House Armed 
Services’ Seapower and Projection Forces 
Subcommittee, has worked to build a stronger 
defense for America to help ensure the safety 
of our nation and has worked with all of us to 
help our veterans. He also made it a priority 
to foster partnerships with local officials and 
other community leaders, earning a reputation 
for stellar constituent service as a representative. 


Congressman SCOTT RIGELL has more active 
duty and retired military personnel in his 
district than any other district and has made it 
a priority to assist them. He had a major role 
in keeping all East Coast aircraft carriers 
based in Norfolk. 

I had the distinct pleasure of serving with 
Congressman HURT in the Virginia General 
Assembly, where he served beginning in 2001 
before running for Congress, and he is a gentleman, 
statesman, constitutional scholar, and 
most important of all a true friend to the Commonwealth 
of Virginia. ROBERT has been a 
leader here in Washington with his great work 
on the Financial Services Committee and striving 
to help our small businesses as well as 
veterans, to name just some of the ways he 
has worked for a better life for those in his 
District. 

While the Commonwealth of Virginia loses 
three committed public servants in this body, 
we all greatly appreciate the years they have 
put into advancing the priorities of their constituents 
and the lives of all those in Virginia 
and in our country. 

I know they will continue to serve the public 
in a variety of ways. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me 
in thanking and honoring these gentlemen for 
their service to their Districts and for representing 
their constituents and the Commonwealth 
in which we call home. 

f 

PERSONAL EXPLANATION 

HON. ROBERT HURT 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. HURT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I was 
unavoidably detained. Had I been present, I 
would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 590, 
and YEA on Roll Call No. 591. 

f 

HONORING LOUIS A. PICANI 

HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, as the son of an 
ironworker and former union member myself, I 
know firsthand just how critical our area’s 
union members are to our country’s shared 
prosperity and success. This year, the Yonkers 
Democratic Committee is honoring Louis 
Picani, a dedicated union member who has 
fought for working men and women in Westchester 
for over 30 years. 

Louis has spent his entire career as a visionary, 
fighting for workers’ rights, fair wages 
and benefits, workplace safety, and the right 
to organize. He has been a dedicated union 
member since he joined Teamsters Local 456 
over 30 years ago, where his natural leadership 
ability quickly emerged and enabled him 
to be appointed Shop Steward for the City of 
Yonkers Department of Public Works in 1992. 
In 1994, Louis became a Trustee of the Teamsters 
Health and Welfare Fund. In 2005, he 
was elected as a Teamsters Local 456 Trustee 
and appointed as a Teamsters Local 456 
Business Agent. Louis has been a member of 
Joint Council 16’s New York Teamsters Political 
Action Committee, and in 2016, was elected 
President and Principal Officer of Teamsters 
Local 456. He also serves as Vice President 
of the Westchester Putnam Central Labor 
Body. 

But Louis’ good works extend beyond his 
labor advocacy. Incredibly, he is also a licensed 
drug and alcohol counselor. 

Louis continues to represent Teamsters 
members and all labor organizations who 
serve our work force so proudly. He is incredibly 
deserving of this honor and recognition, 
and on behalf of the 16th Congressional District 
I want to congratulate him on this special 
occasion. 

CELEBRATING THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE CIVIL AIR PATROL 

HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY 

OF ILLINOIS 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I rise 
today to recognize the 75th anniversary of the 
Civil Air Patrol, celebrated on December 1st 
and to honor its all-volunteer members. Since 
1941, volunteers have lent their talents in 
dedicated service to protect Americans and 
our nation. Their work is deeply appreciated. 

The Civil Air Patrol came into existence just 
six days before the events of Pearl Harbor 
and was comprised of many civilian aviators, 
including women and African Americans who 
were not allowed to fly for the military at that 
time. Members flew in support of defense 
forces and provided the military with professional 
and cost-efficient assistance, which they 
have continued to provide ever since—chartered 
by Congress as non-combative, humanitarian 
force in 1946, becoming the official Auxiliary 
to the U.S. Air Force in 1948, and most 
recently becoming part of the U.S. Air Force’s 
Total Force in 2015. 

The Search and Rescue efforts of the Civil 
Air Patrol are credited with saving an average 
of 75 lives every year and their Disaster Relief 
efforts and ability to work closely with partner 
organizations have been vital to our nation’s 
security and wellbeing. Their service was particularly 
notable following the terrible events of 
September 11th, 2001, Hurricane Katrina, and 
Hurricane Sandy. 

I am proud to call myself a member of the 
Civil Air Patrol. Earlier this week, I was presented 
with the grade of Lieutenant Colonel 
and membership in the Patrol’s Congressional. 
Squadron. The distinction was presented to 
me by Lieutenant Colonel Harold Damron and 
two wonderful young members of the Civil Air 
Patrol from my district, Cadet Second Lieutenant 
Laivi Grossman and Cadet Airman Basic 
Nancy Kahdeman. I thank them and the entire 
Civil Air Patrol for this opportunity. 

The organization’s Cadet Program has been 
a tremendous resource to this nation, providing 
leadership training to youth, ages 
twelve through twenty-one. The Program promotes 
education in the fields of Science, 
Technology, Engineering, and Math, both for 
participants within the program and their local 
communities. This is done with a focus on 
Aerospace and Aviation, developing a passion 
for them in our younger citizens and ensuring 
our preeminence in these areas as well as 
Cyberspace. I believe this effort to be especially 
important now, as our nation’s future and 
security depend upon the ability of the next 
generation to lead global progress in these 
areas. 

Civil Air Patrol volunteer professionals serve 
in every state of the nation and as nonprofit 
resources within thousands of communities. I 
am proud to support the work that these men 
and women continue to do, and I am very 
pleased to be celebrating this milestone anniversary 
with them. 


E1572 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks December 1, 2016 

IN HONOR OF THE 155TH ANNIVER


SARY OF THE BATTLE OF 

BALL’S BLUFF 

HON. BARBARA COMSTOCK 

OF VIRGINIA 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mrs. COMSTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I would like 
to honor the 155th Anniversary of the Battle of 
Ball’s Bluff fought in Loudoun County, Virginia, 
on October 21st, 1861. Being one of the earliest 
battles of the American Civil War, Ball’s 
Bluff had an enormous impact on military affairs 
for the remaining four years of conflict. 

On October 20th, 1861, Brigadier General 
Charles Pomeroy Stone and the Union forces 
under his command engaged the Confederate 
forces of Colonel Nathan Evans on the banks 
of the Potomac River near Leesburg, Virginia. 
Stone’s forces had crossed the river and were 
subsequently repelled and defeated by their 
Confederate counterparts. This battle was 
unique in American history because, as Union 
forces were withdrawing across the Potomac, 
Colonel Edward Baker, a sitting U.S. Senator, 
was killed in action. The defeat, coupled with 
Colonel Baker’s death, was the catalyst for the 
creation of the Congressional Joint Committee 
on the Conduct of the War. Colonel Baker remains 
the only United States Senator killed in 
battle, and Ball’s Bluff proved to be indicative 
of the long war to come. 

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join in 
recognizing the 155th Anniversary of the Bat


tle of Ball’s Bluff. We must always remember 
and honor those who sacrificed their lives to 
preserve our nation in its darkest hour. 

f 

HONORING JOHN DECICCO JR. 

HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL 

OF NEW YORK 

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to 
recognize a leader in our community, John 
DeCicco Jr. whose humanitarian work is being 
recognized by The Pelham Civic Association 
at their Annual Dinner Dance Gala. John is 
one of three honorees for ‘‘Persons of the 
Year’’ on November 4, 2016 in my district. 

John is the President and CEO of DeCicco 
& Sons Food Markets. He is a longtime volunteer 
member of the Pelham Civics, a major 
contributor to Pelham Civics ‘‘Needy Cases 
Program,’’ which provides food baskets for 
hundreds of needy families. He also spearheaded 
the Pelham Civics’ 75th Anniversary 
Dinner Dance Journal in 2014, raising over 
$12,000. 

John is known for his countless acts of altruism, 
philanthropy, and charity. He has 
worked with The Veterans of Foreign Wars, 
The Wounded Warriors, The Boy and Girl 
Scouts in an effort to support the community 
and those in need. He was the recipient of the 
2015 Rotary Club of the Pelhams Award for 
his work supporting children and families. 

John also works closely with career placement 
for special needs students, was a Past 
Advisory Board Member for the Fordham University 
Graduate School of Business Entrepreneurship, 
a former Junior Board Member for 
the Westchester Italian Cultural Center, Past 
President of the Pelham Chamber of Commerce, 
and has worked closely with Governor 
Cuomo, County Executive Rob Astorino, 
ConEdison, and NYSERDA in leading an effort 
to promote ‘‘GREEN Markets for the Future’’ 
the first of which was opened in 
Larchmont in December of 2015. The store, 
which is founded on the principle of being environmentally 
friendly, has received the EPA’s 
Green Chill Platinum Certification. 

John’s business, DeCicco & Sons, is also a 
long-time contributor to Pelham School PTAs, 
and was the recipient of the 2015 New York 
State PTA Congress ‘‘Golden Oak Award’’ for 
exemplary support of the school districts, 
PTAs and students. DeCiccos also received 
the 2015 Westchester’s Best Family-Owned 
Business Award, for continued commitment 
and active support to the communities in 
which they live and work, the 2016 Independent 
Green Business of the Year Award. 
John married Luisa DeCicco, Ph.D., another 
honoree, and have two children. 

It is an honor to present John with a CONGRESSIONAL 
RECORD at The Pelham Civic Association 
Annual Dinner Gala. I want to thank 
him for all he has done in the community and 
all he continues to do on behalf of Pelham. 
Congratulations to all honorees of the evening. 


Thursday, December 1, 2016 

Daily Digest 

HIGHLIGHTS 
See Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity. 

Senate 

Chamber Action 

Routine Proceedings, pages S6629–S6681 

Measures Introduced: Nine bills and two resolutions 
were introduced, as follows: S. 7–10, 
3489–3493, and S. Res. 627–628. Pages S6664–65 

Measures Reported: 

S. 3084, to invest in innovation through research 
and development, and to improve the competitiveness 
of the United States, with an amendment in the 
nature of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 114–389) 
S. 2201, to promote international trade, with an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute. Page S6663 
Measures Passed: 

Iran Sanctions Extension Act: By a unanimous 
vote of 99 yeas (Vote No. 155), Senate passed H.R. 
6297, to reauthorize the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. 

Page S6646 

Anti-Semitism Awareness Act: Senate passed S. 
10, to provide for the consideration of a definition 
of anti-Semitism for the enforcement of Federal anti-
discrimination laws concerning education programs 
or activities. Pages S6649–50 

Metropolitan Weather Hazards Protection Act: 
Senate passed S. 2058, to require the Secretary of 
Commerce to study the coverage gaps of the Next 
Generation Weather Radar of the National Weather 
Service and to develop a plan for improving radar 
coverage and hazardous weather detection and forecasting, 
after withdrawing the committee amendment 
in the nature of a substitute, and agreeing to 
the following amendments proposed thereto: 

Page S6679 

Sullivan (for Burr/Cantwell) Amendment No. 
5123, in the nature of a substitute. Pages S6679–80 

Sullivan (for Burr) Amendment No. 5124, to 
amend the title. Page S6680 

Airport Construction and Alteration Reform 
Act: Committee on Commerce, Science, and Trans


portation was discharged from further consideration 
of H.R. 6014, to allow the Administrator of the 
Federal Aviation Administration to enter into reimbursable 
agreements for certain airport projects, and 
the bill was then passed. Page S6680 

Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation 
Act: Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
was discharged from further consideration 
of H.R. 1561, to improve the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration’s weather research 
through a focused program of investment on affordable 
and attainable advances in observational, computing, 
and modeling capabilities to support substantial 
improvement in weather forecasting and prediction 
of high impact weather events, to expand 
commercial opportunities for the provision of weather 
data, and the bill was then passed, after taking 
action on the following amendments proposed thereto: 
Page S6680 

Adopted: 

Sullivan (for Cantwell) Amendment No. 5126 (to 
the language proposed by Amendment No. 5125), to 
authorize and strengthen the tsunami detection, forecast, 
warning, research, and mitigation program of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 
Page S6680 

Sullivan (for Thune/Nelson) Amendment No. 
5125, in the nature of a substitute. Page S6680 

Honoring the Memories of the Law Enforcement 
Officers in Baton Rouge: Committee on the Judiciary 
was discharged from further consideration of S. 
Res. 606, honoring the memories and legacies of the 
3 law enforcement officers who lost their lives in the 
attack on July 17, 2016, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, 
condemning that attack, and recognizing the heroism 
of law enforcement personnel and first responders, 
and the resolution was then agreed to. 

Page S6680 

Colonel Demas T. Craw VA Clinic: Senate 
passed S. 3492, to designate the Traverse City VA 

D1081 


D1082 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 1, 2016 

Community-Based Outpatient Clinic of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs in Traverse City, Michigan, 
as the ‘‘Colonel Demas T. Craw VA Clinic’’. 

Pages S6680–81 

National Phenylketonuria Awareness Day: Senate 
agreed to S. Res. 627, designating December 3, 
2016, as ‘‘National Phenylketonuria Awareness 
Day’’. Page S6681 

Authorizing the Printing of the Senate Rules 
and Manual: Senate agreed to S. Res. 628, authorizing 
the printing of a revised edition of the Senate 
Rules and Manual. Page S6681 

House Messages: 

Tsunami Warning, Education, and Research 
Act—Agreement: Senate began consideration of the 
amendment of the House to the amendment of the 
Senate to H.R. 34, to authorize and strengthen the 
tsunami detection, forecast, warning, research, and 
mitigation program of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, taking action on the following 
motions and amendments proposed thereto: 

Pages S6645–66, S6646–49, S6650–58 

Pending: 

McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of 
the House to the amendment of the Senate to the 
bill. Page S6645 

McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of 
the House to the amendment of the Senate to the 
bill, with McConnell Amendment No. 5117, to 
change the enactment date. Page S6646 

McConnell Amendment No. 5118 (to Amendment 
No. 5117), of a perfecting nature. Page S6646 

McConnell motion to refer the message of the 
House on the bill to the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions, with instructions, 
McConnell Amendment No. 5119, to change the enactment 
date. Page S6646 

McConnell Amendment No. 5120 (to the instructions 
(Amendment No. 5119) of the motion to 
refer), of a perfecting nature. Page S6646 

McConnell Amendment No. 5121 (to Amendment 
No. 5120), of a perfecting nature. Page S6646 

A motion was entered to close further debate on 
McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of 
the House to the amendment of the Senate to the 
bill, and, in accordance with the provisions of rule 
XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, and pursuant 
to the unanimous-consent agreement of Thursday, 
December 1, 2016, a vote on cloture will occur 
at 5:30 p.m., on Monday, December 5, 2016. 

Pages S6645–46 

A unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing 
that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday, 
December 5, 2016, Senate resume consideration of 
the message of the House to accompany the bill; and 

that the filing deadline for first-degree amendments 
under rule XXII be at 4 p.m. Page S6681 

Justice for All Reauthorization Act: Senate concurred 
in the amendment of the House to S. 2577, 
to protect crime victims’ rights, to eliminate the 
substantial backlog of DNA and other forensic evidence 
samples to improve and expand the forensic 
science testing capacity of Federal, State, and local 
crime laboratories, to increase research and development 
of new testing technologies, to develop new 
training programs regarding the collection and use 
of forensic evidence, to provide post-conviction testing 
of DNA evidence to exonerate the innocent, to 
support accreditation efforts of forensic science laboratories 
and medical examiner offices, to address 
training and equipment needs, to improve the performance 
of counsel in State capital cases. Page S6679 

Messages from the House: Pages S6660–61 
Executive Communications: Pages S6661–63 
Petitions and Memorials: Page S6663 
Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S6663–64 
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6665–66 

Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions: 

Pages S6666–67 

Additional Statements: Pages S6659–60 

Amendments Submitted: Pages S6667–79 

Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S6679 

Privileges of the Floor: Page S6679 
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today. 
(Total—155) Page S6646 

Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and 
adjourned at 6:07 p.m., until 3 p.m. on Monday, 
December 5, 2016. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks 
of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s 
Record on page S6681.) 

Committee Meetings 

(Committees not listed did not meet) 

BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on Armed Services: Committee ordered favorably 
reported 2,385 nominations in the Army, Navy, 
Air Force, and Marine Corps. 

LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP 

Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a 
hearing to examine the oversight, acquisition, testing, 
and employment of the Littoral Combat Ship 
(LCS) and LCS mission module programs, after receiving 
testimony from J. Michael Gilmore, Director 
of Operational Test and Evaluation, Sean J. Stackley, 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1083 

Assistant Secretary for Research, Development and 
Acquisition, Department of the Navy, Vice Admiral 
Thomas S. Rowden, USN, Commander, Naval Surface 
Forces, and Commander, Naval Surface Force, 
Pacific Fleet, all of the Department of Defense; and 
Paul L. Francis, Managing Director of Acquisition 
and Sourcing Management, Government Accountability 
Office. 

BUSINESS MEETING 

Committee on Finance: Committee ordered favorably 
reported the nominations of Charles P. Blahous, III, 
of Maryland, and Robert D. Reischauer, of Maryland, 
both to be a Member of the Board of Trustees 
of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, a 
Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-
Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, and a 
Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund. 

COUNTER-TERRORISM STRATEGY 

Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded 
a hearing to examine the future of counter-terrorism 

strategy, after receiving testimony from Juan C. 
Zarate, Financial Integrity Network, Washington, 
D.C.; and Daniel Benjamin, Dartmouth University 
John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding, 
Hanover, New Hampshire. 

RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD 

Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs: 
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal 
Management concluded a hearing to examine 
two Government Accountability Office reports regarding 
the renewable fuel standard, after receiving 
testimony from Frank Rusco, Director, Natural Resources 
and Environment, Government Accountability 
Office; and Janet McCabe, Acting Assistant 
Administrator, Office of Air and Radiation, Environmental 
Protection Agency. 

INTELLIGENCE 

Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in 
closed session to receive a briefing on certain intelligence 
matters from officials of the intelligence 
community. 

h 

House of Representatives 

Chamber Action 

Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 9 public 
bills, H.R. 6415–6423; and 3 resolutions, H.J. Res. 
104; and H. Con. Res. 177–178 were introduced. 

Pages H7118–19 

Additional Cosponsors: Page H7119 

Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today. 

Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he 
appointed Representative Bost to act as Speaker pro 
tempore for today. Page H7061 

Recess: The House recessed at 10:49 a.m. and reconvened 
at 12 noon. Page H7066 

Unanimous Consent Agreement: Agreed by unanimous 
consent that the question of adopting a motion 
to recommit on H.R. 6392 may be subject to 
postponement as though under clause 8 of rule 20. 

Page H7074 

Unanimous Consent Agreement: Agreed by unanimous 
consent that the question of adopting a motion 
to recommit on H. Res. 933 may be subject to 
postponement as though under clause 8 of rule 20. 

Page H7086 

Recess: The House recessed at 3:54 p.m. and reconvened 
at 5:10 p.m. Page H7096 

Providing amounts for further expenses of the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce: The House 
agreed to H. Res. 933, providing amounts for further 
expenses of the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
in the One Hundred Fourteenth Congress, by 
a recorded vote of 234 ayes to 181 noes, Roll No. 
595, after the previous question was ordered by a 
yea-and-nay vote of 235 yeas to 177 nays, Roll No. 
594. Pages H7086–95, H7096–97 

National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2017—Rule for consideration: The House 
agreed to H. Res. 937, providing for consideration 
of the conference report to accompany the bill (S. 
2943) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 
2017 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, and to prescribe 
military personnel strengths for such fiscal 
year, by a recorded vote of 277 ayes to 139 noes, 
Roll No. 597, after the previous question was ordered 
by a yea-and-nay vote of 235 yeas to 180 nays, 
Roll No. 596. Pages H7069–74, H7097–98 


D1084 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 1, 2016 

Systemic Risk Designation Improvement Act of 
2016: The House passed H.R. 6392, to amend the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 
Act to specify when bank holding companies 
may be subject to certain enhanced supervision, by 
a yea-and-nay vote of 254 yeas to 161 nays, Roll 
No. 599. Pages H7074–86, H7098–H7100 

Rejected the Maxine Waters (CA) motion to recommit 
the bill to the Committee on Financial Services 
with instructions to report the same back to the 
House forthwith with an amendment, by a yea-and-
nay vote of 178 yeas to 236 nays, Roll No. 598. 

Pages H7084–86, H7098–99 

Agreed to: 
Davidson amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of 

H. Rept. 114–839) that prohibits the use of international 
standards not specifically provided in the 
bill. Pages H7083–84 
H. Res. 934, the rule providing for consideration 
of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 34) and 
providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 6392) 
was agreed to yesterday, November 30th. 
Protection of the Right of Tribes to stop the Export 
of Cultural and Traditional Patrimony Resolution: 
The House agreed to take from the Speaker’s 
table and concur in the Senate amendments to 

H. Con. Res. 122, supporting efforts to stop the 
theft, illegal possession or sale, transfer, and export 
of tribal cultural items of American Indians, Alaska 
Natives, and Native Hawaiians in the United States 
and internationally. Page H7100 
Senate Messages: Messages received from the Senate 
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the 
House today appear on pages H7069 and H7096. 

Senate Referrals: S. 2971 was referred to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure. S. 3183 
was held at the desk. S. 3386 was held at the desk. 

Page H7117 

Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes and 
two recorded votes developed during the proceedings 
of today and appear on pages H7096, H7097, 
H7097–98, H7098, H7098–99, H7099–H7100. 
There were no quorum calls. 

Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and adjourned 
at 8:55 p.m. 

Committee Meetings 

FORCE MANAGEMENT LEVELS IN IRAQ 
AND AFGHANISTAN; READINESS AND 
STRATEGIC CONSIDERATIONS 

Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Oversight 
and Investigations held a hearing entitled 
‘‘Force Management Levels in Iraq and Afghanistan; 

Readiness and Strategic Considerations’’. Testimony 
was heard from Cary B. Russell, Director, Military 
Operations and Warfighter Support, Government 
Accountability Office; General Carter Ham, U.S. 
Army (Retired); and Lieutenant General Jim Dubik, 

U.S. Army (Retired). 
EXAMINING SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND 
GENDER DISCRIMINATION AT THE U.S. 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 

Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: Full 
Committee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Sexual 
Harassment and Gender Discrimination at the 

U.S. Department of Agriculture’’. Testimony was 
heard from the following Department of Agriculture 
officials: Joe Leonard, Jr., Assistant Secretary for 
Civil Rights; Lenise Lago, Deputy Chief, Business 
Operations, U.S. Forest Service; and Denise Rice, 
Fire Prevention Technician, Region 5 Eldorado National 
Forest, U.S. Forest Service; and a public witness. 
RESTORING THE POWER OF THE PURSE: 
LEGISLATIVE OPTIONS 

Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: Subcommittee 
on Government Operations; and Subcommittee 
on Health Care, Benefits and Administrative 
Rules, held a joint hearing entitled ‘‘Restoring 
the Power of the Purse: Legislative Options’’. Testimony 
was heard from Heather Krause, Acting Director, 
Strategic Issues, Government Accountability Office; 
and public witnesses. 

BUSINESS MEETING 

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Committee 
held a business meeting to consider an access 
request. The request for access was granted. The 
committee also adopted its Activity Report for the 
114th Congress. This meeting was closed. 

Joint Meetings

No joint committee meetings were held. 

f 

COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY, 
DECEMBER 2, 2016 

(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated) 

Senate 

No meetings/hearings scheduled. 

House 

Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Subcommittee 
on Government Operations; and Subcommittee 
on Transportation and Public Assets, joint 
hearing entitled ‘‘A SafeTrack?: Oversight of WMATA’s 
Safety and Maintenance’’, 9 a.m., 2154 Rayburn. 


December 1, 2016 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1085 

Re´sume´ of Congressional Activity 

SECOND SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED FOURTEENTH CONGRESS 

The first table gives a comprehensive re´sume´ of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House. 
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation. 

DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY 

January 4 through November 30, 2016 

Senate House Total 
Days in session .................................... 151 117 . . 
Time in session ................................... 723 hrs., 42' 592 hrs., 15' .. 
Congressional Record: 
Pages of proceedings ................... 6,628 7,059 . . 
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 1,556 . . 
Public bills enacted into law ............... 47 86 133 
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . . 
Bills in conference ............................... 3 3 . . 
Measures passed, total ......................... 404 597 1,001 
Senate bills .................................. 81 58 . . 
House bills .................................. 94 415 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 1 . . 
House joint resolutions ............... 1 1 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 12 7 . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... 12 24 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 203 91 . . 
Measures reported, total ...................... *296 452 748 
Senate bills .................................. 218 10 . . 
House bills .................................. 45 372 . . 
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . . 
House joint resolutions ............... . . 2 . . 
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 4 . . . . 
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 5 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 29 63 . . 
Special reports ..................................... 10 4 . . 
Conference reports ............................... 2 3 . . 
Measures pending on calendar ............. 453 117 . . 
Measures introduced, total .................. 1,385 2,562 3,947 
Bills ............................................. 1,057 2,102 . . 
Joint resolutions .......................... 13 24 . . 
Concurrent resolutions ................ 31 71 . . 
Simple resolutions ....................... 284 365 . . 
Quorum calls ....................................... . . 1 . . 
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 154 251 . . 
Recorded votes .................................... . . 341 . . 
Bills vetoed ......................................... 2 3 . . 
Vetoes overridden ................................ 1 1 . . 

* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accompanying 
report. A total of 189 written reports have been filed in the Senate, 
459 reports have been filed in the House. 
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS 

January 4 through November 30, 2016 
Civilian nominations, totaling 350 (including 181 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 
82 
256 
12 
Other Civilian nominations, totaling 2,412 (including 97 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 
1,401 
1,010 
1 
Air Force nominations, totaling 7,505 (including 181 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
5,407 
2,098 
Army nominations, totaling 5,894 (including 1,740 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
5,646 
248 
Navy nominations, totaling 4,408 (including 5 nominations carried 
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 
4,338 
68 
2 
Marine Corps nominations, totaling 1,246 (including 3 nominations 
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows: 
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 
1,243 
3 
Summary 
Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 
Total nominations received this Session ................................................ 
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 
2,207 
19,608 
18,117 
3,683 
15 
0 


D1086 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST December 1, 2016 

Next Meeting of the SENATE 

3 p.m., Monday, December 5 

Senate Chamber 

Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration 
of the message of the House to accompany H.R. 34, Tsunami 
Warning, Education, and Research Act (the legislative 
vehicle for 21st Century Cures Act), and vote on the 
motion to invoke cloture on the motion to concur in the 
amendment of the House to the amendment of the Senate 
to the bill at 5:30 p.m. The filing deadline for first-degree 
amendments to the message of the House to accompany 
the bill is at 4 p.m. 

Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
9 a.m., Friday, December 2 

House Chamber 
Program for Friday: Consideration of the conference report 
to accompany S. 2943—National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2017. 

Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue 

HOUSE Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E1560, E1562, E1563, E1565, Lieu, Ted, Calif., E1570 
E1565, E1567, E1569, E1570, E1571, E1572 Marchant, Kenny, Tex., E1564 
Barletta, Lou, Pa., E1564, E1567 Farr, Sam, Calif., E1559 McCollum, Betty, Minn., E1561 
Brooks, Mo, Ala., E1558 Frankel, Lois, Fla., E1565 McGovern, James P., Mass., E1560 
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E1564 Goodlatte, Bob, Va., E1560 McMorris Rodgers, Cathy, Wash., E1563 
Butterfield, G.K., N.C., E1568 Hahn, Janice, Calif., E1565 Miller, Jeff, Fla., E1559 
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E1569 Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E1563 Moore, Gwen, Wisc., E1557 
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E1563 Himes, James A., Conn., E1559 Neugebauer, Randy, Tex., E1558 
Collins, Doug, Ga., E1567 Hoyer, Steny H., Md., E1566 Peterson, Collin C., Minn., E1557 
Comstock, Barbara, Va., E1564, E1565, E1568, E1569, Hurt, Robert, Va., E1571 Poe, Ted, Tex., E1570 
E1571, E1572 Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E1561 Rohrabacher, Dana, Calif., E1562 
Cooper, Jim, Tenn., E1569 LaMalfa, Doug, Calif., E1558 Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E1571 
Crenshaw, Ander, Fla., E1558 Levin, Sander M., Mich., E1560 Scott, Robert C. ‘‘Bobby’’, Va., E1568 

Congressional Record 
Congressional Record
UNUMEPLURIBUS
The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage 
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House 
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are 
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United 
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when 
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through 
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.fdsys.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the 
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. 
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S. 
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO 
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made 
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following 
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents 
in individual parts or by sets. ¶With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from 
the Congressional Record. 
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office, 
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received. 


